We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 76 THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n Law enforcement 
is on the lookout for 
motorists who don’t 
buckle their seat-
belts. A nationwide  
Click It or Ticket 
campaign started 
Tuesday. Read the 
story on page 5. Putnam County woman dies in house ﬁ  re
FLORAHOME, Fla. (AP) — An elderly woman died in 
a ﬁ  re at her north Florida home.
Putnam County ﬁ  re ofﬁ  cials say rescuers responded to 
the home early Wednesday morning. Damage was so ex-
tensive that a cause for the ﬁ  re couldn’t be determined, but foul play wasn’t suspected.
Authorities didn’t immediately identify the 90-year-
old woman.
The home was a complete loss. No other injuries were 
reported.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
n  Coach Roland 
Thornqvist and the 
Gators women’s 
tennis team 
captured an NCAA 
Championship on 
Tuesday, defeating 
Stanford in dra-
matic fashion.
See Story, Page 18Sunny
92/69FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12CROSSWORD 17SPORTS 18   
Dear Readers,
As you are probably aware, the university 
has installed black, university-owned mod-
ular units for the distribution of various 
publications, including The Independent Florida Alligator, at some locations on campus. 
  These units were recently put in place as part 
of the university’s goal to increase campus safety, promote sustainability and bolster campus aes-
thetics. We acknowledge that these types of units 
have become common across the country, includ-ing at other universities. 
  As a result, some of our iconic orange and blue 
racks have been removed from campus in an effort 
to comply with the university’s plans. 
  While the Alligator appreciates and supports 
the aforementioned goals, we object to the removal of our racks from campus. 
  We feel such a move harms our ability to reach 
the widest campus audience possible, which is 
our primary goal: Every person on campus should have easy access to a copy of the Alligator. We are 
a free student-produced publication that survives 
on slim revenue from advertisers. This new form 
of distribution, we feel, could hurt our ability to 
effectively reach an audience that would continue to satisfy our advertisers.
  Currently, we are in discussion to reach a solu-
tion that suits both us and UF. We have full faith 
that we can reach a solution that is favorable for 
both parties. We view the university as a partner, 
not an opponent, in this matter. 
  We ask for your support. It is because of you, 
the readers, that we exist. Our daily labor is to pro-vide you with the best and most thorough news 
possible.  
  We want to respect the process. As we continue 
to work and cooperate with the university, we will 
keep you informed. 
  Thank you for your continued support. As al-
ways, we assure you that we will never lose sight 
of our mission: to serve the campus community, 
which has helped us become the largest indepen-
dent, student-run newspaper in the United States.
  
  Sincerely,    C.J. Pruner, Editor-in-Chief
  Joey Flechas, Managing Editor Letter from the Editors
  By EMILY MORROW 
and JOEY FLECHAS
 Alligator Writers
 
  Student Government’s minority 
party is once again facing reorganiza-
tion.
  Progress Party ofﬁ  cials were noti-
ﬁ  ed in a March 1 email that the party was “suspended from using the name ‘Progress’ or likeness for the Fall 2011 
election cycle” for distributing fake 
“SG I Voted” stickers.  The 11 Progress Party senators 
retain their seats in Student Senate, 
and are considered 
members of an in-dependent caucus 
within Senate, rath-
er than a party.
  The complaint 
was ﬁ  led speciﬁ  -cally against Sagar Sane, the former 
vice presidential candidate for the Stu-dent Alliance Party prior to that par-ty’s merger with the Progress Party.
  According to Georgia Buckhal-
ter, chair of the ﬁ  ve-person elections commission, Sane was identiﬁ  ed as a member of the Progress Party in a 
statement he submitted to the elec-
tions commission prior to a late Febru-ary hearing  where the complaint was 
addressed.
  “He explicitly identiﬁ  ed that he 
was in the party,” Buckhalter said.
  She said the Progress Party was  Progress Party suspended
 Bryan Doolin / Alligator 
   Ramses, 12 weeks old, is held up at a spay-neuter clinic, located at 4205 NW Sixth St., on Wednesday. Ramses 
was one of 46 cats to be adopted during Tom-A-Thon, a project of No More Homeless Pets’ Operation PetSnip. 
UF STUDENT GOVERNMENT
  By DANIELA GUZMAN
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Ramses rode home in his cat carrier on Wednesday 
afternoon, slightly dazed from post-surgery medication. 
He was one of 46 cats to be ﬁ  xed at the Tom-A-Thon, 
a project of No More Homeless Pets’ Operation PetSnip 
held Wednesday.
  As part of the event, the clinic offered a complimenta-
ry rabies shot with each surgery and cut the price of neu-tering in half for each additional male cat, also known as 
a “tomcat.”
  The “high-volume, high-quality” spay-neuter clinic, 
located at 4205 NW Sixth St., is a product of 
No More Homeless Pets in Alachua Coun-
ty. The project began more than a year ago 
to provide an affordable way to ﬁ  x cats and 
dogs in the community. The clinic, based by appointments,  Program helps pets get ﬁ  xedSane
NewsLocal
SEE PROGRESS, PAGE 5
SEE PETS, PAGE 5News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 76 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, 
  aorlando@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simontom, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Brittany Fink, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Claire Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stevens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
PARTLY
CLOUDY
90/68PARTLY
CLOUDY
90/69THUNDER
STORMS
91/69THUNDER
STORMS
92/69SUNNY
92/69
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.NATIONAL
Elma, Wash., dairy princess 
is lactose intolerant 
ELMA, Wash. — Laurel Gor -
don of Washington state has been 
putting on a tiara to promote milk products the past two years as Grays Harbor County’s dairy am-
bassador.
The funny thing is, the 18-year-
old from Elma is a lactose intoler -
ant dairy princess.
The Daily World of Aberdeen 
reports that unless Gordon takes 
special pills, her body is unable to digest milk, so she drinks soy milk.
But her family operates a dairy 
farm that has been in the family for 150 years, and she believes in the product.
She’s competing for the Wash-
ington state dairy ambassador title in June.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Maine man arrested after 
‘pocket dialing’ 911 
BANGOR, Maine — Police in 
Maine say a man wanted for fail-
ing to pay fines accidentally helped officers find him when he repeat-edly “pocket dialed” 911 while do-ing yard work.
Police say 29-year-old James 
Green was using a backpack leaf blower in Bangor Saturday when he kept calling 911 without realiz-ing it.
Police Lt. Jeff Millard says offi-
cers were able to determine where the calls were coming from by tri-angulating the signal from Green’s phone.
The Bangor Daily News says 
there were two active warrants for Green’s arrest for failure to pay fines.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Ga. police: upset council -
man spills food at diner 
WARNER ROBINS, Ga.  — Po-
lice say a city councilman in Geor -
gia lost his cool at a Waffle House and smothered and covered a city official with food during an argu-ment.
A police report says 72-year-old 
Warner Robins Councilman John 
Williams spilled food, coffee and 
water on Tony Robbins on Mon-day morning during an argument over parking. Robbins is chairman of the downtown development au-thority.
The councilman told WMAZ-
TV that it was an accident and he did nothing wrong. 
Robbins told the Telegraph of 
Macon that the councilman lifted up his placemat, and the food and drinks spilled all over him.
Authorities in the central Geor -
gia town have referred the case to a judge. No one has been arrested.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
STATE
Dad says girl tried to poison 
him before her death 
MIAMI — A Miami father 
charged with killing his 10-year-
old daughter told authorities the girl tried to poison him by putting baby oil in his soda.said Anthony’s demeanor never 
suggested anything was wrong. 
She would cook, clean and help out around the apartment, they said.
“She was a regular 22-year-old 
girl,” said Cameron Campana, a club promoter who was a college student at the time. “Peppy. She seemed normal.”
Another roommate, Nathan 
Lezniewicz, said Anthony liked going out and having a good time.
“She was not an introvert by 
any means,” he said.
Lazzaro echoed their senti-
ments and also identified Anthony in several nightclub party photos, 
including a “hard body contest” in 
which Anthony danced in a short skirt. 
Prosecutors also showed jurors 
surveillance videos of Anthony and Lazarro going to the video store and shopping at JC Penny after the time Caylee was believed to be missing.
“She was the way she was ev-
ery day — happy,” Lazarro said.
Defense attorney Jose Baez got 
Lazzaro to describe more tender moments between the mother and daughter, including Anthony us-ing educational “flash cards.”
Anthony also once became 
startled and scolded her daughter 
for getting too close to the edge of 
the pool at Lazzaro’s apartment complex, he said.
Maria Kissh, a girlfriend of one 
of the roommates, described rid-ing in Anthony’s car along with her roommates. Under question-ing by Anthony’s attorney, she said neither she nor any of the oth-
er passengers smelled any odor.
Prosecutors have said they be-
lieve Caylee’s decaying body had 
been stored there, and the girl’s grandparents noticed a foul odor when they picked up the car from a towing lot.
Prosecutors also called two 
women who worked at a night-
club where Casey helped Lazzaro 
promote parties. They both said that she helped coordinate and manage “shot girls,” special wait-resses who sold shots of alcohol to patrons.
Prosecutors said in opening 
statements that Caylee was last seen by her grandfather on June 
16. Anthony waited a month be-
fore telling her mother Caylee had disappeared. 
Anthony’s attorney claimed 
the toddler drowned and the girl’s grandfather helped cover up the accident.
 — THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAccording to documents re-
leased Wednesday, Jorge Bara-hona told police Nubia died at his Miami home in February , but didn’t say how. 
 He said he gave Nubia and 
her twin brother medicine to sedate them in the days before the twins were discovered in his truck alongside a busy highway.
Nubia’s naked body was in 
the fetal position, drenched in a toxic chemical. Her brother Vic-tor, who survived, is recovering 
from severe burns.
Jorge and Carmen Barahona 
have pleaded not guilty to first-
degree murder and abuse and neglect charges.
Police took carpet samples 
and a bloody shirt from the couple’s Miami home, where the twins were allegedly abused for 
months.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Anthony trial: Attorneys paint two sides of mother 
ORLANDO — The mother 
accused of killing her 2-year-
old daughter was a party girl who promoted events at Florida nightclubs, though at times she 
was also an attentive, devoted 
parent, witnesses testifying at her murder trial said Wednes-day.
The prosecution and defense 
offered jurors strikingly differ -
ent portrayals of what Casey Anthony was doing in the days immediately after her daughter 
Caylee was last seen alive.
Anthony , 25, is charged with 
first-degree murder. Prosecutors 
said Caylee died from three piec-es of duct tape being placed over her mouth and nose, while An-thony’s attorney has claimed the toddler accidentally drowned in her grandparents’ pool.
Caylee was last seen June 16, 
2008. One of the grandparents’ neighbors, Brian Burner, testi-fied that Anthony asked him two days later if she could bor -
row a shovel to “dig up a bam-boo root.” 
She returned the shovel about 
an hour later, he said.
Burner also said he remem-
bered seeing Anthony’s white car backed into the garage on the night of June 16.
About a month before that, 
Anthony met Tony Lazzaro dur -
ing a party . They soon became romantically involved and she moved into an apartment he was 
sharing with four other people.
Lazzaro and his ex-room-
mates testified that they met An-
thony’s daughter several times and then at some point in early June, they never saw her again.
When they asked about Cay-
lee, her mother told them she was with her nanny at a theme 
park or going to the beach.
Lazzaro and the roommates MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
One fish, two fish, red fish … dead 
fish?
It may not be the traditional 
rhyme, but it’s the accurate one when 
it comes to describing southwest 
Gainesville.
The recent sun and high tempera-
tures are killing fish in Bivens Arm 
Lake.
Alachua County Environmental 
Protection Director Chris Bird said prolonged sun and high tempera-tures raise the lake’s temperature and reduce oxygen in the water. 
Weather.com reports southwest 
Gainesville has had five completely sunny days so far in May. The aver -
age high temperature has been about 89 degrees.
“Bivens Arm is the most vulner -
able area lake to ‘heat stress’ fish kills because it is very shallow and prone to algal blooms, which further reduce 
dissolved oxygen levels,” Bird said.
He also said Bivens Arm Lake is 
polluted from urban runoff and dirt 
that come through the Tumblin Creek watershed.
New construction causes a net im-
provement to the watershed because it brings better storm water treat-ment basins. 
Most of the buildings in down-
town Gainesville and on University 
Avenue, Bird said, do not have up-
dated treatment.
“That lake has decades of muck 
that’s built up in it,” he said. 
The combination of these factors 
has been killing gizzard shad, catfish and bream.
Although Bivens Arm Lake isn’t 
known as a fishing spot, Bird said lo-
cals will probably take advantage of 
the fish kill. 
He expects to see turkey vultures 
and alligators migrating to the area to clear out the dead fish. n ONE PARTICIPANT ATE 48
By KIMBERLY LINTON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hot wings, a packed crowd and 
the spirit of friendly competition sparked excitement Tuesday night at the inaugural Gainesville Chick-en Wing Bowl Eating Contest ben-efiting the Child Advocacy Center.
The CAC is a local non-profit 
that serves neglected and abused 
children. 
Team Dynamo and Bosshardt 
Companies put on the event, held 
at Gator’s Dockside Restaurant. 
The wing bowl provided a 
family-friendly atmosphere full of wings, raffle ticket prizes and a clown for the children.
Eight teams participated in 
the contest. Among those, the Gainesville Firefighters were matched against the Alachua County Firefighters.  
“We want to make sure all the 
kids have what they need,” said Kevin Gutierrez, a contest par -
ticipant and firefighter for the Gainesville Fire Rescue Depart-
ment. Each contestant had to raise a 
minimum of $100 to participate. 
Teams were given $20 tickets to sell before the event. The contest con-sisted of two rounds, each lasting five minutes. 
Former UF football player Shan-
non Snell, 29, set the record for the competition in the first round after 
devouring 48 chicken wings.
Supporters yelled his nickname, 
“Big Boss,” from the crowd as he 
chowed down on his wings. 
Contestant Owen Anderson, a 
20-year-old Santa Fe College student and member of the Stu-dent Maid team, said 
he didn’t have a technique at first. 
After a while, he started eating 
less and almost threw up during the last 30 seconds. 
Alex Lopez, a firefighter for the 
Gainesville Fire Rescue Depart-ment, came away with the only injury in the competition as he burned his fingers on the wings.
Lopez, who ate 27 wings, 
soothed his tender fingertips with ointment after the contest and said he could have eaten more if the wings were not so hot.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011
Chris Watkins / Alligator
An unidentified man, holds an umbrella while fishing at Bivens Arm Lake. A num-
ber of fish have died due to high temperatures and prolonged sun exposure.
Where gluttons win glory: locals eat wings for charity
By MICHAEL SYKES
Alligator Contributing Writer
Memorial Day weekend will honor local vet-
eran U.S. Army Pvt. Lamarol J. Tucker, 26, who was 
killed in Afghanistan last week.
Tucker, of Gainesville, was killed May 16 from 
wounds suffered when insurgents attacked his unit 
using an improvised explosive device in Zabul 
province, Afghanistan, according to Maj. Bill Cop-pernoll, U.S. Army Alaska Public Affairs Officer. Tucker’s unit was conducting a mounted patrol when it was attacked.
According to the Alachua County Sherrif’s Of-
fice, Tucker’s body will be arriving in Gainesville  by private jet at about 10:30 a.m. today. There will 
be a procession starting from 
Gainesville Regional Airport 
and will end at Chestnut Fu-neral Home, 18 NW 8th Ave.  Residents are encouraged to line 
the route to pay respect to Pvt. Tucker.
Funeral services will take 
place Saturday at Passage Fam-ily Church, 2020 NE 15th St.
Memorial Day , which will be observed Monday , 
is the day for remembering those like Tucker who have died serving the United States, said retired Sgt. Maj. Major J. Stroup, director of Alachua Coun-ty V eterans Services. 
Civilians get mixed up and use the day as a rea-
son to celebrate life rather than to reflect and mourn all the lives that have been lost, he said. 
“People have to remember that there is still a 
war going on out there,” he said.  “We’re still losing people.”Fallen soldier 
to be honored this weekendNewsLocal
Sun rays guilty in slaying of fish in lakeLOCALAlex Orlando / Alligator
Former UF football player Shannon Snell, 29, right, set a new record of 48 wings at the Gainesville Wing 
Bowl Chicken Wing Eating Contest on Tuesday night at Gator’s Dockside. 
Tucker
By JASMINE EARLS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Motorists can expect to see law 
enforcement officers in Alachua 
County cracking down on seat belt 
violations as the National High-way Safety Administration kicks off its nationwide Click It or Ticket campaign this month.
The campaign, which began on 
Tuesday and is scheduled to go un-til June 5, is a law enforcement ini-tiative to increase seat belt usage, 
raise awareness and save lives. 
For front-seat seat belt viola-
tions, operators or passengers can 
be cited with a $104 ticket, while overlooking child safety belt laws 
can earn a driver a $154 ticket.
Cpl. Tscharna Senn, public in-
formation officer for Gainesville 
Police Department, said the Click It or Ticket campaign has been ef-fective in increasing seat belt usage 
in Alachua County in the past.
“Issuing these citations has 
curbed safety belt violations,” Senn 
said. “It’s been proven to work, 
and that’s why we do it.”
UPD officer David Watson said 
officers have heard nearly every 
excuse for not wearing seat belts.
“People say they’re uncomfort-
able, they were in a hurry or they forgot to put it on, but that doesn’t stop us from enforcing the law,” he said.
Watson added that people must 
understand seat belt violations aren’t only for the driver, but also for those in the passenger seat.
Those over the age of 18 and 
sitting in the back seat are not re-quired by law to wear a seat belt. Watson said. 
“But I must say, it will save 
your life,” he said 
According to statistics from a 
press release by GPD, 77 percent of those who were thrown from 
a vehicle during car crashes were killed, whereas only 1 percent of 
those wearing a seat belt during a crash were totally ejected from 
their vehicle.
UPD officers are hoping this 
year’s Click It or Ticket initiative 
will prove as effective as previous 
years.
UPD officer William Sasser said 
seat belt usage percentages are 
already high in Alachua County and the Click It or Ticket initiative should only boost seat belt usage.
“Pre-surveys showed that seat 
belt usage was 89 percent, so we’re 
hoping post-surveys will show that 
enforcement pushed the percent-ages well into the 90s,” he said. 
, To determine seat belt usage 
percentages during the campaign 
pre-surveys, UPD officers log 
seat belt usage for 100 drivers in Gainesville.
After the data is collected for the Click It or Ticket campaign, all information is sent to the Depart-ment of Transportation.
Sasser said the Click It or Ticket 
campaign is widely known across campus.
Many people, he said,  already 
know to wear their safety belts.
“The word is out, and it seems 
as if everyone is wearing their seat belt, but that’s what we prefer,” he said. “We don’t want to have to stop anyone if we don’t have to.”
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Jasmine Earls / Alligator
UPD officer William Sasser performs a traffic stop for a seat belt violation outside Shands Wednesday afternoon. Tickets for seat belt viola -
tions can range from $104 to $154.Drivers beware: “click it or ticket” has returned
notified of the hearing, where members would 
have the opportunity to refute any claims of 
misconduct. 
In determining whether a penalty is neces-
sary, she said, the commission could only use the complaint and any evidence and statements 
put before them at the hearing.
No Progress Party members attended the 
hearing.
The distribution of the stickers violates two 
SG Election Codes — one that states that the 
Supervisor of Elections has the exclusive right 
to the distribution of material indicating a stu-dent has already voted, and another that states 
that no representative of a political party may 
misrepresent material as belonging to the Su-pervisor of Elections.
“They tampered with the integrity of the 
election cycle,” Buckhalter said.
Schneider called the Election Commission’s actions “egregious” and said he doubts the rul-ing will stand against a planned appeal to the 
UF Supreme Court of the Student Body as Sane 
is no longer a UF student.
Members of the former Progress Party will 
start organizing another minority party for the fall election season.
“The Unite Party dealt these people a huge 
disadvantage,” Schneider said. “Whatever new party forms in the fall is going to take the ma-
jority party to task for si-
lencing its critics.” 
Senate President Ben 
Meyers, though not in-volved in the hearing, said 
he hopes the students who were a part of the 
former Progress Party will not be deterred from 
working with Student Government.
“There are a lot of hardworking people in 
the Progress Party,” Meyers said. “I hope they’ll continue to stay a part of the conversation in 
helping to make UF a better place.”Schneider: There will be an appeal 
PROGRESS , from page 1About 6,500 local pets 
have been sterilized
usually charges $40 for cats and 
$60 for their canine counterparts.  
Sandi Richmond, executive director 
of No More Homeless Pets, said the 
number of surgeries performed at the event was equivalent to saving more than 8,000 potential offspring.  
“It is a national crisis situation,” said Richmond, who spearheaded the effort to prevent illness and overpopulation.
Owners waited outside the 
doors of the clinic for their pets after hearing a speech about how to treat cats recovering from these surgeries.
Kelly Barr took Ramses, an an-
niversary gift from her husband, to the clinic on Wednesday. She also took home four other kittens that received treatment at the No More Homeless Pets facility.
“I don’t know what I would 
have done otherwise,” Barr said.
So far, Operation PetSnip has 
sterilized about 6,500 pets locally. The Gainesville clinic has a grant from the state Department of Mo-
tor Vehicles that allowed free ster -
ilization for 500 pets whose owners 
lived in Alachua County and re-ceived government aid. There are 
20 available spaces for dogs before 
the grant expires in July.  For more information, call 352-376 6647 or visit nmhp.net.PETS , from page 1
“It is a national crisis situa -
tion.”
Sandi Richmond
Exec. Director of No More Home -
less Pets
StudentGovernmentNationwide campaign began Tuesday
“We don’t want to have 
to stop anyone if we don’t 
have to.”
William Sasser 
UPD officerThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
Today’s question: Do you wear a seat belt when you drive?
27 TOTAL VOTES52% YES48% NOTuesday’s question: Have you taken the SERU survey yet?Wanted:
A viable minority party that 
actually inspires students
Another day, another Student-Government-wants-to-
quash-the-opposition-claim. 
Progress Party officials are calling foul at the elec-
tions commission’s decision to ban the party from the fall 
election cycle.
An apparently loosely-affiliated member of the Progress 
Party decided it would be a good idea to pass out “I voted” 
stickers to people who hadn’t voted. The idea is that this kind 
of activity suppresses voter turnout. 
Well of course that’s the problem! That’s what’s  keeping 
the overwhelming majority of eligible student voters out of the polls every semester.
It’s not like the oft-requested and oft-denied change to on-
line voting has anything to with it. It obviously has nothing 
to do with how Student Government is more concerned with 
inside baseball than getting things done for students.
Listen, we understand that rules are rules. But when it 
comes to low voter turnout in SG elections,  “I voted” stick-ers probably aren’t the problem.
Party politics often mire what should be an overall pro-
ductive and fruitful experience in college — participation in student government. 
It is true that much of the infighting and bickering that 
used to plague Student Senate’s chambers during never-end-
ing meetings has subsided. 
Unfortunately, this is mostly due to the lack of a viable op-
posing party as fewer student senators hail from a minority 
party. Although the minority party, then called the Student 
Alliance, did make gains last spring, it only took months be-fore the “alliance” fractured into two weaker groups. 
A full range of opinions is necessary for any good govern-
ment to work. It’s hard to believe that students find it ap-pealing when one overwhelming force dominates campus 
politics.
 And for those ready to lament the conspiracy to 
keep Greeks in power,  UF’s own Ralph Lauren Illuminati, 
we don’t think any instituion could get away with that if there was a healthy opposing force. Rather, we think apathy is more to blame. 
But it doesn’t have to be that way. More organization and 
less petty posturing would go a long way for any minority group wanting to get going in SG.
In the case of the Progress Party’s sticky situation, the five-
person elections commission worked within the framework 
of what they are charged to do. No Progress Party members 
showed up for the hearing, so no defense against the com -
plaint was presented. Even if the sticker-hawker was not a tried-and-true member of the party, someone should have at least been present to make that case. 
Before slamming the Unite Party, Progress members have 
to know that in order to get anything done in any kind of 
government, adherence to predetermined policies is crucial.
At the same time, it’s a step in the wrong direction when 
a situation like this leads to the elimination of the opposition, 
even if only in name.
We are sure that even though the name “Progress”  has 
been laid to rest for at least the fall, we all know who Super Dave Schneider and Co. are and what they’re about.
Perhaps this is an opportunity to forge a serious alterna-
tive to Unite Party. Maybe we can actually have incentive to elect a balanced set of Senators come fall.
It would at least make our job covering ya’ll enjoyable.As orchestra plays, U.S. economy sinks
Iceberg dead ahead! Sound the alarm! Turn before it’s too 
late!
Sometime last week, the U.S. government reached 
its $14.3 trillion debt limit, the legal amount it’s allowed to borrow. Democrats wish to raise the limit, but Republicans 
want spending cuts in exchange. Many are clamoring that 
not raising the debt ceiling will cause the U.S. to default and choke on its debt, plunging the world into the Middle Ages. 
I, however, implore Congress to vote against raising the 
debt limit. It should not give in to the false choices of the Obama Administration and the media. In 2008, when the sky was falling, Washington claimed that passing an almost trillion dollar bailout was imperative. Three years later, our economy is still in the gutter. Ask any of your friends who 
have recently graduated.
Part of the problem is the prevailing economic philoso-
phy . The people in power subscribe to the Keynesian school 
of thought, the idea that when demand is low, the govern-ment should spend money to create artificial demand thus preventing a slowdown of the economy. The problem is that Keynesianism is ultimately unsustainable. Constant spend-ing to bandage the limping economy leads to deficits and debt. Capitalism is natural selection in the economy, and 
government interference is its antithesis. 
We are also part of the problem. The average voter has 
consistently opposed tax increases, yet yearned for more 
social services. We hold dear to programs that are now un-sustainable, such as Social Security . We must stop vacillating and choose between more government or less government. Judging from the excesses of Washington, I’d prefer less government.
The swampy culture of Washington is also an obstacle. 
No politician will vote to cut money headed to his constitu-ency. Politicians in power also believe in incrementalism, that is, the mindset that budgets should incrementally increase each year, without a thorough auditing of the books. Some departments quickly and drunkenly spend their remaining budgets before the end of each fiscal year to ensure they receive even more money the next.
America has both revenue and 
spending problems. The Great Re-cession killed jobs and business prof-its that the government could have taxed. According to the Congressio-
nal Budget Office, federal spending has increased by almost $2 trillion in the last decade. The coupling of those has lead to trillion dollar deficits. 
Politicians love emergency spending, but what about 
emergency cutting? I agree with those who think this is where we ought to take a stand. They’ll claim a meltdown is imminent, but we’ve heard that before. 
Realistically, when we hit the debt ceiling, the govern-
ment can only spend what money it receives, nothing more. Maybe then politicians will get serious about reforming entitlements, ending pork and scaling back our military imperialism. Keeping the debt limit in place will force the government to prioritize the country’s needs and live within 
its confines. 
The United States is being defeated by itself. Widespread 
Keynesianism, ambivalence of the voters, opulence of Wash-
ington, declining revenues and increasing spending all spell the perfect storm. Unsustainable debt is the biggest threat to the survival of the United States. Perhaps when the world sees us getting serious about our fiscal problems, it’ll give the United States a second chance. The force it will take to alter the trajectory of this enormous ship of state is titanic, 
but it is absolutely necessary . We must dramatically change 
course before we hit the iceberg.
Chris Ceresa is a chemistry sophomore. His column appears 
on Thursdays.
Chris Ceresa
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Since assuming office in January , Gov . Rick Scott has taken 
every step possible to pander to corporate interests at the expense of Florida’s working class.
Last week, Rick Scott had SB 408 on his table, a bill benefit-
ing property insurers, which also happened to carry a cost to 
consumers. State Sen. Mike Fasano, a fellow Republican, urged 
Scott to veto the legislation because it would “virtually guaran-tee” a 15 percent premium hike to homeowners. 
Following standard, Scott ignored every sense of moral ob-
ligation to his constituency and signed the bill in.
This bill is just a small step in Scott’s marathon to create an 
avaricious plutocracy in Florida. Since January , Scott proposed $1.75 billion in education cuts and $1.5 billion in corporate tax cuts over two years. He proposed pension cuts for firefight-
ers, teachers and police officers while nearly doubling his own 
Executive Office’s budget. He rejected $2.4 billion of federal stimulus for a high-speed rail despite widespread bipartisan support, and he signed an election bill designed to benefit Re-publicans by suppressing low-income Floridian voting.
The rail system? Our governor didn’t “see any way anyone 
[was] going to get a return.” The school districts? They’re “go-ing to have to figure out how to do better with less.”
Rick Scott claims to be against big 
government, but he signed a bill requir -
ing that pregnant women view an ultra-
sound before they have an abortion. He 
has also ordered random drug tests for state employees.
So, does Rick Scott favor small gov-
ernment or not? Yes and no, actually.
Our governor is in favor of small government should it ben-
efit wealthy corporate powers. He is in favor of big government should it push his own personal agenda. Somehow, he believes these two positions can rationally coexist. 
I am disgusted by this discord in ideology and how so many 
Americans thoughtlessly accept it. I am more disgusted that politicians in Tallahassee are deliberating on invasive abortion bills when more than 10 percent of Florida’s workers are un-employed.
Rick Scott is using his office to create a desperate workforce 
with no hope, no protection from their own government and no choice but to accept low wages. He is a man that has been riddled with scandals during his career. He resigned as CEO of Columbia/HCA amid charges of Medicare fraud to which the company pleaded guilty . Even in office, he raised suspicions that his mandatory drug testing order was intended to benefit 
the company that he co-founded and that his wife currently has 
stock in, Solantic.
His next plan to aid his wealthy peers is to privatize pris-
ons. Of course, he is unconcerned with the incentives a private prison sector would have to increase the number of prisoners in Florida. Protests will fall on deaf ears because according to our governor, “It’s really no different than in business … every-one doesn’t agree with everything you do.”
Our CEO-turned-governor is a businessman, and he is us-
ing his expertise to serve big business. And now, we all have suffer as our elected plutocrats steal money from the pockets of students, teachers, firefighters and the rest of Florida’s working class and put it into the hands of their corporate cohorts.
Abdul Zalikha is an microbiology junior at UF. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays.Sleazing and dealing: another day in the life of Rick Scott  Column
Entrance into the “real world” is daunting for anyone, especially for those without job prospects. 
With employment particularly dif-ficult to come by, Teach For America 
presents a promising alternative for 
new graduates.
In 1990, Princeton University 
alumna Wendy Kopp founded Teach For America. With ambitious goals in mind, Kopp established a two-year program for recent college graduates to teach at urban, low-income public schools scattered across the nation. 
A college degree and an impres-
sive GPA do not a capable teacher make, and at the risk of sounding like a broken record from the Obama campaign, you must have the drive for change if you plan on entering this program.
Unfor -
t u n a t e l y, not all TFA 
teachers seem to have this drive. The program has a 50 percent turnover rate after two years, and an 80 percent turnover rate after three years, ac-cording to a study by the University of Texas education professor Julian Vasquez Heilig and California State 
University’s Su Jin Jez. 
These findings imply TFA workers’ 
commitment to teaching is fleeting at 
best, and self-serving at worst. 
If our generation and its ever-in-
creasing cynicism fails to follow up on our idealism, who will?
Egu Ramanathan is a student at the 
University of Texas at Austin.Should you teach for America?UWire
Egu Ramanathan
UWire
Abdul Zalikha
letters@alligator.orgtheAvenue         thursday, may 26, 2011
PG 9:  Get the scoop on Go Ra-
dio's upcoming performance at 
Common Grounds, learn about a new UF study concerning annoy-ing Facebook ads and get back in frequency with Rock104.PG 10:  Carter Lyles' Tech Effect 
column is back with some inter -
esting news about touch screen technology, and get hip with the latest fashions in Lens Flair.PG 11: Thomas Nassiff's latest Off The Record column reviews Frank Turner's upcoming new record.
ONLINE:
MUSIC: Learn about a hid-
den treasure in local music with 
Klezmer, an eastern European Jewish dance music. The music has a rich history in Gainesville and is practiced by many artists around town.INSIDE:
NEXT WEEK:
Check out our feature article 
about John Waldrop's enor -
mous contribution of vertebrae fossils to the Florida Museum Of Natural History.
Hallowed music venue to close doors in late June
By KATHLEEN BOYLE
avenue writer
Head downtown any night of the week, and one is guaran-
teed to hear a number of conversations abuzz concerning the 
final days of Common Grounds. 
A chief Gainesville music venue for the past fifteen years, 
Common Grounds has been more than just a place to hang 
out and see some bands for locals - it stood as a testament to the live music kinship of Gainesville. Now as the late-June 
closing date approaches, the Gainesville community is taking 
time to reflect upon the many memories that formed within the walls of the venue.
First opened as a relatively small space on University Ave -
nue, Common Grounds expanded in 2004 to its present down-town location of 210 SW Second Ave. Harboring a capacity of 350-400 attendees, it was the town’s primary mid-size venue to see both local acts and touring performers from around the world. 
As its name suggests, Common Grounds maintained a 
foundation as a supportive space for all forms of music, a reliable hub for one to turn to when in the mood for audible indulgence. From karaoke to Kenny Chesney, rock ‘n’ roll to 
remixes, no limits were barred on the types of performers that 
graced the stage. As a result, the diversity the venue promot-ed is echoed in the patronage it continues to receive in the Gainesville community.
Supporters such as Brittany Stella, a former UF graduate 
student, share similar sentiments concerning the closing of this space.  
“I’ve been coming to Common Grounds ever since I first 
moved to Gainesville almost five years ago,” Stella said. “I love all kinds of music, and a number of my friends are musicians. We’ve always just considered Common Grounds to be the sta-ple place to check out shows and have really good times. 
“Seeing Less Than Jake, JJ Grey and Mofro were all great 
shows. It’s going to be weird when this spot isn’t around any -
more. It will be greatly missed.”
u u u
Co-owner Nigel Hamm has been with Common Grounds 
since the day it first opened in 1996. With a personality as winsome as his jubilant smile, Hamm has been the go-to guy for all booking inquiries over the years. As a facilitator for the venue’s schedule, Hamm’s catalog of attended shows would 
immediately make any music-lover jealous. 
When asked what he considered to be some of Common 
Grounds’ most notable shows over the years, however, Hamm 
doesn’t just apathetically fire off a list of the more popular acts that have come through the doors. Instead, his delibera-tion is considerate and gracious, characteristics that illustrate 
his reputation among locals as an impeccably solid person.
“There were some pretty epic shows at the old place,” he 
reminisced on a Friday afternoon while grilling complimentary 
hamburgers and hotdogs for patrons outside on “the porch,” 
Common Grounds’ outdoor bar and lounge area adorned with 
distressed street signs and comfortable patio furniture. 
“Frank Black played there, Jason Loewenstein, Eric Bach-
mann … Kenny Chesney played the current location a few years ago which was pretty amazing. My parents even came 
out for that one,” Hamm smirked.
Hamm began working at Common Grounds when he was 
just 21 years old.  Now at age 37, he admits without getting 
into specifics that his bank of memories is flooded.  
“I pretty much grew up here since I spent all of my 20s and 
most of my 30s with Common Grounds. People ask me all of the time what I remember most. Nothing in particular stands out, but certain things will just come to me where I think to myself, ‘Geez, I can’t even believe that ever happened.’”  
When asked what he plans on doing next, Hamm reveals 
that he’s not quite sure, but that it was time for a change.  
“The decision of closing was kind of a big deal. But now that 
I’m getting older, it’s time for me to experience and do other 
things,” he said. “I’m ready to go to sleep earlier and wake up Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Co-owners Jason Rockhill and Nigel Hamm pose for a picture inside Common Grounds Tuesday before 
Against Me! played its sold-out farewell show at the venue. Common Grounds will be closing its doors in late 
June after 15 years of being a hallowed venue in the Gainesville music scene.
remembering common grounds
see COMMON GROUNDS, page 10local music thursday, may 26, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Go Radio playing Gainesville Friday
By CARTER LYLES
avenue writer
As the countdown to Com-
mon Grounds’ closing draws 
nearer, there are still some acts who are willing to stick with the venue until the very end.
Enter Go Radio, a four-piece 
outfit from Tallahassee com-prised of Alex Reed on guitar, Steven Kopacz on drums, Matt Poulos on bass and vocalist Jason Lancaster (ex-Mayday Pa-rade) on guitar and piano.The band will be playing Fri-
day at Common Grounds, using the show as a way to introduce potential fans to their music be -
fore they head out on the Vans Warped Tour later this summer. Go Radio hopes to generate some additional buzz for their first full-length album “Lucky Street” as well as join countless 
other acts who have rocked the 
Common Grounds in the ven-ue’s long history.
“Normally when we’ve come 
to Gainesville, we’ve played at 1982, but our booking agent de -
cided for us to play at Common 
G r o u n d s this time,” front man Jason Lan-caster said. “Gainesville is really awe -
some for us 
and we love playing here.”
Friday’s show features addi-
tional acts Sparks the Rescue, This Century, Select Start, Paint Me Irrational and opening guest Camryn Wessner.
“Everyone who’s going to be 
at the show will be playing with us again this summer, with the exception of Wessner,” Lancast-er said.
Go Radio will be sharing 
their brand of honest pop rock this Friday at Common Grounds. Doors open at 6 p.m. Tickets are 
$12 in advance, with a $2 cover 
at the door for those under 21, and is open only to those over 18 unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
By KELLY RICHARD
avenue columnist
Every time I pry open my MacBook, my lifeline to 
the world, I immediately double-click the Firefox 
icon. The first website I visit is always the same.
I use Facebook to check in with my friends and to 
catch up on the latest viral news, but during my time 
online I also view dozens of advertisements.
A recent survey, conducted by UF advertising pro -
fessor Jon D. Morris and graduate students Qinwei 
Xie and Meng Zhang, found that both banner ads and sponsored statuses were viewed negatively by college-aged Facebook users. 
The 320 graduate and undergraduate participants 
concluded banners and sponsored statuses are intru-sive and the most irksome of Facebook’s social ads.
When I get promotions that tend to be off base, I 
wonder how successful Facebook advertising is over -
all. In 2011, businesses are projected to spend more than $3 billion in Facebook advertisements, Morris said in a UF news release.
“Companies are directing a lot of money to Fa-
cebook without a clue of what’s effective,” he said. “People consider Facebook a private space, and they don’t like ads that feel intrusive.” 
However, sometimes their invasiveness genuinely 
benefits me.
I’ve learned about some great new bands based 
on my listed music tastes. And when a terrific job lead appeared one day, I took a chance and gave the entic-ing ad a click.
While advertising has its positives and negatives, 
it doesn’t seem like it will disappear from the social network soon.
As long as the ads don’t flash enough to induce 
a seizure or blare at an absurd volume, I’ll keep my 
grumbling to a minimum.Students un-
happy with ads
Local FM station finds new life online
By AMANDA HILL
avenue contributing writer
It may have been bumped off the air by 
“Country 103.7 – The Gator,” but the stu -
dent staff at Rock104.com is determined to 
keep on rocking in the cyber world.
Since UF’s radio frequency, 103.7, 
switched to a country music format in Oc-tober, what used to be Rock104 has trans-formed into Rock104.com, an Internet radio station. No longer under the constraints that come with being a commercial broad-cast station, the station has taken the op-portunity to expand  its catalog beyond the mainstream rock that Rock104 was tradi-tionally known for.
Renee Gork, student experience coordi -
nator for the College of Journalism and Com-munications’ division of multimedia proper -
ties, said one of the ways the Rock104.com team has tried to improve the station is by conducting surveys to find out what its lis-
teners want to hear. 
Per the results, the station has added 
more alternative music and local bands. It 
recently revived “Locals Only,” which was once a Sunday night staple on Rock104.
“Rock104, especially back in the ‘90s, 
was very successful with ‘Locals Only,’” Gork said. “Gainesville has a lot of local bands and they want to make sure to take 
advantage of that again.”
Joe Nanna, a senior telecommunications 
student and Rock104.com team member, 
said he was initially disappointed about the format change, but now he’s excited about the freedom and new possibilities that tak -
ing the station online has presented.
“It’s been pretty awesome because 
we’ve been able to put whatever music we 
want on there,” he said.
Social media has played an important 
role in getting the online station off the ground, as the station’s Facebook page acts in place of a request line. Nanna said 
the staff pays close attention to the feed-back on the page because they want to give listeners what they want to hear.
“If someone says ‘add this song,’ we add 
that song,” he said.
Amid the sea of Internet radio available, 
Rock104.com Program Director Glenn Rick -
ard said the station is aiming to set itself 
apart by offering localized content and mu -
sic that listeners can’t get anywhere else. 
Although progress has slowed over the 
summer, Rock104.com is planning on 
launching videos and rock news segments in the fall. It has developed an iPhone appli-cation that is awaiting approval from Apple.
“Right now, we’re trying to let people 
know that Rock104 is alive and well online,” 
Rickard said. “It’s not the same Rock104 
that went off the air. We think it’s new and improved. But it’s a work in progress.”music
10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, may 26, 2011
Lens
   Flairby Diana Lopez
UF Animal Science 
major Brooke Cantrell 
wears a floral button-
up, denim jeans and 
navy blue Keds. This 
sophomore goes for 
a fun yet classy vibe 
by combining a pearl 
necklace, a braided 
belt, a Chanel 
messenger bag and 
a large bow.
UF senior Riki Rybczyk 
complements cuffed 
denim shorts with a 
boldly striped blouse. 
She paired the Urban 
Outfitters top with a 
backpack and flats, 
meshing vintage and 
summer styles. “I really 
like the cut and pattern 
of the shirt, particularly 
the boatneck and the 
dolman sleeves,” she 
said.For the latest frills, flair and everything 
fashion, check out what our lens caught 
this week. Touch screen market propels advances in technology
It goes without saying that touch screen 
devices are in style these days. From cell-phones to tablets and now even comput-
ers, the tactile pleasure users feel while cruis-ing around on a touch screen has opened the 
market and effectively flooded it with these 
aesthetic and usually user-friendly devices.
However, as with all new technologies, con-
sumers crave advancement, which has pro -
pelled multiple research teams from around the world to develop revolutionary additions to the pre-existing concept of the touch screen.
At the Kajimoto Laboratory of the Univer -
sity of Electro-Communications near Tokyo, 
researchers have developed a new prototype 
touch screen, which its creators claim has the ability to transmit sensations back to the user. 
On the lab’s website, researchers explain 
that “the back is an electrical tactile display, and when you touch the touch panel, it con-veys an electrical touch at the same spot on the back. This means that while you are actu -
ally touching the front screen, you have the feeling that the touch is going through the screen and being traced on your palm. If there 
are icons or graphics on the screen, they can 
also be felt on your palm.”
Texas A&M University’s Interface Ecology 
Lab has also jumped into the touch screen game, announcing at the 2011 Conference on Human Factors in Computing Services that they have successfully developed what they call ZeroTouch, which could potentially make the Kajimoto lab’s prototypes already obso -
lete.
ZeroTouch utilizes a matrix of infrared light 
beams to allow users to navigate a comput-er’s operating system simply by moving their hands in the air. The device in an open-frame apparatus which the user actually reaches in-side of to operate the system. On the Interface Ecology Lab’s website, researchers explain that the frame can ei-ther be mounted on a desktop, placed over 
a computer screen, or 
simply be hung in the air.
And at the Institute 
for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), devel-
opers have created what researcher Dr. Johan Lundin calls “an iPad on steroids.” Their whop-ping 46-inch multi-touch display is already be -
ing utilized in conjunction with a microscope to work as an interactive teaching and learn-ing device, and allows users to zoom in and out up to 1000x magnification with simply a two-handed stretch or pinch gesture.
The research being done to advance the 
concept of the touch screen display is stag-gering. With only a little more than five years in the mainstream (thank you, original iP-hone), the development of newer and better touch screens have inspired multiple research teams and already led to these revolutionary 
inventions. 
To put the ramifications of these advance -
ments into perspective, just imagine holding 
a touch screen phone whose icons you can actually feel, or playing on an iPad that you merely have to wiggle your fingers inside of its frame to operate.
The XBox Kinect and Playstation Move are 
already proving to be beneficial additions to 
the gaming industry, and with new products 
looming on the horizon thanks to the current research being done, it doesn’t seem like it will be much longer before turning on your computer will be a snap of the fingers and sending an email will be as simple as waving your hand.
UF junior Natalie 
Rahimpour brings 
South Florida styles to 
Gainesville by wearing 
a gray belted tunic, 
cuffed denim shorts 
and flip-flops. Her light 
blue messenger bag 
from Nine West brings 
it all together by playing 
up neutral tones, while 
giving her a quirky 
feminine edge.Owners say it's "just time to move on"
earlier instead of it being in the reverse for so long.”
In 2004, Jason Rockhill joined Hamm as co-owner when 
Common Grounds moved to its present location. Having 
worked at the first Common Grounds for years prior to taking 
part ownership, Rockhill has seen the good, the bad and the wild take place over the years. 
“The shows that stand out in mind are the ones where we 
didn’t really even have business hosting the show in the first place. We’ve booked bands that could have easily played a much larger venue. When Kenny Chesney played it was 
pretty incredible. Any place where there’s a door that’s tak -
ing money, he will sell that venue out no matter where it is. 
To have him do that here, and to have him want to do it here, was really cool.”  
Known as a venue that encourages progressive music 
tastes, Common Grounds is noted for hosting a mix of talents that have reflected the interests of Gainesville’s population. Rockhill recalls one of the most memorable acts to come through town was Brooklyn hip-hop artist Talib Kweli.  
“The Talib Kweli show sold out in a couple of days. I’d 
have to say, it was possibly the best stage performance I’ve ever seen in terms of having the crowd pumped. Be -
ing there made me recognize the power of the live per -
formance. Seeing how into it everyone in the room was, 
just stoked that the show’s happening, was amazing.”  
Another show that Rockhill highlighted was a performance 
by Old Crow Medicine Show, a bluegrass band originally from New York now residing in Nashville. This particular booking 
proved to throw Rockhill’s crowd expectations for a loop.  
“The Old Crow Medicine Show performance sold out. It’s 
funny, though, because it’s bluegrass, and because we sell 
so many tickets online, we don’t actually know who is buy -
ing the tickets. We were expecting a laid-back, slightly older 
crowd, but what we got were a bunch of rowdy, hippie-ish 
kids that went nuts. The crowd response was so incredible and loud that they were totally drowning out the band, but in a really good way. They were singing along to every word. 
It was probably the best crowd reaction to a band I’ve ever 
seen.”
u u u
Common Grounds has been recognized in Gainesville as 
a destination venue for many local artists as well.  Notorious for a steady punk rock presence, the Gainesville music scene is home to some of the most internationally recognized art-
ists of the genre. In addition to being a primary venue for 
shows during the annual The Fest organized by local record label No Idea Records, Common Grounds has also hosted shows for Gainesville headliners such as Less Than Jake, Against Me! and Hot Water Music. Rockhill retells the experi-
ence of attending these shows as “a sea of people scream-
ing every word. That’s amazing to see. It’s just really pure.”  
Despite the importance Common Grounds has played by providing local bands a place to perform, Rockhill denies re -
sponsibility for garnering any particular band attention.  
“Everything good and bad that happens in town is all 
about the bands. The bands are the ones that create that enthusiasm. The venues can house for a night at a time, but I don’t claim being responsible for bands getting big. We do 
what we can to make it so that people can sound good on 
stage and feel comfortable. But it’s all about the band.”  
Sander Travisano, bass player of Gainesville band The 
Mercury Program, has attended and played shows at both 
of Common Grounds’ locations. After leaving Gainesville for 
culinary and artistic pursuits in New York and Vermont, Tra-visano and his wife Jessie were looking for an excuse to re-turn to Gainesville. This year they opened the Pelican Broth-ers Food Truck, an eatery on wheels that serves delectable 
sandwiches and is stationed on the parking lot of Common 
Grounds. 
“I’ve known Nigel for a long time,” Travisano said. “About 
nine years ago he and I actually had a barbecue club. When 
I approached him and Jason with the idea of parking Pelican 
Brothers at Common Grounds, they were both incredibly sup-portive. Pelican Brothers works well with the porch at Com-mon Grounds, and it fits in with the venue.”
Travisano, who listed My Morning Jacket, Torche and Blow -
fly as the best performances he’s seen at Common Grounds, 
will be bidding the venue farewell with his band The Mercury 
Program on June 3 for their final performance at the space. 
“We’re really excited to be playing this show,” he said. 
“It’s definitely going to be a big moment for us. Almost ev -
ery time we’ve played in Gainesville it’s been at Common Grounds. But I’m glad to know Nigel and Jason are going onto new ventures and are going out with style. I think it’s re -
ally great the way they are finishing up with cool bands, and even seeing old band reunions. Yes, it’ll also be sad, but who 
knows what may come next.”
Travisano’s hopeful tone is similar to the outlooks shared 
by Hamm and Rockhill. Rockhill emphasized amidst the emo -
tions of the venue’s closing that the end of Common Grounds does not signal the end of live music in Gainesville. 
“Venues will come and go. Once we close, something may 
pop open here and something may not, but bands will always 
find another place to play,” he said.
“People will always have memories of seeing whatever 
band they’re going to see wherever it is that they’re going to see them. I think that some people are bummed out about us closing, but things will still go on.”COMMON GROUNDS , from page 8the tech effect
“We’re really excited to be playing this show. It’s 
definitely going to be a big moment for us. Almost every time we’ve played in Gainesville it’s been at Common Grounds."
Sander Travisano
bass player for The Mercury Program
Carter Lyles
ColumnistWhen I wrote a review of Frank Turner’s 
“Rock & Roll” EP late last year, I heav -
ily praised the self-proclaimed “English 
half-assed country singer” for his too-punk-for-punk brand of acoustic-ish folk rock. 
I praised that release for what it was, but I 
can’t say it revealed what listeners would be get-ting with Turner’s next record. “England Keep My Bones” is Turner’s fourth full-length, and it is with no doubt that I report this is his best record.
Turner has fairly deep ties to the Gainesville 
music scene despite being an Englishman. He closed Fest 9 last year as the last act to play on the last day, even extending his set into the park -
ing lot of :08 after his allotted time ended until police sirens drowned him out.
That super personal connection to fans shows on “England Keep My Bones,” with no shortage of up-front and real lyricism. Take opener “Eu -
logy” as an example, where Turner essentially recites a short poem that serves as a disclaimer that this record is the best he can offer.
“Not everyone grows up to be an astronaut / 
Not everyone was born to be a king / Not every -
one can be Freddie Mercury / Everyone can raise a glass and sing / I haven’t always been a perfect person / No, I haven’t done what mom and dad had dreamed / But on the day I die I’ll say, ‘Well at least I fucking tried’ / That’s the only eulogy I need.”
Indeed, Turner did try — and succeed — with 
this album. “England Keep My Bones” will go down as Turner’s magnum opus.
Take the defining portion in the middle of the album. “I Am Disap-peared,” “English Curse” and “One Foot Before The Other” compile a tri-ple-shot of poetic muscle 
paralelled with glorious 
musicianship.
“I Am Disappeared” 
and “One Foot Before The Other” stand out as jamming rockers, sand -
wiching the ballsiest song 
anyone has heard all year in “English Curse.” It’s a two-minute, 16-second a cappella track where 
Turner proves his vocal prowess.
Turner doesn’t disappoint at the end of the 
record, either. “Glory Hallelujah” is a song of god-lessness and the unbridled joy that comes along 
with it. Even listeners of the faith might have fun singing along to the song’s jumpy rhythm - or maybe they’ll just skip that track. Turner probably doesn’t care.
While the record will both go down as a critical 
triumph and have superb lasting value for Turner, equally as fascinating is the opportunity to delve in the mind of one of the best singer/songwriters on Earth who is essentially an anti-rock star. 
The record isn’t just another step on the path 
for Turner - it’s the best singer/songwriter album that will be released in 2011.
“England, Keep My Bones” will be available 
for purchase everywhere and online on June 7. A special thanks goes out to Hilary Okun at Epitaph Records for the advanced copy for review.thursday, may 26, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
ff the Record Too punk for punk: Frank Turner releases folk record of the year
Thomas Nassiff
Avenue Editor
Twitter: @ThomasNassiff
Local businesses prepare for effects of tuition increase
By AMY STUART
avenue contributing writer
UF students can often be seen 
grabbing a late-night snack at their fa-
vorite restaurant or hitting the movies on a slow Sunday afternoon. But with a tuition increase on the way, students 
will have less discretionary money for 
luxury spending.
Starting fall semester of 2011, stu -
dent tuition will increase by 15 percent in order to fund programs at UF.Steve Solomon and Mark New -
man, co-owners of Leonardo’s Pizza by the Slice, have no fears for fall. They believe their low prices will drive more students to their restaurants and sales might actually go up.
Students will have to cut discretion-
ary spending, but so will the restau -
rant, Solomon said. By cutting salaries, buying local products and avoiding ad-
vertising, the restaurant will be able to 
overcome any profit loss.
Although some businesses are feeling confident, senior Elaine Pego-
raro has noticed the lifestyle changes 
that accompany tuition increases. 
Starting school 
in 2008, Pegoraro had enough finan-cial aid to pay for tuition and rent while still having ap-proximately $500 
left for food and 
leisure. She was taking a full schedule 
of 15 credits.By her sophomore year, tuition in-
creased and she had to get a job. In order to save money she has started renting books and eats at home as much as possible. She said she doesn’t see herself going out as much as she has in past years. 
Mark Rush, a economics professor 
at UF, believes there will be a small ef-fect on businesses but not much. Giv -
en the average UF student comes from a wealthy family, almost all should be able to afford the increase.According to Rush, the families who 
will be hit the hardest are low-income families who probably aren’t eating out or seeing movies every week.
What businesses need to do is 
look at profit margins from August to October of last year and compare it to profits this fall, he suggested. 
“Some students here will clearly be 
hurt more than others,” he said. “For 
them it will be painful. God willing, I 
hope it won’t force anyone out of col-lege.”
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 3/3’s
ONLY $459
$49 Signing Fees
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1The Polos
Roommate Matching Available
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. $800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call Cindy 352-443-2016.    6-9-11-10-1
GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR REDUCED 
RENT. Fully furnished or unfunished up-graded 2 Bdrm apt w/ W/D Need mature, 
handy adult to occasionally show apts (other 
3 currently occupied) and do minor chores. 
Requires less than 4 hours/mo. Normally 
rents for $735/mo. Negotiable Sorry no pets. Call 727-423-9463.    6-9-11-9-14BR/4BA Countryside Apt furnished. Asking 
$375/mo. 2 brms avail. beg. 8/1. Rent inc. 
cable and wireless internet + util package for 
elec/water. Contact Chris at 941-726-2204 
or raginriv@ufl.edu w/ any questions.   5-31-
6-1
4br/4bath-$1400/month-All INCLUSIVE
Cable/Internet/Utilities($175 cap)
Fully furnished-32" HDTV in Common room
Countryside Apartments- Available 8/1/11
954.682.8352 or maggator@ufl.edu 
6-2-6-1
Furnished,4bedroom,4bath,W/D,1st 
floor,$350/room, 3800 SW 20th Univ Terrace 
West, includes utilities Steve 352-586-6468; 
room-mate matching    7-5-11-10-1
$375-Well-maintained 4/4 SW Gville condo 
avail. starting summer or fall. Less than 10 
mins. from UF/Shands/Butler Plaza! RMM match, indiv. leases, private bath, walk-in closets, W/D, on 2 bus routes. Internet/cable 
included. Call 352.514.3398.   8-26-11-25-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
3bedroom Starting @ $1019
Amazing townhome with everything included! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-2801   8-15-25-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
One Month FREE!
Move In by June 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
8-15-11-25-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
8-15-11-25-2AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 4752.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2Courtney Greens
1/1 *$559 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
6-9-11-43-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     6-2-11-31-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1300 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/1.5BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/1.5BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $590-625. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39376-2-34-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1700
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
5-31-11-32-2
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com8-15-25-23bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    6-9-11-31-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     5-31-11-16-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    8-2-11-30-2
One & Two bedroom units for rent close to 
Campus! 1403 NW 6th Pl, 617 & 619 SW 10th Lane, 1123 SW 5th Ave, 924 SW 5th Ave, 1015 SW 9th Ave, 111 SE 16th Ave, 2905 & 2811 SW Archer Road 352-692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-8-2
Great Houses/Condos for rent near Campus 
2021 NW 7th St, 855 NW 20th St, 426 NW 25th St, 1810 NW 23rd Blvd, 505 NW 34th St, 1127 NW 16th Ave, 207 NW 36th Dr, 918 NW 3rd Ave, 2140 NW 7th Pl. 352-692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-8-2THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 13
Baxter House Near Campus 1013 SW 4th 
Ave. 4BR/2BA, custom designed, two story 
brick home, W/D, new H A/C, hardwood 
floors & walls. Much more $2,300/mo + util. 
275-1259 ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-11-
8-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UF
Wood Floors or Carpet $500/Mo  
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 
1216 SW 3rd Avenue 
GRAD II Apts
1BR & 2BR 1BA  1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. 1BR $500/Mo
2BR-$800/Mo  
1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry 
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos.
ROBERT OBRIEN APTS
1BR 1BA $400/Mo
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat
Gas Ht, Laundry on site
2901 NW 14th St.
PICKWICK PARK
2BR 1 ½ BA Condo Carpet,Central  H & Air, Dishwasher
Pool, Clubhouse etc.  $700/Mo
4411 SW 34th Street #1005
3BR 1BA Home 3 BLKS to UF
Wood Floors, Central H & Air
Avail late August.  1012 SW 3rd Avenue$1200/Mo
2BR 1BA Duplex $600/Mo
New Carpet,  Window A/C
Nat Gas Ht.  6 BLKS to UF604 NW 13th Terrace
                                    5-26-11-3-2
1103 SW 6th Avenue Rear, 2-story brick, 1/2 
block to UF, 4BR + 2/3BA, remodeled open design, W/D, Disp, 2 A/C units, DW,MW parking, backyard, NPets, NS. Fall $2,100 + util. 275-1259, ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-11-8-2
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.netClean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, stable, mature persons.●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, WDH, CHA, carpet. ●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 - $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our units are newly refurbished with all new ap-pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    8-15-11-25-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1600/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2507 NW 39th Rd 1/1 $725-hardwood floors, 
porch, w/d, pets-Y!, no pet fees, walk in 
closets, fence, close to everything Newberry 
& 39th rd, Avil now. MUST SEE beautiful 
unit. 305-586-8255 smwhite14@yahoo.com  
6-9-11-9-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/
tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida 
room, private fenced backyard with patio, 
pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-1053  
6-16-11-12-2
3&4 bedroom homes avail in NW Gainesville. 
Mins to UF and Santa Fe. Ideal for students/
families. Pets Welcome! Avail Aug 5.
3331 NW 30th PL 3bed/2bath $975 
3321 NW 30th PL 4 bed/2 bath $1175 
Call Ricky for more info 352-284-5119    6-7-
11-8-2
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. 
Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + 
utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 
5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-
11-13-2
3/2, 3514 nw 50th terr., culdesac, fireplace, 
garage, small dogs OK, $800, available now, 
Jim 375 1590   5-26-11-5-2
1 MONTH FREE ★ NO APPLICATION FEE
★ Apts Starting at $350 ★ Pets OK! ★
Call Today. 
Meadowcrest Apts. 352-378-3988
meadowcrest@wbsproperties.com
6-14-11-10-2
1/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth 
call: 352 377-2150    6-16-11-10-2
1/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook -
ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2
●Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage Blocks to UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry with w/d, large private screened porch. No Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $875/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836  
6-16-11-10-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA 2816 W Univ Ave 1 mi to UF. Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. Avail now.$1500/mo summer, $1600/mo fall NEG.327-2931, 376-6183              6-16-11-10-2
The Landings
2/2.5 Townhome
ONLY $940
Includes Internet & Cable
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-21-2
Very nice Rockwood Villas Townhouse
3/3 for only $900.00/month-Great deal!Large bedrooms, updated appliances, Washer/dryer, 2 pools, lots of parking
Call Jared at (941) 737-6997    6-30-11-10-2Near UF. Beautiful 4BR/2BA home. Florida 
room w/ inground jacuzzi. W/D. All tile floor. 
2-car attached garage, storage shed. Walk 
to grocery & shops. Avail Aug 9. $1399/mo  
904-534-6982, kencarmgravs@comcast.net    
6-16-11-8-2
●●●●  HOUSE  ●●●●
105 NW 30th St, 2200 sq ft, 3BR/2BA+ bo-
nus rm w/ bath, carport, lg yard, pet-friendly, 
12 blks to stadium, bus rte 5, 34, 43. $1700/
mo  352-281-7932    6-2-11-4-2
2,3,& 4 bdrm homes for RENT!
Some w/fenced yards, great 
locales & priced right! call/text 
Cathy Tyrrell , Keller Williams 
Gainesville Rlty (352)281-2514    5-26-11-
2-2
2BR HOUSE. Super nice, tile floors, A/C, 
W/D hook-up, fenced yard, on bus route, 
close to UF & SFC. $650/mo, flex lease. 914 
NW 40th Ave. Call for info         352-318-8822    
6-7-11-5-2
Great 3/2 House w/crpt & w/d (1100sqft)
Rent $1050/month with lease
Pets allowed  :)  Available June 1st
Contact Kathryn: kesamai@gmail.com
4102 NW 21st Terrace Gville, FL 32608    
7-14-14-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-11146-30-11-10-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/ 
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-
ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail 
Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2175 352-665-8166 lv mssg 
8-15-11-21-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice,
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwash -
er, ice, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. $1590/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg          8-15-11-21-21/1 POOLHOUSE
Across from Shands W/D Pets OK
Gym Tanning Utilities Gated Entry Incl.
725 sq ft. Reduced Rate $925/mo
Avail August 937-626-9882    5-31-11-3-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm floor plans starting
at $635. Washer/Dryer, Fitness Center,
Tennis Court, Swimming Pool, Sauna etc.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 10-5, Sun 12-4
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillas.com
text (Lakewood)@65586
8-15-11-20-2
SPYGLASS
Individual Leases. Furniture Pkgs. incl.
Washer/Dryer, FREE Hi-Speed internet.
Rates start at $399. Every unit an end unit.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 26nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass) 65586
8-15-11-20-2
UPPER WESTSIDE /
NANTUCKET
1 & 2 bdrm  Luxury Apts. Granite counters.
Parking avail. Walk to campus & stadium.
For info. call 352-872-4644
upperwestside@cmcapt.com
text: upperwestside@65374
8-15-11-20-2
2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS, $750, NEAR 
MALL & UF. LOTS OF PARKING, CORNER 
UNIT, HAS OWN W+D D.AGUIRRE.
AZOCAR@GMAIL.COM OR 347.878.9072   
AVAILABLE JULY 1.    7-5-11-10-2
2/1 duplex in Tower Oaks Glen
Cent A/C, laundry room w/ W/D, on bus 
route. No pets. $525/mo , 1st month + last month. 6900 SW 21st Lane (352) 514-9698   6-7-11-4-2DOWNTOWN STUDIO/GARAGE APT
416 SE 2nd St. Off-street parking, privacy. 
Near main bus station. H2O/sewage provid -
ed, window A/C, space heat. 1st, last, sec.  Call 373-6551    7-5-10-2
2BR HOUSE
Private yard. Small dog OK. $650/mo 6200 
SW 13th St. 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   6-7-11-4-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pris-tine Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, 
hdwd flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to 
Shands/UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-
1458    6-28-11-8-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house. Male 
or female. No pets/smoking. Free off-street 
parking $450/mo. Includes all utilities, wifi, 
security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 
727-501-3485    5-31-11-33-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   5-31-20-414, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412    6-2-10-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from 
Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. 
$325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837                                 6-7-11-9-4
ROOMMATES WANTED! 2 student girl 
roommates looking for 1-2 roommates to 
share 4 bed/2 bath home. W/D,kitchen/din-
ing/living/family rooms, side patio, fenced in 
yard $500/month everything included. Great 
location within 5 miles of campus!
Call Megan, (386)441-8208.    6-7-7-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 
min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, 
non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881    
6-7-11-5-4Male college student wanted for gated 
4BR/4BA Countryside condo, poolside, own 
BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, ear-
ly stop on UF bus rte. Utils incl. $400/mo. No 
deposit  863-634-1893     6-30-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Countryside 
condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl.
Direct bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless.
Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-4814
6-30-11-10-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
Perfect 2/2 Townhouse 3.5 miles UF 
$135,500. Master bdrm upstairs. New A/C, kitchen appliances, siding, and much more. 
Pictures, ect at Realtor.com MLS #319897. 
352-376-9756    6-16-11-9-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6Cash For Electronics Working or not! Lap
tops,iPods,Smarphones,iPhones,Gaming 
Systems and More! We Do repairs Too
We are located by the Beef `O` Brady`s on 
Archer RD Techmodo 352-872-5881
6450 SW Archer Rd
5-26-10-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
8-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
BE YOUR OWN BOSS-START TODAY! 
OWN A RED HOT! DOLLAR, DOLLAR 
PLUS, MAILBOX OR DISCOUNT PARTY 
STORE FROM $51,900 WORLDWIDE! 
100% TURNKEY (800)518-3064 WWW.
DRSS20.COM    5-26-1-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. 
MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock ready to ship. Starting at $995.00 www.NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N    5-26-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-25-11BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-
11-25-11
STAND OR SIT ● POWERFUL MOBILITY
15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take 
apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-
erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & 
up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    
6-30-11-9-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   8-15-11-20-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
8-15-11-20-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
6-30-11-65-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 Eagle Talon $1499
89 Ford Bronco II $129994 Ford Taurus $1299  
01 Mits Montero $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $199998 Ford F250 $250096 BMW 318TI $3999 352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
99 Ford F150 $3999  
02 Chevy Blazer $4999  
01 Chevy Silverado $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checksMove vehicle $500 & up!352-375-9090     8-15-95-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 Ford Taurus $5999  
02 Chevy Camero $6999  
03 GMC Sonoma $6999
05 Chevy Monte Carlo $6999
352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
02 Nissan Xterra $899905 Chevy Trailblazer $9999
05 Toyota Camry $10,999  
352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
8-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
6-2-11-25-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Denise Fanning at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14Extended Day
Enrichment Program
Is Hiring Now for Jobs
starting August 15, 2011
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTY
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM -VARIOUS LOCATIONS-●ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH OUTDOOR GAMES - $10/hr - BA desired or 
successful exp. working w/ children.
●CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS & CRAFTS - $10/hr - BA desired or successful exp. working w/ children.
●Girl Scout Leaders, Tennis Instructors, 
Dance Instructors & 4-H Leaders
Hours required - M,T,Th,F - 1:45-5:30, Wed - 12:30-5:30 PMDRUG TESTING REQUIRED-
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED-
AA/EOE
For More Information Call: 352-955-7766Apply online www.sbac.edu5-26-11-3-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
5-31-72-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
ATTN SMOKERS!!!!
Need participants for study assessing the
effects of various activities on smoking. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com
5-31-13-14
FT prof NANNY needed NOW $15/hr;
3 kids under 5;M-F 48hrs;+OT/ wkds; gradswelcomed; refs/bkkg ch; billing. Span/Eng;long term; Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mailresume, pix, to gnv@nanoneone.com  
6-7-11-14-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. ExcellentBenefits. Please email resume toahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14
HTML Programmer (Part Time)
This part-time, entry level position primar-
ily involves working on websites and online publications for our clients using HTML, CSS and basic image manipulation. We code web-sites by hand (no visual website generators such as Frontpage), so at least entry level to intermediate HTML and CSS skills are re-quired. Graphic design and layout skills may be helpful, but are not necessary since most of the work involves adding content to exist-ing websites. About 20 hours per week with flexible scheduling. The position does have the potential for long term growth into other positions within our company.www.oandp.com/careers    5-31-11-6-14F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, 
salary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 
352-371-4000.   6-2-11-8-14
SUMMER WORK
GREAT PAY, $14.50 base/appt 
PT/FT openings avail. 
Customer Sales/Service, 
Will train, conditions apply 
all ages 17+ CALL NOW 
(352) 505-9241
6-2-11-8-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617    8-15-11-25-14
FARAHS ON THE AVENUE
Now hiring SERVERS & PREP COOK.
Apply weekdays after 5pm. No calls.1120 West University Ave.    5-26-4-14
Exp. PRESSURE WASHING person w/ truck 
to pull trailer, pc, internet, cell; flexible hrs, 
part or full-time 'as needed', good pay. Only 
serious/dependable candidates, please. 352-
870-6017 / shaneman@symo.com    6-16-11-
12-14
BARN HELP
EXPERIENCE A MUST. In exchange for les-
sons or boarding; or will pay the right person.  Hunter/Jumper facility. 352-359-4149    6-2-11-5-14
Veterinary Receptionist
Part-time position, experience
preferred, some weekends. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145
W.Newberry Rd, Newberry, FL 32669.
5-26-11-5-14● LINUX ADMINISTRATORS
● SALES CONSULTANTS
● ADMIN ASST
● 3D AUTOCAD ASST
● MARKETING ASST
● SHIPPING TECH
Full and part time positions
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.    5-26-
11-4-14
CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANT
Full or part time. Responsibilities - AutoCAD, 
SketchUp. Assist with planning and drawings 
of various projects. Please apply at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.    5-26-
11-4-14
LaFiesta Restaurant
Now hiring hostesses, servers, cooks & dish-
washers. Apply after 2pm 7038 NW 10th Pl    6-9-11-8-14
MARKETING POSITION – PT PERSON 
M-F DAILY – 20-30 HOURS WEEKLY – 
STARTING $8.00 HOURLY BASED ON 
EXPERIENCE. MUST BE DEPENDABLE 
AND HAVE EXCELLENT COMMUNICATION 
SKILLS. MUST BE PROFICIENT IN EXCEL 
AND WORD. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS.  
EMAIL:WELLS@RIDGWAYTRUSS.COM    
5-31-11-5-14
AUTOCAD – PT PERSON M-F DAILY – 
30-50 HOURS WEEKLY- STARTING $9.00 
HOURLY BASED ON EXPERIENCE.  
MUST BE DEPENDABLE AND GOOD 
KNOWLEDGE OF BASIC AUTOCAD.  1 
MILE FROM CAMPUS.  EMAIL: WELLS@
RIDGWAYTRUSS.COM    5-31-11-5-1416, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse. Apply 
from 2:30 to 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please   6-2-11-5-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.50/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    6-16-8-14
FT NANNY NEEDED JUNE 1ST: $13/hr;
5 kids 4-12; 45 hrs/wk; M-F;
must be exp/prof/ref/ commit 1yr+
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com6-2-11-4-14
PT Assistant Manager position for non-profit 
organization's Thrift Shop. Some retail ex-perience reqd. Must be able to work flexible 
days/hours. Refs reqd.  Please email resume 
to  office@gainesvillejrleague.org    6-9-11-
5-14OFFICE ASSISTANT for real estate office. 
Approx 25 hrs/wk, afternoons and some Sat 
mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-
ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-
ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting 
pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student. 
Please send resume and cover ltr to
rabell@atlantic.net  No phone calls please. 
8-15-11-20-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
Full Time
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Specialists
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A        6-16-5-14
17 DRIVERS NEEDED! Top 5% Pay! 
Excellent Benefits New Trucks Ordered! 
Need 2 months CDL-A Driving Exp. (877)258-
8782 www.meltontruck.com    5-26-1-14
Driver- ARRIVING NOW 2012 Volvos and 
Internationals. Plenty of miles! LOCAL Orientation. DAILY or WEEKLY Pay! CDL-A, 
3 months current OTR experience. (800)414-
9569. www.driveknight.com   5-26-1-14Driver- Plenty of miles. Recession proof 
freight. $1000 Sign-on for experienced CO's 
and incentives for O/O's. Driver Academy 
Refresher Course available. recruit@ffex.
net. (855)356-7121.   5-26-1-14
CDL Drivers - Relocate for Tons of Great 
Paying Texas Frac work! Great company/
Paid benefits! Must have bulk pneumatic 
trailer experience. Call today! (800)491-
9029.   5-26-1-14
Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL 
NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Susan ext. 227 
Joy ext. 238 SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC   
5-26-1-14
Drivers - CDL-A GREAT HOME TIME! 
START UP TO 43¢ PER MILE SIGN-
ON BONUS!! Lease purchase available. 
Experience Req’d. (800)441-4271 X FL-100 
HornadyTransportation.com   5-26-1-14
CYPRESS TRUCK LINES Home Weekends! 
Southeast Regional, Top Pay & Great Benefits! 6 Months TT exp CDL-with clean 
MVR. Call (800)545-1351 www.cypres-
struck.com   5-26-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
●●ADVANCED CLEANING & JANITORIAL●●
30 years exp. ● Prompt ● DependableDetailed cleaning at low rates. Call thepeople who really do care. 352-682-0800     AdvancedCleaningGainesville.com  
6-9-11-10-15Med School Entrance Consulting
Resident Physician offering 
advice for PreMed Students!
Call: 248-762-0712
Email:gatormedconsulting@gmail.com    
6-14-10-15
Gator Slide Farm horse boarding, $350/mo., 
day stalled, night turned out.  Barns chores 
done credited against board bill.  Dressage, 
x-country, stadium. Student recommended. 
352-466-3538, gtrslfrm@aol.com
5-31-11-6-15
CPR, First Aid, Basic Life Support,
Advanced Cardiac Life Support Classes
Offered at your schedule. Best prices in town. 
Call Cardiac One today (352)494-4217
7-5-11-10-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. 
Wentworth. (866)494-9115. Rated A+ by the 
Better Business Bureau.     5-26-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? 
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low 
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! 
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.
com     5-26-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA 
approved program. Financial aid if qualified - 
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance (866)314-3769.     5-26-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com     5-26-1-15
Access Reverse Mortgage! Florida-
based: Application & closing in your home. Experience: almost 1,000 reverse mortgag-es funded. Award-winning customer service. BBB A rating. NMLS #4566. (800)806-7126     5-26-1-15
Medical Management Careers start here-
Get connected online. Attend college on your own time. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.com     5-26-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local 
Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904     
5-26-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
PREGNANT? CONSIDERING ADOPTION? 
A childless energetic, spiritual, committed 
couple seeks to adopt. Financially secure. Healthcare professionals. Expenses paid. Gil & Dave (888)580-ADOPT (2367). FL 
Bar#0150789     5-26-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   8-15-11-25-18
LOCAL IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, H1B's, Employment 
Green Cards, & Natz
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
6-28-10-18
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-11-25-20
Get Your Ad Noticed Here and in Over 100 
Papers throughout Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to 
work for You! (866)742-1373
www.florida-classifieds.com.    5-26-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.    5-31-11-7-21THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 17
Sports
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
During Tuesday’s national 
championship matches, the Gators must have thought they were see-ing double.
Florida won its fifth national 
championship in a thrilling 4-3 
comeback victory against Stanford 
in Palo Alto, Calif., and handed the Cardinal their first loss of the sea-son and first home loss since 1999 
— ending their 184-match home 
winning streak.
But the rematch of last year’s 
final had frightening similarities to Florida’s heartbreaking 4-3 loss to Stanford in 2010, and both coach 
Roland Thornqvist and star sopho-
more Lauren Embree experienced a bit of deja vú.
“I don’t know what it looked like on TV or in the stands, but that took about 10 years off my life,” said Thornqvist, who won his sec-ond national title at UF. 
Just like last year, Florida took 
the doubles point in convincing fashion before watching Stanford stage a roaring rally to take the overall lead. With the Gators down 3-1, and Embree down 4-0 in her third set, it seemed the Cardinal was primed for a repeat. 
But UF mounted a run of its 
own, with freshmen Alex Cercone and Olivia Janowicz winning two crucial singles matches to tie the 
finals at 3 apiece.
And for the second consecutive 
year, Florida found itself fighting 
Stanford’s sophomore standout Mallory Burdette with the champi-
onship on the line. But this time, the 
Gators had Embree playing last.
“We had the player we wanted 
in the end,” Thornqvist said.
“Lauren is one of the players 
who you can always depend on,” Cercone said. “Sometimes you don’t want to depend on a player and put pressure on anybody, but 
it came down to that today.”
Burdette, the hero of Stanford’s 
win in 2010, had every opportunity 
to down Embree and claim the title 
for the Cardinal.
She took a dominant lead in 
the third set, but Embree fought 
back, displaying the resiliency that 
MIKE BLAKELY TRANSFERRING TO AUBURN KAMM WASHINGTON LEAVES TEAM ONLINE
n Be sure to check out alligatorSports.org 
over the weekend for updates on men’s and 
women’s tennis at the NCAA Championships and baseball at the SEC Tournament. n Sophomore center fielder Kamm Washington is not in 
Hoover, Ala., for this week’s SEC Tournament. According to the Palm Beach Post, he has left the team and plans to transfer. His mother, Cheryl Washington, said he has mul -
tiple opportunities, but that Florida “was not a good fit.”n Former Gators running back Mike Blakely, who spent 
the spring with the team before deciding to leave Florida earlier this month, will reportedly transfer to Auburn.  An early enrollee as a freshman, Blakely missed spring prac -
tice after shoulder surgery. Courtesy of UF Communications
Florida sophomore Lauren Embree clinched the win for the Gators in dramatic fashion on Tuesday, beat-ing Stanford sophomore Mallory Burdette in a tiebreak after being down 4-0 in the third set. 
Florida downs Stanford to win NCAA Championship
See TeNNIS, p AGe 20
UF BASeBALL
JeSSe SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
HOOVER, Ala. — With the game seem-
ingly slipping away Wednesday, Florida 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan convened his team 
in the dugout.
Trailing the Bulldogs 5-2 in the bottom 
of the seventh, O’Sullivan rounded up his troops and sent them a message. 
The No. 3-seed Gators (42-15) then rallied 
from a late three-run deficit to capture their 
first game at the Southeastern Conference 
Tournament, downing Mississippi State (34-22) 7-5 in Regions Park.
“I told them we needed to have better at-
bats,” he said. “We had some opportunities. 
I thought if we could just put some qual-
ity at-bats together we could make a run. 
Sometimes that works and sometimes that 
doesn’t, but they obviously responded real 
well and we swung the bats a lot better.” 
The Gators promptly loaded the bases 
with a single, a walk and hit batsman before designated hitter Brian Johnson smashed a 
bases-clearing grand slam, giving UF the 
lead and sending the bench into a frenzy. 
The sophomore worked a tough at-bat, 
fouling off three pitches with two strikes, but MSU freshman lefty Luis Pollorena 
hung a fastball and Johnson got just enough 
to keep the ball fair, barely eclipsing the 
right field wall.
“When I first hit it I 
thought it was definitely 
foul,” he said. “But when 
I looked up it stayed 
straight as an arrow, so I 
just started running.”
The wind was play-
ing tricks all afternoon in Hoover, Ala., and 
O’Sullivan said he thought the ball was foul when it left the bat. 
“I was just hoping it wasn’t,” he said. 
“But Brian took advantage of his opportu-
nity.”
The Gators plated an insurance run in the Gators ride Johnson grand
slam, take tourney opener Softball teams around the country 
should be taking notes. Coach Tim Walton has built a super -
power in Gainesville.
Everyone knows the powerful 
bats littered up and down the Gators lineup. Kelsey Bruder, Megan Bush, Brittany Schutte and the sizzling Cheyenne Coyle have combined for 69 home runs and have been raking all year for No. 4-seed Florida.
As a team, the Gators lead the 
country in home runs with 107. 
But entering this weekend’s Su-
per Regional against Oregon, it won’t be the long ball catapulting UF to its fourth straight Women’s College World Series — it will be the Gators’ newfound short game.
In the elimination game against 
UCLA on Sunday, Florida scored nine runs in the first inning off two perfect bunt base hits, two hit batsmen, four 
singles, a fielder’s choice and just one 
two-run round-tripper.
Oh, and six steals.Florida took 
full advantage of third-string catcher Grace Murray, swip-
ing 16 bases in 
two games.
“If we can 
keep finding a way to keep moving people 
along the basepaths it’s going to take just a single here or an error there to score runs,” catcher Tiffany DeFelice 
said. “Bunting, stealing, hit-and-runs 
is going to be huge for us this week.”
DeFelice is right.Before the offensive outburst, the 
Gators were struggling at the plate. They scored just two runs off one hit in the first game Sunday and left six runners stranded in scoring position. And UF won Saturday’s game against 
UCLA after scoring four runs off only 
four hits.UF’s small ball anything but
See BASeBALL, p AGe 20See WATTS, p AGe 20O’Sullivan
Matt Watts
Telling You Watts Up 
mwatts@alligator.org“Lauren is one of the play -
ers who you can always 
depend on.”
Roland Thornqvist
UF head tennis coach By JOHN BOOTHE
 Alligator Writer
   
 Coming off a pair of runner-up ﬁ  n-
ishes at the Southeastern Conference 
Outdoor Championships, the second-
ranked men’s and No. 19 women’s track teams begin their quest to qualify for the NCAA Championships today at noon during the three-day NCAA East Pre-liminary Rounds held in Bloomington, Ind.
  How many athletes will the 
Gators send to the NCAA Champi-
onships? Florida fell one point short 
of an outdoor title last year to a Texas A&M team that qualiﬁ  ed three more men’s athletes than UF.  This season, the Gators have a chance to improve on their qualifying numbers with 27 men competing, compared to just 19 in 2010. “I felt like last year, in the ﬁ  rst day we kind of got caught by 
surprise, even though it went OK for 
us,” UF coach Mike Holloway said. “We didn’t expect the intensity to be what it was, but we won’t be caught off guard this year.”
  Can the women’s team con-
tinue its hot streak? Even though the Gators have struggled through the indoor and much of the outdoor 
season, Holloway said their second-
place ﬁ  nish at SECs was no ﬂ  uke. With 22 athletes at prelims, Florida will look to distance runner Gen-evieve LaCaze, who captured her ﬁ  rst SEC title in the steeplechase two week ago, for leadership. “Obvious-ly, after indoor we were really disap-pointed; like, we don’t come ﬁ  fth,” 
she said. “We really have pulled it 
together. We had a lot of individual meetings set aside from the boys, just so we could regather our side of the team.”
  Will each piece of Florida’s triple 
jump trio qualify for a trip to Des Moines, Iowa? After Will Claye, Omar Craddock and Christian Taylor 
almost swept the men’s triple jump 
at the NCAA Indoor Championships in February with a 1-2-5 ﬁ  nish, the group will look to attempt a second run at the feat by snagging three 
of the top-12 qualifying marks this 
weekend. Claye, who was named the SEC Athlete of the Year, and Taylor are ranked ﬁ  rst and second in the na-tion in the triple jump, while Crad-dock comes in at sixth. “Everybody’s just trying to qualify, cause it’s dif-ferent from indoors, you just can’t hit an auto-mark,” Claye said. “So we’re 
trying to get everything right and go 
out there and get some big marks, hopefully make it to nationals.” THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
 By BRYAN HOLT
 Alligator Writer
   
 The No. 4-seed Florida softball team 
takes on No. 13-seed Oregon this week-
end in a best-of-three NCAA Super Re-gional beginning Friday at 2 p.m.
  How will heat affect the 
Gainesville Super Regional? Ore-gon will be facing temperatures close to 40 degrees warmer than what they are leaving behind in Eugene, Ore.
  “I kind of saw [the midday start 
times], and was like, ‘Dang,’ but I guess it’s kind of good because they’re not going to be used to it,” Stephanie Brombacher said.
  UCLA pitcher Donna Kerr tired 
quickly during Sunday’s games, re-sulting in a .1 inning-appearance in the deciding Game 7 after one-hitting Florida in Game 6. Gators coach Tim Walton also suggested the heat was one of the reasons Hannah Rogers was struggling with her typically dominant drop-ball. 
  Will UF continue its small-ball 
transformation? The Gators stole 21 bases — encouraging base runners to 
hurl imaginary grenades toward the 
UF dugout in celebration — against now infamously inept UCLA third-string catcher Grace Murray. Florida has put a renewed emphasis on bun-ting and short game over the past month. In the circle, Oregon has ace Jessica Moore, who has picked up 24 wins and a 1.59 ERA but also walked 
93 batters. Grenades should get plen-
ty of air time against Ducks catcher Alexa Peterson, who has thrown out just 17.4 percent of runners this sea-son.
  Can Cheyenne Coyle continue to 
dominate? The freshman is batting .600 with two homers, six RBIs, three walks and four steals this postseason. 
Walton joked he might move Coyle 
into Brittany Schutte’s clean-up spot after she swapped places in the line-up with Tiffany DeFelice on Sunday. The senior catcher said her freshman shortstop “is on ﬁ  re” and “complete-ly deserves” the batting order nod. 
  “That kid is hitting bombs,“ DeFe-
lice said. “She’s hitting singles. She’s doing whatever she needs to do to get on base.” WHAT TO WATCH
Three things to look for this weekend from Gators softball, tennis and track
SOFTBALL
TRACKTENNIS
 Chris Watkins / Alligator
  Florida pitcher Stephanie Brombacher threw four innings against UCLA 
on Sunday and said the heat will be again be a factor this weekend. 
 Max Reed / Alligator Staff
  Gators jumper Will Claye, the Southeastern Conference Athlete of the 
Year, is ranked ﬁ  rst in the triple jump entering this weekend’s prelims.  
 Bryan Doolin / Alligator
  Senior Alexandre Lacroix enters the individual portion 
of the NCAA Championships ranked No. 6. Lacroix will also play doubles with partner Sekou Bangoura Jr.   By THOMAS NASSIFF
 Alligator Writer
   
 Florida’s trip out west for the NCAA Championships 
continues this week with singles play in Palo Alto, Calif. 
Both the men’s and the women’s team will be represented at 
Taube Stadium Wednesday through Monday.  
  Can Alexandre Lacroix continue his dominant 
career at Florida? The Gators men’s tennis team isn’t quite done yet for the 2011 campaign, as their top dou-
bles pair of Alexandre Lacroix and Sekou Bangoura Jr. 
will be competing in the NCAA Doubles Champion-ship beginning today. 
They will take on California’s pairing of Nick An-
drews and Christoffer Konigsfeldt.
  Will the women experience a hangover in singles 
play after a high-intensity win in team play? The women’s tennis team claimed its ﬁ  fth national team championship Tuesday with a win over Stanford, but 
Florida will also be represented in the doubles tourna-
ment. 
The Gators’ top pairing of Allie Will and Alex Cer-
cone earned the No. 2 overall seed in the doubles draw, 
and will face Virginia’s pairing of Lindsey Harden-
bergh and Erin Vierra today.
  Both Gators tennis teams have players competing 
in the NCAA Singles Championships as well, and af-ter a disappointing showing in the team format, can 
the men bounce back? Lacroix, who will be looking 
to add to his school record wins total, and Bangoura will represent the men’s team. Will, Cercone, Joanna Mather, Lauren Embree and Olivia Janowicz will rep-
resent the women’s team.
The Round of 64 was held Wednesday but results 
were not available at the time of press. You can follow 
the Gators who advance in the tournament at alligator-Sports.org and ncaa.com. eighth when junior Preston Tuck-
er, who gave UF a 1-0 lead earlier 
when he split the gap in right field 
for a run-scoring double, ripped an opposite field single to left for 
his second RBI of the contest. 
Junior Tommy Toledo made 
his first start since March 1 versus 
Florida State, and he continued 
his strikeout binge, recording six 
punch-outs — one short of a ca-
reer high — in just 2.2 innings. 
Toledo did struggle with com-
mand early though, walking two 
and hitting a batter in the first two 
innings.
And in the third, MSU took a 
2-1 lead when UF center fielder 
Bryson Smith completely mis-judged a fly ball, plating two 
Bulldogs on a questionably ruled 
triple. 
“I thought Tommy gave us a 
good start,” O’Sullivan said. “We just misjudged a ball in center field.”
Southpaw Nick Maronde 
tossed three innings in relief and 
was rolling along before MSU 
second baseman Nick Vickerson ambushed a fastball and cranked 
a solo homer that landed in the 
parking lot behind left field.
But the Gators rallied despite 
stranding eight runners in the 
first six innings, including four on 
walks. 
Austin Maddox shut the door 
in the ninth for his fourth save. 
After blowing a late lead 
against a top-five team, Bulldogs 
manager John Cohen was de-
spondent in the post-game press 
conference, saying, “We had a 
combination of eight walks or hit-by-pitches. … The grand slam is 
not just the issue, it’s how the two 
guys got on second and third. You 
just can’t hand a team like Florida 
those opportunities.”
UF will play Alabama today at 
4:30 p.m. 20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2011
AP Photo
Florida designated hitter Brian Johnson ripped a grand slam in the seventh inning Wednesday to help UF 
beat Mississippi State 7-5 in the Gators’ first round game at the Southeastern Conference tournament. 
Florida’s bats recover after 
stranding eight early on
BASEBALL , from page 18
Embree’s comeback carries team 
was the theme of Florida’s run through the 
NCAA Tournament this season. Embree took the momentum and a 5-4 lead before 
Burdette tied the match at six, forcing a tie-
breaker with everything on the line.
The two traded runs, but, with the tie-
breaker knotted up at six, Burdette faltered. 
The sophomore had an easy slam shot to 
take a crucial 7-6 lead, but almost whiffed at the ball and sent it into the net. Embree then claimed the last point to win the tie-breaker, and the national championship, for 
the Gators.
“That was the gutsiest performance I 
think I’ve ever seen,” Thornqvist said. “She 
was down 4-0 in the final set with 2,000 
people in the stands, and obviously it was 
a very partisan crowd.”
“It was so up and down,” Embree said. 
“I wanted to fight as long as I could, and I came out with the win. ... I knew I still had a chance no matter what the score was.”
Thornqvist said after the match that 
while he and his staff didn’t mention last year’s final to their team, he knew it was fresh in the minds of the three players that experienced it. 
But this time the  Gators return to 
Gainesville with a ring thanks to Embree’s re-markable comeback.
“I am proud Lauren 
got to be a big part about 
winning our champion-ship,” Thornqvist said. “She was disappointed after last year, so maybe 
this ring will help ease it a little. ... To be able to do it here at Stanford in front of 2,000 hostile fans with probably the hard-est-working team I’ve ever had is very, very 
rewarding.”TENNIS , from page 18
But now that the Gators have devel-
oped a potent small-ball approach to go 
with their backbreaking power, they’re going to be nearly impossible to stop.
UCLA coach Kelly Inyoue-Perez ad-
mitted as much following Sunday’s loss, 
saying, “We had to throw a no-hitter 
against them to make sure they weren’t 
going to advance runners.”
While Florida won’t be facing a 
third-string, bullpen catcher against Or -
egon this week, the strategy will remain 
the same. The Ducks’ catcher, Alexa Pe-terson, has thrown out just eight of 46 attempted base-stealers this year.
Walton said not to expect as many 
steals against Oregon, but he did say the 
small ball is here to stay.
“It opens things up,” UF’s coach 
said. “We scored a bunch of runs in that first inning against UCLA. How many 
of those hits go through the infield with the infield playing back? Not very many.”
After getting bounced from the 
World Series three years running, Wal-ton clearly saw this evolution as a ne-cessity. 
Now, the Ducks and Peterson not 
only have to travel cross-country to play in 90-plus-degree heat, but they must also plan for a team proven it can win in multiple ways.
As a catcher, DeFelice knows how 
Peterson will feel if the Gators continue streaking from bag to bag without hesi-tation. 
“It’s tough, it weighs on you mental-
ly,” she said. “That’s the difference be-tween a run and an inning being over.”
And it could be the difference be-
tween a World Series title and yet an-other close call.WATTS , from page 18
Embree
