We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE34 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida junior 
left-handed pitcher 
Alex Panteliodis 
will start UF’s game 
tonight against FAU 
after going nearly 
eight months 
without facing live 
batters following 
hip surgery.
See Story, Page 13.By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Tired of the Unite Party and 
Progress Party handing you fliers, 
following you between classes and trying to get you to wear a sticker?
Go vote, and you’ll get the magic 
hall pass that reads: “I voted.”
The polls are open from 8 a.m. to 
8 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday so students can vote for the next Student Body president and college senators who run Student Govern-ment.
Supervisor of Elections Amanda 
Griffin said freshmen, sophomores and students with fewer than 60 
credit hours can vote at Norman 
Hall, the first floor of Turlington, the Reitz Union, Springs Complex 
or Broward Hall.
Students with more than 60 cred-
its should vote at their colleges.To vote, students need a photo 
I.D., which could be a Gator 1 Card, 
driver’s license or passport.
Griffin said candidates, party 
supporters and volunteers can wear party T-shirts to the polls but can’t 
campaign within a certain distance 
of the booths as outlined in the  SG election codes.
For more information about elec-
tions, the ballot or polling locations, go to www.sg.ufl.edu/elections.
Indiana restaurant pulls billboards with references to cult
SOUTH BEND, Ind. — An Indiana res-
taurant that erected billboards referring to 
the 1978 Jonestown cult massacre in which more than 900 people died removed the signs following complaints about the signs.
Jeff Leslie, vice president of sales and 
marketing at Hacienda, acknowledged that the billboards were a mistake. He said the South Bend-based company ordered the signs removed less than two weeks into Ha-cienda’s new advertising campaign.“Our role is not to be controversial or 
even edgy. We want to be noticed — and there’s a difference,” Leslie told the South Bend Tribune. “We made a mistake and don’t want to have a negative image in the community.”
The billboards included the statement, 
“We’re like a cult with better Kool-Aid,” over a glass containing a mixed drink, as well as the phrase “To die for!”
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Partly 
cloudy
80/52FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13
Jesse Lash / Alligator
Members of the Progress Party campaign for Student Goverment Student Body presidential candidate 
Dave Schneider on Turlington Plaza on Monday afternoon.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
Elections run today, Wednesday
n RUSSELL DALTON, AUTHOR OF “THE GOOD CITI-
ZEN: HOW A YOUNGER GENERATION IS RESHAPIGN AMERICAN POLITICS,” SPOKE AT UF ON MONDAY.
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
What’s the matter with kids today?
Russell Dalton, an expert on citizenship and the politi-
cal process, was referring to the older generation’s nega-tive outlook on young people — especially in the realm of political activism.  
But according to Dalton, the good news is that the bad 
news is wrong.
Dalton, the founder and director of the 
Center for the Study of Democracy at the University of California-Irvine, spoke to a 
group of about 30 people at Pugh Hall on Monday at the 
Bob Graham Center for Public Service. 
During his presentation, Dalton frequently touched on 
his 2007 book, “The Good Citizen: How a Younger Gen-
eration Is Reshaping American Politics.” 
The book explains that although young voter turnout 
has decreased over the years, other areas of youth in-volvement have increased. 
“My reality is seeing the younger generation as not Expert: Today’s 
youth not as apathetic as some thinkBy ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer 
On Saturdays, they walk.
Not for their health, or their friends, but 
for their candidates.
They’re the students of POS4940, Politi-cal Internship.
And for three credits and 150 hours a 
semester, they stroll the campaign trail, 
passing fliers, hanging fliers and holding 
signs on busy street corners.
In the past five years, Daniel Smith, di-
rector of UF’s political campaigning pro-gram, said he’s had about 
100 of his students march-
ing through Gainesville mayoral and commission campaigns.
Smith said depending 
on the size of the race, students can take what-ever size role they want 
in the campaign.With bigger campaigns, he said, they 
usually play a smaller role. But with lo-cal and city campaigns, he’s seen students manning the wheel.
Ryan Garcia, a sophomore economics 
major at UF, is one of about 27 students working on the District 3 City Commis-sion election.Students campaign for candidates, class
OnCampu sZeller
SEE INTERNS, p AGE 5
SEE GRAHAM, p AGE 5They have political internshipsNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE34 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Spencer Christen,  
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Green Deen: Islam and the 
EnvironmentToday, 7 p.m.Reitz Union Rion Ballroom
Join Islam on Campus in wel-
coming author and speaker Ibrahim Abdul-Matin. His book, “Green Deen: What Islam Teaches about Protecting the Planet,” will be the topic of his presentation. He will explain how Muslims can be environ-mentally conscious because 
of Islamic tenets that urge 
such a life. The UF Office of Sustainability will give a brief presentation afterward. Visit islamoncampus.com for more information. 
Health Science Student 
Organization Wheelchair 
Basketball
Today, 7 p.m.  
Santa Fe Gymnasium  
Watch PT, OT, Health Science and Medical students compete for prizes while playing wheel-chair basketball. Donations are recommended and refreshments will be provided. All proceeds 
will benefit the Sidney Lanier 
School. For more details,check the Health Science Student Organization on Facebook. 
Student Government Elections
Today and Wednesday , 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.Various locations on campus
sg.ufl.edudonate, and all proceeds will be given to Relay for Life. 
Gainesville Rugby Club 5th 
Annual Poker Run
Saturday, 7 p.m.Gator CityThe Gainesville Hogs are host-ing their fifth annual poker run.  The best hand at the end of the 
night wins $100. For details go 
to gainesvillerugbyclub.com. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your submissions 
after above events. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.RUB Entertainment Presents 
Comedian Ben KronbergWednesday, 8 p.m.Orange & BrewWith Jimmy Kimmel Live, Last Call with Carson Daly , and even two appearances on ABC’s “Wipeout” to his cred-it, this man clearly has a sense of humor. Come out to laugh 
the night away as Kronberg 
shakes up the house with his clever one-liners, catchy songs and unique brand of self-dep-recating dark comedy.
A Spring of Hope
Wednesday, 9 p.m.  
TCBY on Archer  
The UF chapter of A Spring of Hope, a non-profit organiza-tion, is having its first fund-raiser of the semester. Come out to join a great cause and raise awareness and money to build a well in South Africa. For more information go to  
aspringofhope.org 
Theatre Strike Force improv 
marathonFriday, noon to midnightOrange & BrewStudents are encouraged to 
PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/54THUNDER
STORMS
79/57SUNNY
78/55PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/51PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/52
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
UF STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By SHELLEY GREENSPAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Student Government is giv-
ing local politicians a reason to put 
UF back on their radar.
While Gainesville voter turnout 
is usually pretty high compared to 
the rest of Florida, student-domi-nated precincts have much worse 
percentages. 
To promote the education of 
candidates and increase voter turn-
out, the UF Student Government Community Political Affairs Cabi-
net will be hosting a Gainesville 
City Commission Debate among District 3 Gainesville City Com-mission candidates. This particu-
lar area is largely populated with 
student residents, many of whom once lived in the dormitories.
The event will take place Thurs-
day in the Reitz Union Grand Ball-
room from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.
“I believe the student popula-
tion should take an active role in 
city politics because these repre-sentatives are making decisions on their behalf,” said Lindsay Davis, director of the community affairs political affairs cabinet.
Davis, the main organizer of the 
event, said the debate will focus on current student issues, such as the high cost of rent and utilities, cab fare gouging and underage 
drinking concerns. It will also give 
the candidates an opportunity to discuss their platform ideas with students.
The debate, hosted by UF politi-
cal science professor Daniel Smith, will be followed by an open forum during which the students can personally address the candidates 
with their concerns.
Stacy Eichner, president of UF College Democrats, said hosting 
the debate on campus allows more students to know a City Com-
mission election is coming up. It 
provides students an opportunity to become educated on the issues and candidates so they are moti-
vated to go out and vote on March 
15.
“Students will realize the im-
portance of having a voice in the city election since Gainesville is 
most students’ home for four years 
or more,” she said.City Commission candidates to debate on campus ThursdayBy KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer 
Kyle Weber swore the girl was 17, but 
when he started sending sexually explicit 
pictures from his cell phone to a 15-year-old, it was the beginning of series of events that would land him in jail.
Weber, 22, met the girl a few days be-
fore his arrest on Sunday while she was shopping with her mother in Hot Topic where Weber was working, according to a Gainesville Police report.
They exchanged numbers and when he 
asked her how old she was, she said 17. Ac-cording to Florida law, someone over 18 but under the age of 24 may legally have 
sex with a minor 16 or older.
He sent her a picture of his penis over 
texts. He then met up with her for dinner 
and later had sex with her.
Unfortunately for Weber, the girl was underaged.
The sexual act happened Wednesday. 
By 8:15 p.m. Sunday, Weber had been ar -
rested.
After being read his rights, Weber told 
police he thought she’d been 17 because that’s what she told him. He was adamant that if he’d known she was only 15 he wouldn’t have become involved.
Weber was taken to jail on 
one felony count of commit-ting lewd or lascivious bat-tery on a person under 16 and 
another felony count of transmitting mail 
harmful to minors via an electronic device.
Weber was released by Alachua County 
Judge Tom Jaworski at 1:10 p.m. Monday 
on the conditions that he live with his par -
ents and use a cell phone without any tex-ting privileges. His release is not a verdict and Weber will have to come back to court at a later date to have his hearing.Man arrested for sexting, 
sleeping with 15-year-oldn THE CITY HAS HIRED A FIRM 
TO RESEARCH WHICH BUILDINGS COULD BE DEVELOPED.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
A plan to modernize downtown 
Gainesville has been mapped out and 
color-coded.
So far, Brown & Cullen Inc., an en-
gineering consulting company, has laid out a map of downtown that spreads from Sixth Street to 13th Street and Uni-versity Avenue to Fifth Avenue, outlin-
ing what buildings are in the area and 
which ones could be developed.
Gainesville City Commissioners 
asked the company Monday to look into marking areas where more park-ing and trees could be added.
Jay Brown, president and principal 
engineer of the company, said the cur -
rent research group hadn’t been asked 
to look into parking or plants, but a 
later study could look into both.“Quite frankly, parking wasn’t a big 
part of our study,” he said. “But we re-alized quickly that we can’t ignore it.”
Commissioner Warren Nielsen said 
a bus shuttle system could be set up to get people to and from downtown.
“The issue of parking is something 
we need to hit head on,” he said.
Commissioner Randy Wells cau-
tioned not to overestimate the number 
of people who will drive downtown.
“We are all in-
clined to think that 
we’re going to jump in our cars and we’re going to drive there,” he said.
The company’s 
current research 
found that out of the 204 building spac-es downtown, 141 could be renovated 
if the owners choose.
Brown said renovations are option-
al, but the city is looking to have taller 
buildings, perhaps eight stories high, that can fit more businesses and apart-ments.City looks at possible 
downtown renovations
Nielsen
“I believe the student 
population should take an 
active role in city politics...”
Lindsay Davis
director of community affairs 
political affairs cabinetNewsLocalASSOCIATED PRESS
The first major protests to hit an OPEC 
country put the oil industry on edge Mon-
day, sending crude prices jumping and 
raising speculation about the use of emer -
gency oil reserves that have only been 
touched twice in two decades.
In addition to Libya, the industry is 
closely watching protests in Algeria, Bah-rain and Iran, the second-largest crude ex-porter in the OPEC behind Saudi Arabia.
“The concerns in the market go be-
yond Libya,” said Victor Shum, an energy analyst with Purvin & Gertz in Singapore. “It’s unlikely we’re going to see any mean-ingful disruption of oil from the Middle 
East or North Africa, but the spread of this 
unrest has raised anxieties.”
Libya is more important to the oil in-
dustry than Egypt or Tunisia, scenes of the previous upheaval in North Africa. Oil passes through Egypt, where protesters 
recently forced out longtime ruler Hosni 
Mubarak, but Egypt is not an exporter. Tu-nisia is a minor exporter.
Libya exports some 1.1 million barrels 
of crude a day from production of 1.6 mil-lion barrels — ranking it about 17th among world oil producers. And it has the largest proven oil reserves in Africa.
The United States, the world’s larg-
est consumer of oil, does not import any petroleum from Libya. But disruptions elsewhere can raise the price of oil world-
wide.
Even more worrisome for oil markets 
is the potential for instability to spread 
to other countries in the Organization of 
Petroleum Exporting Countries, especially 
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
Saudi Arabia has not been the scene 
of protests, but the kingdom sits atop the world’s largest reserves of conventional 
crude.
“The elephant in the room that has 
the potential to really ignite the markets 
is Saudi Arabia,” said senior commodity 
analyst Edward Meir at MF Global in New 
York.
Oil prices jumped $4.03 a barrel on 
Monday, with benchmark crude for March delivery at $90.23 in electronic trading on 
the New York Mercantile Exchange. Regu-lar trading in U.S. markets was closed for 
the Presidents’ Day holiday, and the thin trading volumes had the potential to am-plify price fluctuations.
Some in the industry had their eye on 
world oil reserves that can be tapped if production is threatened or curtailed. The reserves have only been opened twice — 
after Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and the 
first Gulf War in 1991.
David Fyfe, head of the oil industry 
and markets division at the International Energy Agency, said the agency’s mem-
ber countries have reserves of 1.6 billion 
barrels of oil — equivalent to the amount of crude the U.S. imports in almost six months.
The agency’s members are mainly oil-
consuming industrial nations such as the United States, Japan, Britain and Germa-ny.
Using government oil supplies to sta-
bilize the oil market is “very much a last resort, but it’s worth pointing out that it exists and has been used before when sup-plies have been disrupted,” he said.
Fyfe said there are differences between 
now and the last time the world experi-enced widespread oil shortages and price increases, in 2008, including more spare capacity and greater OPEC production.
J.P . Morgan analyst Lawrence Eagles 
wrote in a note to investors that history shows that political turmoil does not nec-essarily hurt the flow of oil.
“Any government in an oil-producing 
country will ultimately need the revenue from oil production,” he wrote. “As such, there is a natural tendency for oil flows to continue over time.”
American oil companies were barred 
from doing business in Libya until the U.S. lifted its embargo in 2004. 
Since then, contracts between Libya and 
foreign oil companies have been frustrat-
ing for both sides, said PFC Energy analyst David Kirsch.
The amount of oil and natural gas dis-
covered has been disappointing, and oil 
companies have felt that the contracts were not generous enough, given the lim-ited size of new discoveries, Kirsch said.
If the Gadhafi government falls, oil 
companies may find that the new govern-ment demands terms even more favorable to Libya and less favorable to the oil com-panies, Kirsch said.
U.K.-based BP and Germany’s Winter -
shall temporarily suspended operations in Libya on Monday, while Italy’s Eni said production continued normally. Some 
firms also began evacuating foreign em-
ployees.
BP evacuated around 40 expatriate staff 
and their families, halting operations just four years after the company returned to 
Libya following a 30-year hiatus. In 2007, 
BP signed a deal worth at least $900 mil-lion in 2007 to explore in Libya.
The company said it would monitor the 
situation on a daily basis, but stressed that offshore operations in the region were still open and that the closure would not effect current production.
Among U.S. oil companies, ConocoPhil-
lips and Marathon Oil Corp. each have a 16 percent interest in an oil drilling opera-tion in Libya, with almost 60 percent held by Libya’s state-run oil company. Conoco-
Phillips spokesman John McLemore said 
the company is monitoring the situation but had no comment on the security of its workers there.
Marathon said it has evacuated depen-
dents of expatriate workers was “taking the necessary steps to ensure the safety and security” of those who remained. The company said it was not aware of any dis-
ruptions to production.
Occidental Petroleum Corp., the first 
American company to resume operations 
in Libya when the U.S. government lifted sanctions, did not immediately return a 
call seeking comment. Last year, Occiden-
tal produced 13,000 barrels of oil, gas and liquids per day in Libya.
Exxon Mobil Corp., which has licenses 
for offshore drilling near Libya but no ac-tive drilling now, said it did not discuss security matters.4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011
AP Photo 
In this Feb. 16, 2011 photo, Brian Sprague returns the nozzle to the pump after filling 
his car’s tank with gas in Philadelphia. Oil prices hovered below $87 a barrel Friday. 
INTERNATIONALOil industry worries unrest in Libya could spreadBy DANIELA ABRATT
Alligator Contributing Writer 
How loud is the roar of the 
crowd when the Gators score a 
touchdown? 
What about the screams of 
crazed fans at the Dave Matthews 
Band concert?
Up the Volume is one of the iP-
hone’s latest applications and it’s the only “excitement” meter that enables users to measure noise levels. 
It is also the first app released 
by one of Gainesville’s newest businesses, Maito Interactive LLC.
“If you’re at a house party, and everyone’s going crazy over some song, take a picture of your friends, measure the volume lev-
el and put it on Facebook,” said 
Anthony Albritton, co-founder of Maito Interactive. 
Albritton said the readings 
from the app allow people to have fun sharing ratings with friends.
“It’s just a fun app to have. It 
allows you to get anything you’re excited about to Facebook and 
your friends,” he said.
Up the Volume was just re-
leased Saturday at the iPhone 
App Store, and it is available for 
a  promotional two-week period 
for free. 
Albritton said a version for Android will be released soon.
The app estimates the decibel 
reading from how much noise 
the microphone detects and con-
verts it into a rating of 0 to 100, he said. 
It features playful animations 
and phrases that correspond to 
the various noise lev-els.
A Facebook button 
enables users to link 
the rating directly to their account and post it to their wall. 
There is also a camera link 
that allows users to take a photo 
without leaving the app, save the 
photo to the camera and return to re-measure the excitement level, he said.
Albritton, a UF alumnus and 
entrepreneurship master’s stu-
dent, joined forces with two of his 
friends in September of last year. 
After much discussion and 
work, they officially opened Mai-
to Interactive in November.
Jeremy Fowers, co-founder 
and a doctoral student in elec-
trical engineering at UF, said he and his colleagues have similar 
mindsets concerning their ideas 
but different creative tendencies, which ultimately creates more well-rounded products.
“A lot of developers are just 
looking to make a quick buck with flashlight and fart apps, but we’re actually trying to make a differ -
ence,” he said. “We want people 
to come together to experience 
the world with their friends.”
Avi Leavitt, co-founder and 
a computer engineering senior at UF, said Up the Volume is the 
stepping stone app for the com-
pany, created before they estab-lished their mission. 
He said their future apps will 
uphold the values of their mis-sion and introduce to society a new way of using technology — to build communities. 
“Other companies create ap-
plications just for personal enter -
tainment,” he said. “We want to reverse the trend of being enter -
tained by devices instead of the 
people around us.” UF alumni create iPhone app to measure noise
Plans are in the works for an Android version
StudentLifeTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
The Music Scene
A crowd of partygoers throw their hands in the air during a show by Wolfgang Gartner at The 
Vault on Nov. 15, 2010. There has been an increase of performances by electro, dubstep and house DJs like Steve Aoki, who put on a show Monday night. 
He pointed to increases in  
community action among youth
as pessimistic,” Dalton said. “I’m 
wondering why old people dislike young people so much.” 
He said the common misconcep-
tion is that youth is the cause of the decline in political participation.  
“When voting goes down, we 
don’t see what’s coming up on the other side,” he said. 
Positives include the increases of 
youth in volunteerism, community action, Internet activism and boy-
cotting. 
Kelly Hodoval, a graduate of 
the UF environmental engineering 
program,was one of those in atten-
dance at the free, public presenta-
tion.
“It was really insightful,” she 
said. “You do primarily hear the negative approach.” 
Hodoval said she hopes Dalton’s 
studies become the more wide-ly known information about the 
younger generation’s involvement 
in politics. 
Ann Henderson, the center’s 
director, said that in light of recent negative statistics, hearing Dalton’s 
words was encouraging. 
“Our state ranks 46 out of 50 in 
civic health,” Henderson said. “But 
what we heard here is some good 
news.”GRAHAM , from page 1
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Russell Dalton from the Center for the Study of Democracy at the University of California - Irvine 
speaks in Pugh Hall on Monday evening.
Rob Zeller’s city campaign 
employs the most interns
Garcia is an intern with City 
Commission hopeful and local 
bar and restaurant owner Rob 
Zeller. 
Other students are working 
with candidates Susan Bottcher, Lauren Poe and Thomas Hawk-ins.
The Zeller campaign has the 
most interns.
Although the race is nonparti-
san, Zeller received the unofficial endorsement of UF College Re-
publicans.
On weekend mornings, Garcia 
laces up his running shoes and 
takes to neighborhood streets for 
five hours with about 15 of his classmates for the Zeller cam-paign.
Zeller said the students help 
him reach a bigger audience than he and his staff could.
“One person could never run 
a campaign themselves,” Zeller said.
Bryan Griffin, Zeller’s cam-
paign manager, said the student interns get something out of the deal, too.
“They’re getting the real-
world experience in this sort of clockwork mechanism that is the campaign,” he said.
So far, he has them planning 
campaign events, mapping their 
walks and drawing up phone call data-bases.
Next week, Zeller 
plans to have his in-
terns call early voters.
Garcia is on his fourth cam-
paign internship, including 
working on Gov. Rick Scott’s 
campaign. 
He will be canvassing this Sat-
urday, too.
“The neighborhoods don’t 
seem that big,” he said. “But after a while, they start seeming pretty long.”INTERNS , from page 1
NewsLocal
NATIONAL
ASSOCIATED PRESS
TUCSON, Ariz. — Two former 
presidents — one Republican, the 
other a Democrat — will chair a new national institute to promote 
civility in political discourse in 
the city where U.S. Rep. Gabrielle 
Giffords was severely wounded 
in a shooting rampage that left six 
dead, officials announced Mon-
day.
The National Institute for Civil 
Discourse will be run by the Uni-versity of Arizona. Former presi-
dents George H.W. Bush and Bill 
Clinton will serve as its honorary 
co-chairmen.
“Our country needs a setting for political debate that is both frank 
and civil, and the National Insti-tute for Civil Discourse can make 
a significant contribution toward 
reaching this goal,” Bush said in a 
prepared statement.
Clinton said the institute “can 
elevate the tone of dialogue in our 
country, and in so doing, help us to 
keep moving toward ‘a more per -
fect union.’”
Giffords, D-Tucson, was shot in 
the head during a meet-and-greet 
Jan. 8 outside a local grocery store. 
A federal judge and five others 
were killed. Giffords was among 
13 people injured.
While it is widely suspected 
that Jared Loughner, 22, who faces charges in the shooting, suffers 
from mental illness, many have fo-cused on the bitter political climate 
in which the assault occurred.
Shortly before the rampage, 
Giffords herself wrote an e-mail to 
Trey Grayson, di-
rector of Harvard 
University’s In-
stitute of Politics, 
complaining of 
the incendiary 
rhetoric in her last campaign, 
and asking if his 
group couldn’t do something.
“Well, today the congresswom -
an’s own hometown university has decided to do just that,” said Fred DuVal, vice chairman of the 
Arizona Board of Regents. “And Trey Grayson ... has joined OUR 
board.”
The institute’s goal is to devel-
op programs, stage conferences, 
design curricula and encourage re-
search intended to promote more 
civility in the political arena, said 
its director, Brint Milward. 
The institute — funded in part 
by a grant from Tucson-based 
health care provider Providence Service Corp. and to be housed 
in one of firm’s downtown build-
ings — would cooperate with sim-
ilar organizations and institutions 
across the country, Milward said, 
“to create an archipelago of orga-nizations that want to promote a 
different style of politics.”
DuVal said the institute might 
even be able to influence “the dark arts of cable TV .” Greta Van Sus-
teren, host of the Fox News Chan-
nel’s “On the Record,” is among 
those named to the institute’s 
board.
Milward said the institute’s first 
event will be an executive forum 
that will bring together “a very di-
verse and very well-known group of individuals, all of whom have 
thought deeply about the problems 
of our politics and the benefits of 
a more civil discourse that would 
bring us help in governing the 
United States more effectively.” University of Arizona starts national civility institute
Giffords
“It was really insightful. 
You do primarily hear the        
negative approach.” 
Kelly Hodoval
UF graduateThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Monday’s question: Which party 
do you support in the SG elections?Today’s question: Did you vote in SG elections?
42% UNITE57% PROGRESS
99 TOTAL VOTESCheeseheads United 
The Wisconsin union 
crisis took us by sur -
prise. 
We first heard about it 
when state senators started fleeing the Capitol build-ing. That flight struck us as 
odd, but the photos of pro-
testors jamming the build-ing by the thousands stuck with us even more. 
As the nation watches 
politicians such as Gov. Scott 
Walker, waiting for the state 
to make some progress on 
its budget cuts in one way or another, we want to put them in the background for a moment. Let’s recognize the determination of the people sleeping inside the Wiscon-
sin State Capitol just to wake 
up for another day of pro-tests in the morning. 
If there was a question 
about the impact of the de-
cisions the state is making about the policies on gov-ernment employees, it has been answered thousands of times.
Not only are the mem-
bers of the unions involved making their voices heard, but people from other countries are supporting 
them by ordering pizza for 
them. 
Why are people around 
the globe trying to ensure these people stick to their 
guns? 
Maybe it’s because 
watching a country known 
for the rights of its people 
seems to be trading fairness 
for money. 
It’s a balance that must 
be struck, but it may be that the Egyptians and Chi-
nese helping the Wisconsin 
teachers are seeing a big-ger picture which the state legislators are missing. For 
them, our country has pre-
sented an important ques-tion: Must we sell ideals for practical solutions?
American Lit 3-D
Film gimmick has no 
place in some films
We’ve already established that we’re a little old-
school with our love for physical books. While we learn to slowly embrace the digital reading 
revolution, we’ve overlooked another change. The influx of 3-D movies has been well-documented and discussed, but for the most part we haven’t worried about the rea-soning behind the fad. If filmmakers want us to feel like 
those action-movie explosions are happening in our faces, 
so be it. 
Someone has to draw a line on the films which warrant 
the treatment and those which don’t. Going back to our bibliophile backgrounds, we think it’s time to draw ours.
The forthcoming film adaption of “The Great Gatsby” 
will be popping off the screen at audiences. Sorry, but shov-ing popcorn down our gullets while watching the drunken adventures and lazy, yet sexually tense afternoons of 1920s 
well-to-dos doesn’t sound appealing. 
Perhaps the director would argue the ability of the 3-D 
technology to lure younger viewers to the cinema. We 
would argue that putting an already slow-starting story in this format would help bore that demographic to tears.
For a tale that places the reader or viewer so thoroughly 
in a time and place, yet touches on themes everyone can understand, a gimmick seems to undersell the strength of the story itself.
We can see it now: “But Daisy is lounging right at me!”
Social network gains staying power
In high school, our designated picture taker was Katie. 
Pictures were a must, and somebody had to take on the burden of snapping all the photos we’d instantly upload 
to Facebook and comment on for weeks. Katie never com-plained; in fact, she enjoyed it to a point it could get annoy-
ing. 
Did we need pictures in front of the pool where we spent 
uneventful summer days? These events were so routine 
there wasn’t much excitement in looking back on them. Katie persisted, and when I’d ask why, she’d always say the same thing: “When I have a family, these will all be preserved on Facebook for us to look at, and I want to remember it all.” 
Will Facebook still be around when I’m celebrating my 
30th birthday? 
Had you asked my sixth-grade self the same question 
about MySpace, I would have told you without a doubt that MySpace would never die. A self-proclaimed addict, I would spend hours changing my layout, agonizing over my Top 8, picking my page’s music and decorating it with various glit-tery images and quotes. Simply put, nothing was threatening to move in and take over this beloved outlet. 
Enter Facebook, now the giant in social networking. Originally only available to Harvard students, Facebook 
has stretched well beyond its start-up status and commands countless hours of people’s days, young and old. Essentially everybody is on Facebook, using it for social purposes, busi-ness networking and to connect with old acquaintances. 
You already know this, of course, as you likely utilize it 
daily for any number of these purposes. As of now, Face-book seems unstoppable, but does it face the fate of all social networking sites thus far? Put less eloquently , will Facebook ever die? For several reasons, I don’t think so. 
Facebook is legitimate. MySpace committed slow suicide 
by allowing users to create fake profiles, which led to pedo-phile publicity and spamming. Friend requests and ads for Viagra started coming in by the hundreds, littering people’s pages with so much spam it was almost impossible to pick out the legitimate material. When users such as SeXXXykitten69 be-gan messaging me to chat, I sought greener pastures. 
The exodus of MySpace addicts 
left a target market hungry for the benefits of social networking, so Facebook skyrocketed. In a feeble attempt to regain users, MySpace incorporated popular Facebook 
features such as tagging pictures and allowing status up-dates, but alas, it was too late. Users flocked to the environ-ment fostered my Mark Zuckerberg’s creation and enjoyed features such as “people you may know,” which is allowed 
only because of the criteria that users create real profiles, with 
real email addresses, and agree to monitored content. 
Facebook is more than just a fad; it’s quickly become the 
most effective tool available for networking in all contexts, business and social, and its effect is unparalleled by any other blog or file sharing site available. It boasts the most advertis-ers of any website, including Google, thus tightening its grip on power in market share. It has an ability to pool users of all ages, drawing in adults who use it for their own network-
ing or to monitor their kids, a feature that MySpace failed to 
provide. 
People will never stop enjoying socializing or sharing 
pictures and daily updates, not to mention the addiction ele-ment (I’ve checked it twice since beginning this column).
So will Katie be able to log into Facebook in 15 years and 
show her family pictures from our high school homecoming dances? I wager yes. 
Unless Facebook becomes littered with the spam, glit-
tery layouts and pedophiles that sadly destroyed MySpace, it will continue to assist social interaction among people of all ages.
Laura Ellermeyer is a first-year finance major. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Laura Ellermeyer
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Travis Hornsby , the author of 
a letter published Monday in support of block tuition, has 
unfortunately taken sips of the block tuition Kool-Aid. Over the past few 
months, I’ve heard the administra-
tion espouse the virtues of block tuition, all the while trying to sweep under the rug its dirty little secrets. The fact of the matter is this plan will cost the average student more; there is no way around it. 
I am told that this will increase 
graduation rates and raise our rank-
ings. Graduation rates barely play 
a role in any college ranking sys-tem. Can you guess what’s a more important factor? Low acceptance rates – the very thing the adminis-tration keeps claiming it’s trying to raise! You know all of those schools we keep being told have flat-rate tu-ition? Most of them base it on a 12 
credit-hour course load, not the 15 credit-hour 
one UF plans to do. Yet s o m e h o w, 
they rank above us. Block tuition is 
likely to actually hurt our rankings.
In the four years I have been 
here, our tuition and fees have been 
raised and raised while the percent-age of these fees going directly back to students has gotten smaller and smaller. Unfortunately, these are the sort of the things hidden from the average student. So I’m telling you 
now: Stop being robbed blindly . We 
all understand the budget problems of the university, but we aren’t chil-dren. Let’s stop allowing them to lie to us about where our money goes. This election, vote against block tu-ition and finally send a message. 
Sean Johnson is a UF student and 
the president of Inter-Residence Hous-
ing Association.Block tuition proposal 
would rob UF studentsGuest column
Sean Johnson
Speaking Out
I remember when I first learned about drugs. At the mere 
age of 9, I was under the influence — of D.A.R.E.
The world of illicit drugs seemed mysterious and dan-
gerous but never particularly alluring. Since then, my dis-positions toward the recreational use of substances, such as 
alcohol and marijuana, have mostly dissipated.
On the other hand, I have conceded that the use of co-
caine and other illicit drugs often transcend recreation and 
enter the territory of disruption.
For this very reason, I saw Nicholas Goeders’ cocaine 
dependency research as substantially beneficial to society. However, I find it disconcerting that everyone wouldn’t agree. Goeders heads the Department of Pharmacology, Tox-icology and Neuroscience at the LSU Health Sciences Center 
in Shreveport.
His research centers on EMB-001, a drug in the clinical 
trial phase that has the potential to end dependency on co-
caine and other substances.
People like to trumpet the idea of drug abuse prevention 
as if it means anything. Preventative measures and preemp-tive strikes have been the main tactics of America’s 40-year, $1-trillion war on drugs and haven’t generated any excep-tional results. Since the 1970s, the National Survey on Drug 
Use and Health has annually compiled statistics on citizens 
who have abused drugs within one month of taking the sur -
vey.This statistic, which follows those 
aged 12 and older, has been as high as 14.1 percent of the population in 1979 and as low as 5.9 in 1993. The most re-
cent figures of 1999-2009 show a steady rise from 6.3 percent 
to 8.7 percent.
While some would use this as evidence to pump more 
money and human resources into the collective drug war gi-
ant, I can only interpret these oscillating results as affirma-tion that the war on drugs is wasteful.
The solution to drug dependency does not require vio-
lence. European countries, like Portugal and Switzerland, are now instituting alternative drug policies focusing on treatment, rather than criminalization and incarceration.
By decriminalizing illicit drugs in 2000 and treating their 
abuse as a public health problem rather than a crime prob-lem, Portugal has transformed entire communities from hor -
rific drug slums to blue-collar towns. According to the Asso -
ciated Press, one such community is Casal Ventoso, a place where thousands of heroine users used to assemble.
Rather than incarceration, the country’s first response is 
to place addicts in rehabilitation centers with a fine for those who don’t comply.
In Switzerland, no one has died from heroine overdose 
since 1994 because of pro-treatment policies — an incredibly foreign idea here in the U.S. But the U.S. is starting to take notice. John Roman, a re-
searcher at the Urban Institute’s Justice Policy Center, found that handling addicts as treatable patients would cost the United States $13 billion but would save $40 billion in the process.
With a population substantially larger than that of Portu-
gal, it’s not advisable to decriminalize all drug use like that country has. Despite this, we should eliminate our prejudice toward drug users as lost souls to society who need to be locked away. These people need assistance.
Although the NSDUH reported in 2009 that 23 million 
Americans have tried cocaine, only 1.1 million people were considered dependent on the substance. Even if we imple-ment a policy that prevents 90 percent of all cocaine depen-
dence, we’d still be left will 110,000 addicts who need treat-
ment. 
Whether it’s illegal, drug abuse will always exist in our 
society, and these people can’t be abandoned. This is pre-cisely why Goeders’ work is important. Breakthroughs like his will become the foundation for a shift in the way political policy handles addiction.
Allowing addicts to overcome their drug dependencies 
isn’t an unwarranted reward. It’s a humane right that needs 
to gain recognition.
Chris Freyder is a columnist for The Daily Reveille at Louisi -
ana State University.Drug addiction stigma shouldn’t mean violence, abandonmentUWire
Chris Freyder
UWireASSOCIATED PRESS
AUSTIN, Texas — Texas is preparing to 
give college students and professors the right 
to carry guns on campus, adding momentum to a national campaign to open this part of so-ciety to firearms.
More than half the members of the Texas 
House have signed on as co-authors of a mea-sure directing universities to allow concealed handguns. The Senate passed a similar bill in 2009 and is expected to do so again. Republi-can Gov . Rick Perry , who sometimes packs a pistol when he jogs, has said he’s in favor of the idea.
Texas has become a prime battleground 
for the issue because of its gun culture and its size, with 38 public universities and more than 500,000 students. It would become the second state, following Utah, to pass such a broad-based law. Colorado gives colleges the option and several have allowed handguns.
Supporters of the legislation argue that 
gun violence on campuses, such as the mass shootings at Virginia Tech in 2007 and North-
ern Illinois in 2008, show that the best defense 
against a gunman is students who can shoot back.
“It’s strictly a matter of self-defense,” said 
state Sen. Jeff Wentworth, R-San Antonio. “I don’t ever want to see repeated on a Texas col-lege campus what happened at Virginia Tech, where some deranged, suicidal madman goes into a building and is able to pick off totally 
defenseless kids like sitting ducks.”
Until the Virginia Tech incident, the worst 
college shooting in U.S. history occurred at 
the University of Texas, when sniper Charles Whitman went to the top of the administra-tion tower in 1966 and killed 16 people and wounded dozens. Last September, a Univer -
sity of Texas student fired several shots from an assault rifle before killing himself.
Similar firearms measures have been pro-
posed in about a dozen other states, but all face strong opposition, especially from col-lege leaders. In Oklahoma, all 25 public col-lege and university presidents declared their opposition to a concealed carry proposal.
“There is no scenario where allowing con-
cealed weapons on college campuses will do anything other than create a more dangerous environment for students, faculty, staff and 
visitors,” Oklahoma Chancellor of Higher 
Education Glen Johnson said in January.
University of Texas President William 
Powers has opposed concealed handguns on campus, saying the mix of students, guns and campus parties is too volatile.
Guns occupy a special place in Texas cul-
ture. Politicians often tout owning a gun as essential to being Texan. Concealed handgun license holders are allowed to skip the metal detectors that scan Capitol visitors for guns, knives and other contraband.Guns on campus bills have been rejected 
in 23 states since 2007, but gun control activ-
ists acknowledge it will be difficult to stop the 
Texas bill from passing this year. 
“Things do look bleak,” said Colin God-
dard, assistant director of federal legislation for the Brady Campaign Against Gun Vio-lence, who was in Austin recently to lobby against the Texas bills.
Goddard was a student at Virginia Tech 
when he was shot four times in his French 
class. Student Seung-Hui Cho killed 32 peo-
ple, including 10 in Goddard’s classroom, be-fore shooting himself. Goddard dismisses the idea that another student with a gun could have stopped the killer.
“People tell me that if they would have 
been there, they would have shot that guy . That offends me,” Goddard said. “People want to be the hero, I understand that. They 
play video games and they think they under -
stand the reality. It’s nothing like that.”
Texas enacted its concealed handgun law 
in 1995, allowing people 21 or older to carry 
weapons if they pass a training course and a background check. The state had 461,724 li-cense holders as of Dec. 31, according to the state Department of Public Safety.
Businesses, schools and churches can set 
rules banning guns on their premises. On col-lege campuses, guns are prohibited in build-ings, dorms and certain grounds around them.Opponents of campus gun rights say students and faculty would live in fear of their classmates and colleagues, not knowing who might pull a gun over a poor grade, a broken romance or a drunken fraternity argument.
Frankie Shulkin, a first-year law student at 
the University of Texas, said he doesn’t think he’d feel safer if other students in his classes had guns.
“If I was taking an exam and knew the 
person next to me had one, I don’t know how comfortable I would feel,” he said. “I am in fa-vor of guns rights and your typical conserva-tive guy, but the classroom thing bugs me.”
Wentworth said he heard the “blood on 
the streets” warnings when Texas first passed the concealed handgun law. “They said we’d have shootouts at every intersection,” he said. “None of that has happened.”8, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011
AP Photo
In this April 15, 2010, file photo, Texas Republican Gov. Rick Perry fires a six shooter filled 
with blanks as NASCAR driver Colin Braun looks on in downtown Fort Worth, Texas. 
NATIONALTexas poised to pass bill allowing guns on campusClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-
11-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
***6 Bedroom House***
Walk to class. Pool. 2 living rooms. Game 
room. Ample Parking. Move in August 5th. 
Please contact John @ 561-866-8234 for 
additional info.
2-25-4-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1600
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-22-11-24-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    3-3-11-30-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-22-11-14-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, 5 min 
from bus. Big yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D incl. Fireplace in living rm & game rm w/ bar area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1600/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-22-11-14-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-23/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com2-22-11-9-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
Beautiful. 1bd. 1ba. loft 5 min on freeway 
from SFC Renovated with tile & carpet.Pool,
Clubhouse, Exercise Room, Quiet location.
$425mo $425sec. $45appl. fee.
472-6491.
3-1-11-10-2
4BR/2BA apt. $900/mo.
Will pay $500 for Section 8 tenants.
Holly Heights. 352-498-3035,email jholifield1@gmail.com    2-22-5-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-4-11-12-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Downtown garage/studio apt, off-street
parking, privacy. Behind Hippodrome, on 
bus lines. $420/mo, 1st, last and sec.
Call 352 373-6551, leave message.
3-4-9-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts
3 BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft.
Large Rooms, Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.
Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo $600 Deposit
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
216 SW 12th Street.
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C
Carpet, Across from UF Stadium
1830 NW 1st Avenue $295/Mo, $300 
Deposit
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit
2-22-11-1-2
Short term lease. Quiet, clean effi-
ciency. Archer Rd. View to woods.
Call 352 316-2966                     2-28-11-5-2
Arlington Square. Right downtown! Bus: 1&5. 
5 min bike to campus/15min walk. 2BR/2BA townhouse: high ceilings, in courtyard w/ pool. May-July. Unfurn/util not included. $470/person. 352 318 1014. jsmyth@ufl.edu   3-1-10-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.    3-1-10-4
Looking for a male roommate who is very nice 
& easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo util 
& dish network tv incl. If interested call Joe at 
331-4239 or 240-4536. No smokers, alcohol, 
drugs or overnight guests please.  2-25-7-4
Perfect for female student or young profes-
sional. Quiet, safe, split-plan home in Haile. Has furnished BR & BA, utils & kitchen use, W/D. $375. Please leave message after 11am 352-377-1648   2-24-11-5-410, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still 
in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
● GRASS-FED BEEF FOR FREEZER ●
$2/lb live weight. Buy whole, half, quarter.
USDA, no hormones, no pesticides,locally grown. Call 352-498-3035 orjholifield1@gmail.com   2-22-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
2-25-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 11
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications 
using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small 
company in G’ville, great work environment. 
About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   
2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks 
P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, 
monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. 
About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   
2-25-11-17-14
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITORNETWORK ASSTSALES CONSULTANTSCEO ASSISTANTFull time positions.Send resume to hr@gleim.comwww.gleim.com         3-14-11-10-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    2-28-11-10-14
Office Asst Paid Internship in Alachua. 
$12.00 hourly 10-15 hours weekly. Flexible schedule. Knowledge of Quickbooks a plus. Email resume to BiopressInfo@gmail.com.   3-1-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive po-
sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14
6DollarShirts.com needs local models ages 
18-22 for a photo shoot for all of our current t-shirts. Send an email to robinw@threadpit.com and tell us about yourself and photos (face and full body).   2-23-11-5-14
PERSONAL CARE ASSISTANT NEEDED
for developmentally disabled female in a wheelchair. M, W, F. 9am - 3pm. $10/hr. Must be able to lift client & have a car. 352-384-0909   2-23-11-5-14
COMPANION NEEDED
for developmentally disabled female in a wheelchair. M, W, F. 3pm - 8pm. $10/hr. Must be able to lift client & have a car. 352-384-0909   2-23-11-5-14
VOLUNTEER NEEDED - Website/social 
networking help for growing aerospace & WWII museum. Flexible schedule. Exp. w/Joomla and WordPress required. Resume to susan@wingsofdreams.org    2-24-5-14UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-4-11-11-14
TYPIST FOR PROFESSIONAL OFFICE 
NEAR CAMPUS. As needed basis. Must 
be fast/accurate/dependable. Send email to 
combehserv@gmail.com    2-24-11-5-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems seeks 
sales consultants for Gainesville & Ocala.  
Must have reliable transportation. BG Check 
and Drug Test Required. Fax resume to 352-
376-9236 or e-mail info@cpss.net.   3-3-11-
10-14
Mystery shoppers needed to evaluate cus-
tomer service at local businesses. No fee to 
register - we pay you! Please register at our 
website: www.shopperscritique.com.   2-24-
4-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
PT Tennis Clay-Court & Gen Maintenance 
Haile Plantation C.C. 6:30-9:30am shift + 1 wkend day, 10-15 hrs/wk. Must be reliable/responsibe. Tennis exp + G'ville residence a+. Bob 335-4105                    2-28-11-5-2
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-0069 to schedule an appointment todayprogreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordableGrammar, conversation, vocabularyContact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     3-16-1-15FREE TUTORING! Prepare for Mid-terms at the Teaching Center and Reading & Writing Center in Broward Hall. TC offers live tutor-
ing – plus TV & podcasts – in various math, 
science & other classes; see
www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu for courses and times.  RWC offers help with any writing as-signment; see www.at.ufl.edu/rwcenter for 
details.    2-25-5-20
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF students
GatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.   2-23-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comor call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Earn $15 for participating in a 90-minute 
research study. Must be 18-28 years old & 
speak Spanish & English fluently. Contact 
Sabra Pelham by e-mail (spelham@ufl.edu) 
for details about how to sign up.   2-24-5-20
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CHOW NOW FOOD TRUCK
Tuesdays 11am till 1:30pm
Behind Emerson Hall     2-22-11-2-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  Monday - Thursday, 2/28 
– 3/3 from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions 
on M & R, Math on T & W.  Call 392-2010 to 
register and learn the room location.    2-25-
5-20
Share your own life story. Participants over 
40 years old are needed for research test-
ing behavioral theories on real lives on all 
real behaviors- those that are normal, good, 
legal, and illegal. Please contact Zenta at 
ZENTAGS@UFL.EDU or (352-222-0883)
2-28-5-2012, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011
Sports
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF SOFTBALL NEWS ONLINE TEEING OFF WITH ADAM BERRYSaj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Florida junior left-hander Alex Panteliodis went nearly eight months without facing live batters, but he 
will make his season debut as a starter when the Gators take on FAU tonight at 6:30 in Jupiter.
UF BASEBALL
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
Alex Panteliodis led the Gators 
with 11 wins, 84 strikeouts and 
100 innings pitched last season, 
and he did it all with a bad hip.
“I had some days where I 
couldn’t walk,” the left-handed 
pitcher said. “It just hurt to walk. 
I took some cortisone shots, had a Toradol shot and basically just muscled it up and went out there.”
Panteliodis felt pain before the 
start of last season but couldn’t identify the injury or its extent. 
As the discomfort got worse, 
the junior got better on the mound.
He just kept playing through it 
and applied heat to keep it loose and minimize the pain.
Doctors found a bump grow-
ing on his bone that would fray his labrum whenever he rotated his hip. 
By season’s end, Panteliodis 
said his labrum was “mangled,” so he underwent offseason sur -
gery.
The lefty went through a 
lengthy rehabilitation process 
that required six weeks on crutch-
es without putting weight on his surgically repaired hip.
Although he couldn’t stand up 
and throw the ball during rehab, Panteliodis found other ways to 
improve his game. 
The hurler sat on a bucket and 
worked on his off-speed pitches 
so he wouldn’t have to rely on his fastball this season as much as he 
did last year.
Because of the rehab, he 
missed out on fall workouts and 
didn’t take the mound until Jan. 
29, right after the Gators opened 
spring practice.
Since Panteliodis went nearly 
eight months without facing live batters, O’Sullivan is erring on 
the side of caution when it comes 
to the left-hander, who will take the mound at 6:30 tonight when UF (3-0) takes on FAU (3-0) in Ju-Panteliodis to make first start since hip surgery
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
For the second time in the last year, Flor -
ida lost a national title to Stanford.
The No. 1 Cardinal handed the No. 2 
Gators women’s tennis team its first loss of the season in the finals of the ITA Indoor Championships in Charlottesville, Va.
Florida (10-1) fought back from an early 
deficit to tie the match at two. With Allie Will, Joanna Mather and Alex Cercone still competing, the Gators needed two wins to capture their seventh national indoor title.
But Mather and Cercone lost, and Will’s 
attempt was abandoned after Stanford claimed the four points necessary to win the match.
Although the Gators came up short, 
coach Roland Thornqvist said his team put all it had into the weekend.
“You can feel how disappointed these 
girls are right now,” Thornqvist said. 
“These four days definitely took a physical, 
mental and emotional toll on us. It’s rough to lose in the end, but we learned a lot from 
it, and this will help us down 
the road.”
The Gators dominated 
throughout the tournament 
and came close to toppling Stanford in the finals, but 
failed to capitalize on golden opportuni-ties.
In what proved to be a crucial portion of 
the match, the Gators lost the doubles point, 
as only the No. 30 team of Mather and Lau-
ren Embree was able to notch a win.
Their win on Court 2 was followed by Gators fall to Cardinal 
in championship matchn DUMISANE HLASELO RAN A UF-
RECORD AND SEC-BEST 3:56.84 TO QUALIFY FOR NATIONALS.
By JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
It didn’t take long for distance 
runner Dumisane Hlaselo to set a 
school record. In fact, it only took him 
3:56.84.
Hlaselo ran the first sub-four-min-
ute mile in UF history at the Flotrack Husky Classic in Seattle on Feb. 12.
“The four-minute mile is one of 
those barriers in track … that regular people walking down the street can identify with,” distance coach Todd 
Morgan said. “He didn’t just go under 
four minutes; he crushed it.”
And while Hlaselo’s time was im-
pressive, it was more than just a note-
worthy athletic accomplishment.
The native South African not only broke Wesley Maiyo’s school record, 
set in 1977 (4:00.34), he also posted the best time in the Southeastern Con-ference this season and the nation’s 
fourth-best mark in 2011.
The time was also the world’s 
eighth-fastest this year.
“My teammates came up to me and 
told me ... I was very, very excited 
about it,” the junior 
said. “I couldn’t be-lieve that I had done it … it was joyful.”
As a result of his 
record-setting mile, Hlaselo was named 
the SEC Men’s Run-
ner of the Week and 
automatically qualified for a spot at 
the NCAA Indoor Championships.
Hlaselo will be eyeing a national 
title when he competes in the mile run in College Station, Texas, but he still Junior’s four-minute mile 
inspires NCAA title hopesSEE BASEBALL, p AGE 15
SEE TENNIS, p AGE 15
SEE TRACK, p AGE 15
n Anonymous Internet Tough Guys posted photos of my Facebook page, calling 
me racist and a “tool” based on a Student Government endorsement I wasn’t in -
volved in. I might be a tool, but racist? C’mon, man. … After an outrageous ques -
tion from Jason Whitlock, Kobe Bryant said, “You know what, that’s a Bikram 
Yoga stretch.” To be fair, that’s the first time Whitlock has stretched in years.n Check out alligatorSports.org for 
the latest alligatorSports Podcast and the newest installment of our weekly video show, both of which are strongly focused on UF baseball.n Florida senior right-hander Stephanie Bro-
mbacher picked up her second straight SEC Pitcher of the Week award after winning three games with a perfect 0.00 ERA, 35 strikeouts and just five walks in 31 innings.Hlaselo
Tennis14, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011
alligatorSports Southeastern Conference Power Poll
1 5
2 6
3
4 8109
7 11
12Mississippi (17-10, 5-7 SEC) – The 
two teams from the Magnolia State are practically identical. They both whoop up on even crappier teams from the West, and they both have one standout victory. Ironically, the same could be said of the people from Mississippi. It’s hard to tell your mother from your wife.Kentucky (19-7, 7-5 SEC) After watching the NBA All-Star festivi-ties this weekend, we couldn’t help but think how nasty this team would be with rookies Wall, Cousins and Bledsoe. They’d be dougie’ing all over teams.
Alabama (18-8, 10-2 SEC) – Ho-
hum. Two wins, another good week. This team could maybe, possibly, potentially, probably be a good team. People seem to be scared to admit this, as if Mike Myers is somehow creeping over their shoulder ready to pounce the moment they say yes.South Carolina (13-12, 4-8 SEC) They got blown out in the first half again on Saturday. It’s getting to the 
point where they might be the basket-
ball equivalent to that girl who enjoyed getting punched in “Mean Girls.” “Ev-ery week we face an SEC team, and they kick our ass. It’s AWESOME!”Mississippi State (14-12, 6-6 SEC) See below, especially for the ensuing insensitive Southern jab.Vanderbilt (20-6, 8-4 SEC)Solid team with a great group of names. They have guys named Festus and Tchiengang. Cue up the Seinfeld and Cheech and Chong jokes.Arkansas (16-10, 5-7 SEC)
They’re an enigmatic team, similar 
to my cameo in alligatorSports’ most recent video show. My debut can only be described as atypical and apathet-ic. Nicolas Cage hasn’t even mailed in this kind of performance.
Auburn (9-17, 2-10 SEC) If Justin Timberlake brought sexy back, then these Tigers killed it. Kind of like Lenny Kravitz at the All-Star celebration killing it. I’m sorry, crap-ping on it.
LSU (10-17, 2-10 SEC) 
Just like the economy, they’re slowly 
getting better. Despite losing 10 in a row — including four games by at least 22 points — four of the Tigers’ last six losses have been by single digits.Tennessee (16-11, 6-6 SEC) 
Suddenly on the bubble after losing four tightly contested conference games. Maybe Daddy Pearl and his protruding midsection can burst the bubble for them.Georgia (18-8, 7-5 SEC)  
They beat the Fresh Prince of Bel Air and his gang, but a win over the Village People, possibly without the services of the cop, would solidify 
their tournament résumé.Florida (21-5, 10-2 SEC) 
Up-and-down win over LSU, but one thing seems clear: The Gators without Chandler Parsons might be like “Cad-dyshack 2” minus Bill Murray. Serious bomb potential.
Jesse Simonton and Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffAP Photo
Alabama coach Anthony Grant has led his team to a 10-2 Southeastern Conference re-
cord. While the Tide clinched the West title, it remains on the NCAA Tournament bubble.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
With a quarter of the Southeastern Con-
ference season remaining, Alabama has al-
ready locked up the West. 
The Crimson Tide’s 69-56 win over Ar -
kansas on Saturday moved it to 10-2 in the conference, a mark four games ahead of second-place Mississippi State with only four left to play. 
“I’m very excited and proud of what our 
team has accomplished up to this point,” Alabama coach Anthony Grant said. 
But Grant added his team still has plen-
ty of work to do, saying “the home stretch 
is always going to be critical.”
Despite its success in SEC play, the Tide 
is still on the NCAA Tournament bubble 
due to an 8-6 record in the nonconference portion of its schedule. 
“One game at a time is always the ap-
proach we’ve taken, and I think it’s the same thing now,” Grant said. 
KENTUCKY’S ROAD WOES: Although 
Kentucky boasts one of the most talented 
rosters in the nation, the Wildcats are tied for third place in the SEC East after a 7-5 start in conference play. 
Kentucky is just 1-5 away from Rupp 
Arena and sits three games behind first-
place Florida. 
“We’re a very young, inexperienced 
team,” UK coach John Calipari said. “We aren’t playing a whole lot of people, and 
we don’t have very much room for error.”
Calipari added that the challenge Ken-
tucky faces in playing on the road is en-
hanced by the opposition’s fans, who are always energized to face one of the confer -
ence’s marquee teams. 
Every road game the Wildcats play typi-
cally sells out, and Calipari said he already expects a “white-out or a red-out” against Arkansas, something UK has faced in a number of hostile venues. 
Vanderbilt coach Kevin Stallings called 
Kentucky’s road mark “extremely decep-tive,” citing the team’s talent and its margin of defeat. 
But the fact that Kentucky’s conference 
road losses have come by an average of 3.4 points per game is no consolation to Cali-pari. 
“We are what our record says we are,” 
he said. 
SEC IN THE BIG DANCE: A number of re-
cent NCAA Tournament projections have 
six SEC teams in the field of 68, leading a few coaches to speculate on where the conference ranks as a whole. 
Although SEC basketball has been 
down the past few years, the 
consensus seems to be that 
this was the exception rather 
than the rule. 
“This year is much more 
typical of who we are as a 
league,” Stallings said. “The bottom line is we’re always going to be one of the best leagues in college basketball.”
Stallings and Tennessee coach Bruce 
Pearl mentioned more difficult nonconfer -
ence scheduling and a wealth of experience around the league as reasons for the confer -
ence’s return to prominence. 
Pearl also referenced the Elite Eight ap-
pearances Tennessee and Kentucky made a season ago, as well as the parity of the league as a whole. 
“Kentucky doesn’t have to win this 
league for the SEC to be strong,” Pearl said. 
“People recognize how good Kentucky is, 
but they also recognize that Kentucky has been challenged in the SEC. I think that makes a very strong statement about the depth and balance of our league.”Alabama looking forward 
despite locking up West
the No. 1 team of Will and Sofie Oyen losing 
8-5 to the No. 3 duo of Hilary Barte and Mal-lory Burdette. Cercone and Olivia Janowicz 
then fell 8-6, giving the Cardinal the doubles 
point.
“I think that gave Stanford some wind in 
their sails,” Thornqvist said. “Our doubles 
play has been fantastic so far, but I feel like 
they were just a little better than us today.”
The Gators began to mount a comeback in 
singles play, with Embree and Janowicz scor -
ing straight-set victories to give UF a 2-1 lead.
Embree’s win came against Burdette, who 
clinched the NCAA Championship for Stan-ford a year ago against Florida.
Oyen’s straight-set loss to No. 20 Kristie 
Ahn let Stanford back into the match, tying the score at two.  
Meanwhile, Mather was in trouble on 
Court 4 against No. 21 Nicole Gibbs. The ju-nior, ranked No. 19, ended up dropping the match in straight sets. The defeat was her first singles loss of the year, and left Cercone and 
Will as the Gators’ last hopes.
Cercone lost a close third 
set to Stacey Tan, clinching 
the win for Stanford. Will’s highly anticipated bout 
against No. 3 Barte was called early amid a third-set thriller.
“We had chances all over 
the place in singles, but we 
didn’t take advantage of them,” Thornqvist said. “That cost us because usually when you’re playing a team like Stanford, you’re not going to get any second chances.”TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
piter.
“He’s been throwing great,” 
O’Sullivan said. “We’ve always 
taken things on the cautious side of things and let him kind of work his way back into it.”
It will be Panteliodis’ first start 
since a June 19 outing in Omaha, Neb., when he recorded a loss 
against UCLA in UF’s College 
World Series opener.
That day, he retired just 10 UCLA 
batters and allowed five runs on 60 pitches before being pulled for An-
thony DeSclafani.
Because of Panteliodis’ long 
layoff, the Gators’ skipper wanted 
the pitcher to get his feet wet in the 
team’s season-opening sweep of 
USF. O’Sullivan used the lefty out of 
the bullpen during Friday’s 7-2 win, 
and Panteliodis struggled. 
He tossed the ninth inning, 
throwing 24 pitches and giving up 
two runs on three hits. 
He was the only UF pitcher to 
give up more than one run on the weekend.
Despite Panteliodis’s struggles 
against the Bulls, O’Sullivan said he 
has confidence in the pitcher head-
ing into tonight’s matchup.
“He didn’t throw very well,” 
O’Sullivan said. “He’s been sharp, but that’s why we wanted to do 
that.
“He’s going to be a really, really 
good pitcher for us this year.”
FONTANA NAMED SEC PLAYER OF THE 
WEEK: Florida sophomore shortstop 
Nolan Fontana was named the sea-
son’s first Southeastern Conference Player of the Week on Monday fol-lowing an impressive opening se-
ries at the plate.
Fontana went 9 for 12 in the 
Gators’ sweep of South Florida in 
McKethan Stadium, leading UF with a .786 on-base percentage, 10 
total bases and five runs scored.Junior left-handed pitcher 
Panteliodis makes relief appearance to prep for Owls
BASEBALL , from page 13Florida fails to capitalize in singles
TENNIS , from page 13
Hlaselo automatically qualifies for nationals
has some work to do before then.
Hlaselo finished second among colle-
giate athletes and third overall in the mile 
run last weekend, falling short to Nike 
runner Chris Solinsky (3:54.52) and BYU’s 
Miles Batty (3:55.79).
In order to best those marks, he will have 
to improve on his historic performance.
“At this time of the year with our train-
ing and where he’s at, he can go even faster than that — absolutely,” Morgan said.
Even if Hlaselo doesn’t overcome his 
competitors, UF coach Mike Holloway will be pleased with the junior distance run-ner’s efforts in 2011.
“I don’t put that kind of pressure on my 
athletes,” Holloway said. “There’s a lot of people out there that want to win national 
titles, but what I expect of (the athletes) is 
to be at their very best at the end of the sea-son.”
With SEC Indoor Championships set to 
take place in Fayetteville, Ark., Hlaselo will 
most likely be favored to take home the conference title.
He acknowledged that 
winning the SEC and national 
championships in the mile run will require some extra work on his part but added that there are some factors be-
yond his control.
“It depends that day on how it is, how 
the conditions and how I feel about it,” Hlaselo said. “I believe that I can do it. …I 
can bring the title home.”TRACK , from page 13Thornqvist
Track“He’s been sharp, but that’s 
why we wanted to do that. ... 
He’s going to be a really, really 
good pitcher for us this year.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
Florida baseball coach16, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2011
