StaffedFully Mike Zunino is ready to take com-
mand.
  He knows it. The Gators’ pitch-
ing staff knows it. And Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan knows it.
  The Gators enter the season ranked No. 
1 by Baseball America, and the team that 
advanced to Omaha, Neb., last year for the 
College World Series boasts one of the na-tion’s best pitching staffs.
  But all the praise and preseason ac-
colades heaped upon the Gators pitchers 
mean nothing without a catcher who is 
up to the task of leading them. O’Sullivan knows that, too.
  That’s where Zunino steps in.
  “There’s certain things you have to 
do well to have a championship team,” 
O’Sullivan said. “And I know one of them is you better have a really good catcher, and he better have some leadership skills.”
  O’Sullivan thinks Zunino has those skills 
and that his catcher has done a great job of displaying  them so far. 
  As a coach known for his pitching insight, 
O’Sullivan said he relies on his catchers a great deal. This season, he plans to lean on the returning Freshman All-American even more to elevate and lead the Gators’ pitch-ers.
  “I want to be able to take control of our 
pitching staff and help them out,” Zunino said.
  n  n  n
  Zunino wasn’t like most other catchers 
last season.
  He didn’t have to worry about calling the game from behind home plate.
  O’Sullivan and the rest of the coaching 
staff didn’t want to overwhelm him by put-
ting too much on his plate. Instead, they let 
him focus on adjusting to the college game, the pitchers and his offense.
  But with a year under Zunino’s belt, 
O’Sullivan said he has the utmost confi-dence in his catcher and plans on giving him the added responsibility of calling pitches.
  “I feel like I’ve been handed more the 
keys,” Zunino said. “I know [O’Sullivan]’s 
going to need to make pitch selections in 
certain situations, and I respect that. He has so much knowledge when it comes to that. I’m just lucky to be able to help manage that 
pitching staff.”
  O’Sullivan called a lot of pitches from the 
dugout last year, but wants the catcher to 
call the game because he has a better view.
  Zunino said the coach wants him to 
“have a little more freedom back there” this season.
  O’Sullivan isn’t the only one entrusting 
Zunino with the duty of calling the games; 
the Gators’ highly touted pitching staff be-
lieves the sophomore is ready to handle that task.
  The pitchers see all the work Zunino puts 
in during practices and the dedication he’s 
shown in the offseason. 
Whether he’s in the bullpen racking up 
extra sessions with pitchers, or just going out 
in practice and catching for whoever wants 
to get some time in, Zunino’s work ethic has 
shown his teammates he’s prepared for the responsibilities placed on him.
  “He has a good feel for the game this 
year,” sophomore right-handed pitcher Hudson Randall said. “He knows what Sully wants in the game plan. …We want to throw the same pitch in the same count in 
the same spot to the same batters, so we’re 
on the same page together.”
   
  n  n  n
    Getting on the same page with the pitch-
ers didn’t happen overnight. 
  It was a process for Zunino, who was 
tasked last year with learning the different 
styles of a 15-man pitching staff.
  Instead of learning all of the pitchers, he 
is working with the team’s hurlers and only 
has to adjust to four new pitchers: the fresh-
men.
  “All of our pitchers seemed to get bet-
ter at some point ... whether it was sliders 
or changeups or better command,” Zunino said. “It’s nice to see them make adjust-
ments, too, but it’s definitely easier only 
having to adjust to a few pitchers.”
  Familiar with his battery mates’ pitches 
and not burdened with the learning curve 
of last season, Zunino now finds himself 
more comfortable and confident behind the plate. 
  And his teammates have taken notice.  Junior left-handed pitcher Alex 
Panteliodis easily discerned the change in Zunino’s presence behind home plate, but he’s hardly the only player to see the dif-ference.
  “He’s just like a second coach out there 
just talking to you, coaching you through it if you don’t know what to do,” said left-handed pitcher Brian Johnson, Zunino’s roommate. “You take his advice when he gives it to you because you know he knows the game really well.”
  Not only has Zunino become more com-
fortable with his pitchers, but they have reciprocated. Randall said having Zunino 
back there again this year has boosted his confidence, and he has no problem throw-
ing a ball in the dirt as an out pitch.
  O’Sullivan said the 6-foot-2 sophomore 
has the same demeanor he did as a fresh-man: mild-mannered and confident. But 
the increased level of comfort has helped 
Zunino relate to the pitchers and make in-game corrections.
  In the past, O’Sullivan might have had to 
come out to talk to the pitchers, but much like calling the pitches, the coach is entrust-ing his catcher to right the ship in certain situations.
  “He knows every pitcher up and down, 
what they throw, what count they want to throw stuff in, what’s their out pitch, what’s their go-to pitch,” Randall said.
  
n  n  n  
  Not only has Zunino gotten more com-
fortable behind the plate; the sophomore 
said he now feels more at ease in the bat-
ter’s box, too.
  Instead of spending his offseason in a 
college summer league, Zunino took the 
summer off to work on his swing, taking as 
many reps as he could in hopes of improv-ing on his .267 batting average. 
He also used the time to fully recover 
from a thumb injury that hindered him to-
ward the end of last season. 
  Zunino struggled on offense out of the 
gate, including an eight-game stretch dur-
ing which he went 0 for 20 in the batter’s 
box.
  “I was over-thinking it (last year),” 
Zunino said. “It was just one of those things 
where I felt a little bit rushed.”
  “You could see him getting down,” 
Johnson said of Zunino’s hitless streak.
  It was the worst rut of the catcher’s 
young career. 
  But Zunino didn’t let his struggles on of-
fense affect him behind the plate, where he boasted a .995 fielding percentage, a quality his coach and his teammates value in their catcher.
  “You always know [any struggles at the 
plate are] gone,” Johnson said. “It’s behind him. It’s fresh. It’s good.”
  Zunino hopes to parlay the improve-
ments he’s made this offseason into on-
the-field results. Not just for himself, but 
for his team and the top-tier pitching staff O’Sullivan has entrusted him with.
  And Zunino is ready to take command. Editor Adam Berry   ◗    Cover Photo Matt Tripp
Alligator, Friday, February 18, 2011
By TOM GREEN | ALLIGATOR WRITER
tgreen@alligator.orgBaseball Preview
Zunino relishes chance for more freedom behind the plate
 Steven Keys / Alligator
    Florida sophomore catcher Mike Zunino will be counted on more in 2011 to call pitches and manage the Gators’ star-studded staff of hurlers. The returning Freshman All-American 
has worked to improve his abilities at and behind the plate during the offseason, and he will benefit from his greater familiarity with last season’s group of pitchers.
  Just one day before the season, Brian Johnson didn’t 
know if he was pitching this weekend — at least he acted like he didn’t. 
  Johnson, who won six games as a freshman last sea-
son, wasn’t sure of his place in the rotation because of Florida’s multitude of arms.  
  “(The pitchers) know,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said, 
clearing things up. “It’s just going to come from me.”
  Oh. Well, maybe Johnson, who is starting today in 
the Gators’ season opener, did know. But the point still stands — UF’s depth has created a lot of tough decisions for O’Sullivan.
  “I wouldn’t like to be in coach’s shoes,” Johnson said. 
“We have a lot of people that could go out there and be starters for a lot of teams. It’s a good thing to have. But you can’t foul up because somebody is going to step up and fill in the hole.”
  This is exactly the reason Florida is starting the season 
atop the rankings.
  After a year in which the Gators won the regular-
season Southeastern Conference title and earned a trip to Omaha, Neb., they return seven of the of the nine players who were part of the batting order when UF kicked off 
last year’s College World Series.
  Add in the presence of Kamm Washington, who was 
hitting .308 to begin his UF career, suffered a season-
ending injury 27 games into his freshman year, and that impressive number looks even better. Washington is ex-
pected to start in center field tonight.
  Did I mention the versatility Florida possesses?
  It’s almost like O’Sullivan makes it a prerequisite for 
UF players to line up at more than one position.  Austin Maddox, who came to 
Gainesville as a catcher, played third base last season and is expect-
ed to see time at first this year. Oh, 
and in a practice this week, he was on the mound striking out batters with 93-94 mph heat.
  Then there’s Johnson. Not only 
is he Florida’s Friday night starting pitcher, he also plays first base and designated hitter, and he finished 
his freshman season with four home runs and a .405 aver-
age in 84 at-bats.
  That’s only the Gators’ hitting depth. Their pitching 
staff is even scarier.
  Alex Panteliodis — you know, the guy who trotted to the mound with a 3.51 ERA and a team-leading 11 wins 
and 82 strikeouts last season as UF’s Friday night start-er— did not even make the weekend rotation to begin the 
year. 
  Instead, the No. 9 overall pick in the 2010 MLB Draft, 
Karsten Whitson, will take his spot and make his first col-
legiate start Sunday.
  Naturally the bullpen is stacked, too. It features 
Tommy Toledo, Nick Maronde, Steven Rodriguez and Greg Larson — all pitchers who O’Sullivan is comfort-able using to close out games.
  “It’s almost like having a bunch of pieces of a puzzle 
on a table, and you’re just trying to piece it all together,” O’Sullivan said. 
  He will begin the process of figuring that puzzle out to-
night, so that it can look as beautiful as ever come June.  Gators’ improved depth across the board reason enough for preseason No. 1 ranking  
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org
Twitter: @Chiang_Reaction
Mike
ZuninoZach
Powers
UTIL
Ben
McMahanNolan
FontanaJosh
Adams
Austin
MaddoxPreston
TuckerKamm
Washington Bryson
Smith
1. SS 
2. 2B  
3. RF 4. 1B 
5. P/DH 
6. C 7. LF  
8. 3B  
9. CF 
UTLNolan Fontana , So.
Josh Adams, Sr.
Preston Tucker , Jr.
Austin Maddox , So.
Brian Johnson , So.
Mike Zunino , So.
Bryson Smith , Sr.
Zach Powers , Fr.
Kamm Washington , So.
Ben McMahan, Jr..287/.437/.417/3/23
.224/.316/.392/9/42
.331/.436/.551/11/49.333/.363/.587/17/72
.405/.458/.631/4/21
.267/.314/.472/9/41.255/.336/.358/3/22
.308/.416/.400/1/6
.325/.346/.442/2/112011 Projected Opening Day Lineup  
AVG/OBP/SLG/HR/RBI
1. SS 
 Nolan Fontana
 , So.
 .287/.437/.417/3/23
3. RF 
 Preston Tucker
 , Jr.
 .331/.436/.551/11/49
5. P/DH 
 Brian Johnson
 , So.
 .405/.458/.631/4/21
7. LF  
 Bryson Smith
 , Sr.
 .255/.336/.358/3/22
9. CF 
 Kamm Washington
 , So.
 .308/.416/.400/1/6
Alexander Silva and Jesse Simonton / Alligator StaffCallingtheShotsWe Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 32 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida freshmen 
Sofie Oyen, Olivia 
Janowicz and Alex 
Cercone (right) 
have stepped in 
and instantly made 
an impact on 
the No. 2 Gators 
women’s tennis 
team this season.
See Story, Page 16.Malaysia police nab 3 men accused of stealing 725,000 condoms
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — 
Malaysian police have arrested three 
suspects involved in the heist of some 725,000 condoms, which have not yet been found.
Mohamad Shukri Dahlan, the police 
chief of Malaysia’s northern Perak state, says the heist was “an inside job.” 
He said Friday the suspects work for 
the firm responsible for transporting the condoms from the factory to the port, where they were to be shipped to Japan.
Sagami Rubber Industries Co., one 
of Japan’s biggest condom makers, said 85,000 boxes of ultra-thin condoms van-ished last month in the heist. 
The merchandise was worth $1.5 mil-
lion.
The suspects intended to sell the con-
doms in Malaysia, but Mohamad Shukri said they had probably not succeeded.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sunny
80/49FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 14
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Members of UF College Republicans host an affirmative action bake sale Thursday on the Plaza of the Americas. 
The group sold cookies at prices ranging from 25 cents to $1 depending on a combination of race and gender.
n BAKED GOODS AT THE SALE, WHICH WAS MEANT 
TO PROTEST AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, WERE PRICED DIFFERENTLY BASED ON RACE AND GENDER.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Staff Writer
Cookies were going for cheap Thursday — that is, unless 
you’re white.
In a protest against affirmative action in university ad-
missions, UF College Republicans sold cookies priced by 
race and gender.
As the sign read: $1 for white and Asian males; 75 cents 
for white and Asian females; 50 cents for black, Latino or Na-
tive American males; and 25 cents for black, Latina or Native 
American females.
Carly Wilson, the club’s chairwoman, said between 50 and 
100 students approached the table for some sweets. Some 
flashed dirty looks. Others issued supportive comments.
Three steps across the sidewalk, UF College Democrat 
members had their own table where they were handing out 
free cookies, donated by the Affirmative Action Committee 
of Alachua County.
Kyle Pendergrass, UF College Democrats treasurer, was 
one of the students manning the table. 
He said the club found out about the College Republi-
cans’ event on Monday via Facebook and decided to stage 
its own counter-protest.
However, the issue isn’t pertinent to UF’s campus.Because the school receives $600 million in federal grants 
every year, it is required by federal law to have an affirma-tive action plan in place, said Paula Fussell, vice president for human resource services at UF.
But state-level executive order prohibits admissions offi-
cers and employers from considering race or gender on ap-
plications.
Wilson said she is aware that UF does not have the policy 
but wanted students to be aware when they apply to out-of-
state graduate schools.Minorities get sweet deal at bake sale
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
With Student Government elections just 
days away, the Unite Party and the Progress 
Party are hitting the ground running with 
their campaigns.
Both parties released their official platforms 
earlier this week. From student life to sustain-ability, both parties outlined the goals they hope to accomplish if elected. 
Unite Party spokeswoman Cecelia Hard-
wick said much of her party’s platform was generated by talking with the candidates and 
gathering ideas from students.
She said the main three goals of the Unite Party are to provide campus-wide free print-ing, to oppose any raises in student activity 
fees and to continue to oppose block tuition, 
The Progress Party candidates have 
pledged to continue standing against block tuition as well. Progress Party campaign man-
ager Michael Morales said his party also com-
piled its platform by talking with students.
The Progress Party hopes to make strides in  
looking for funding to make necessary repairs to the Reitz Union without imposing a fee on students and improving transparency in SG.Parties release platforms
See an explanation of Student 
Government Platforms on pg. 4By JOSHUA JURNOVOY
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The U.S. and Florida must place a 
higher emphasis on technological re-
search and education in order to pre-
vent themselves from falling further behind other nations, Florida Lt. Gov. Jennifer Carroll and a world-renowned engineer said Thursday.
More than 150 people crowded into 
MacKay Auditorium at Pugh Hall to hear Carroll and Norman Augustine 
discuss ways to improve U.S. techno-
logical development.
Carroll said developers within the 
state have done a good job of coming up with ideas and solutions to making those ideas a re-
ality.  
However, she said other states have 
been responsible for the production Carroll talks technology
OnCampu s
SEE GRAHAM, p AGE 5News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 32 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classiﬁ  eds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Saﬁ  d Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Spencer Christen,  
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classiﬁ  ed Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Comedian Todd Barry
Today, 8 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomRUB Entertainment and GatorNights present UF grad-uate Todd Barry. The event is free and open to the pub-lic. Barry has appeared on “The Late Show with David Letterman,” “Late Night with Conan O’Brien,” in “The Wrestler” and in “Flight of the Conchords.” For more infor-mation, become a fan of RUB Entertainment on Facebook and follow @rubentertain on Twitter.
Sigma Chi Derby Days
Saturday, 10 a.m.
Norman Field
Sigma Chi Fraternity will be 
holding its annual line dance competition, Derby Days. The competition will be be-
tween the women of the UF 
Panhellenic Council and it will 
benefit the Children’s Miracle Network.
CASA Chinese New Year Show
Saturday, 6:30 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomThe Chinese American Student Association is hosting 
a Chinese New Year show full 
of cultural dances, modern 
dances, singing, skits, Chinese yo-yo, spoken word, musical instruments and much more. There will be free beverages and cultural food. This event is free and open to the public. Contact casa.president@gmail.com for more information.
Florida Invitational Step Show
Saturday, 7 p.m. O’Connell CenterThis show highlights the art of stepping by Black Greek-letter organizations. Eight of the nine National Panhellenic Council teams from around the country will compete for a grand prize of $5,000. 
Great Gator Debate
Sunday, 6 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomThis two-vs-two public fo-rum-style tournament will test the argumentative and persuasive skills of its con-testants. At its conclusion, the final teams will have the op-portunity to compete in front of UF for the $250 grand prize.African community and what that means for those in the United States.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alligator.
org. Please model your sub-
missions after above events. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
BRIEFS
Jury acquits Pa. man who 
uses wiry hair defense 
DOYLESTOWN, Pa. — A 
Philadelphia man’s wiry hair 
has helped him beat a robbery 
rap.
The evidence against Timo-
thy Corbett included surveil-
lance footage and an eyewitness 
account, but his defense was 
that his stiff hair didn’t match the tousled appearance of the man in the video. 
The Bucks County jury 
agreed Wednesday, ﬁ  nding him not guilty of charges including robbery and terroristic threats.
Defense attorney Louis Busico 
tugged on his client’s hair dur-ing closing arguments, telling the jury that if he couldn’t move it there was no way Corbett was the man with the mussed locks 
in the video.
Corbett had been charged 
with robbing the Bensalem con-
venience store on April 24.
Assistant District Attorney 
Christopher Rees says prosecu-tors believed the evidence was solid but the jury found there was reasonable doubt.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSBlack Male Extravaganza
Monday, 6:30 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand BallroomBME is a Broadway-scale theatrical production fea-turing a cast of talented black males. The produc-tion features elaborate dance numbers, songs, and a captivating story line to educate audiences about the rich history and contempo-rary plights of black males.
Casino Night
Tuesday, 6 p.m.Broward BasementCome join us for Casino Night. The night will be filled with poker, Black Jack, Russian roulette and more.
Student Government 
ElectionsTuesday and Wednesday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.At various locations on cam-
pus. 
Visit sg.ufl.edu
Step up for Human.I.T.Y.
Wednesday, 6:15 p.m.Matherly room 113Learn about atrocities ocur-ring in African nations, learn how to get involved and learn about health care in Africa from a veryspecial guest speaker.
Gainesville Rugby Club 5th 
Annual Poker RunFeb. 26, 7 p.m.Gator CityThe Gainesville Hogs invite you to their fifth-annual poker run. You will get cards at each stop. The best hand at the end of the night wins $100. For details check out our website, gainesville-rugbyclub.com.
Silent Killers Forum
March 2, 6:30 p.m.Rinker room 106Learn about the silent killers in the African community. Discuss different medical topics, how they affect the PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/51TUESDAY MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/50SUNDAY
SUNNY
78/51SUNNY
80/49SATURDAY
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
Take a 26-year problem that has frus-
trated city staff and citizens. Add a 703-page 
solution.What do you get?
A compromise.Gainesville City Commissioners ap-
proved the EPA’s recommendations Thurs-day for a way to clean up a contaminated former wood processing plant, the Cabot-Koppers Superfund site.
Government consultants explained a 703-
page document that laid out the recommen-dations.
“I think we did get pretty much what we 
need,”said Chris Bird, the county environ-
mental protection director. “It’s not what we 
would have liked.”
The commission had the option to ap-
prove the EPA’s plan or dismiss it. Federal law doesn’t give the commission the option to change the decision.
“The nature of the remedy is not negotia-
ble,” said Bill Pence, environmental counsel to the city. “It’s just are you going to imple-ment it or not.”
The water will be cleaned with a chemi-
cal treatment and the soil would be moved from a roughly 90-acre area and placed on a roughly 30-acre area surrounded by under -
ground walls about 65 feet deep. Two feet of 
uncontaminated soil will be put on top.
The cleanup could begin as soon as the 
work plan is completed, which could be this 
summer.Commission approves 
plan for Koppers cleanupn THE UF RESEARCH CENTER 
WILL BE BUILT IN MARCH.
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Daniel Colvin got his wish. 
After fighting for about 12 years to 
get a new building for UF’s plant re-search facility in Citra, his dream be-came a reality when he secured a $1.5 million dollar donation. 
Construction will begin in March 
on the Frank Stronach Plant Science center, a 12,380 square-foot complex devoted to student and public educa-tion.
The construction is expected to 
take five months and to be completed at the beginning of the fall semester. 
The donation came from Stronach, 
the building’s namesake, who found-
ed and chairs Magna International 
Inc., an automotive parts supply com-pany. 
The building will be added onto 
the Plant Science Research and Educa-tion Unit, which, until now has been primarily a research center. 
The new building will feature a 
5,380 square-foot section with class-rooms and areas for conferences, along with a 7,000 square-foot open 
pavilion to accommodate educational 
programs at the complex.
Colvin estimates the building will 
be able to hold 300 people.
“Right now, I don’t have a central 
place to have those people together,” 
he said.
The building will 
also feature a tram 
syste which will al-
low guests to tour the facility and see 
the research in action.  
Colvin said he was previously un-
able to get the money to build the fa-
cility because the state could not put 
up money for it.
But now, he relishes the opportu-
nity to put that research on display 
for others.
“It’s almost the culmination of a ca-
reer,” Colvin said. “I always knew this 
would be the biggest nut to crack.”Citra plant gets upgrade
UFAcademic s“The nature of the remedy is    
not negotiable.”
Bill Pence
environmental counsel to the                      
city of Gainesville4, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
PROGRESS PARTYSTUDENT GOVERNMENT PLATFORMS
UNITE PARTY
Make the necessary repairs and renovations to the Reitz Union using the Capital •	
Improvement Trust Fund.
Cut all executive perks including meal cards, cell phone stipends, parking passes, •	
football	 tickets	 and	office	 furniture	 and	redirect	 the	money	 into	providing	 greater	
funding for student organizations.Keep	 a	floor	 of	Library	 West	 open	 24	hours	 for	students	 to	study.	 SG	already	 pro- •	
vides	similar	services	during	midterms	and	finals.Oppose	 administration’s	 block	 tuition	 plan	 using	 SG	resources	 to	mobilize	 and	 •	
facilitate student action.Replace	 the	Webmail	 e-mail	 system	 with	a	Gmail	 server.	 Google	 offered	 the	uni- •	
versity greater storage space that students could use.Implement	campus-wide	free	printing	in	CIRCA 	computer	labs	and	libraries. •	
Increase the amount of paper recycling bins on Turlington Plaza, the Reitz Union •	
and	other	high-traffic	campus	areas.Implement a secure online voting elections system to encourage greater student •	
participation in elections. 
Implement	a	Campus	Police	Review	Board	that	would	oversee	the	University	Po - •	
lice	Department	and	be	made	up	of	students,	faculty	and	former	police	officers.Continue to oppose block tuition.•	
Save	students	money	by	opposing	any	increases	in	activity	and	service	fees.	•	
Implement	campus-wide	free	printing	for	all	students.•	
Extend	 the	hours	 at	libraries	 and	study	 areas,	specifically	 the	Law	Library,	 Norman	 •	
Hall	and	Bryan	Hall.
Increase	 the	availability	 of	ATMs	 from	 other	 banks	 on	campus,	 such	 as	Bank	 of	 •	
America	and	Suncoast	Schools	Federal	Credit	Union.Increase bicycle safety by visibly posting cycling guidelines throughout the cam-•	
pus so drivers, cyclists and pedestrians can have a safer environment for trans-
portation.
Advocate	 for	the	soft-closing	 of	bars	 and	nightlife	 establishments	 that	will	extend	 •	
hours of operation to 3 a.m.
Subsidize	 the	price	 of	graduate	 and	professional	 school	 entrance	 examinations	 •	
such	as	the	GRE,	GMAT,	LSAT,	MCAT 	and
	PCAT.
Work	 with	 Food	 Services	 to	become	 a	more	 environmentally	 friendly	 campus	 by	 •	
eliminating	 the	use	of	Styrofoam	 on	campus	 and	by	installing	 compost	 machines	
to	limit	waste	going	into	landfills.
Jocelyne Sanchez / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
phase of most of these developments.
“We need to see more of these ideas through,” Carroll 
said.
Because of this trend, Carroll placed a heavy emphasis 
throughout her presentation on the importance of creating 
incubators to assist in technological developments.
She also said making advances in technology in schools 
would help to reach the state’s goal of creating 700,000 jobs in 
the next seven years.
“The private sector coupled with the univer -
sity system will help us grow our economy and create more jobs,” Carroll said.
Augustine, a former CEO and chairman of 
Martin Marietta and Lockheed Martin, discussed the declin-
ing performance of American students in math and science 
and its effect on the country’s technological sector. 
He echoed Carroll’s sentiments on improving domestic 
technology development.
He also said there is not enough investment in technology 
research. As a result, universities in other countries are hiring some of the best minds away from American universities. Carroll said technology  
will spur job creation
GRAHAM , from page 1
OnCampu sPERSON OF THE WEEK
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer 
While some students choose 
are spending their Spring Break 
soaking in the debauchery of sun-
kissed tourist destinations, David 
Ames is asking Gainesville resi-
dents to spend their break making a difference in the world.
Ames is the founder of humani-
tarian group From Gainesville With Love, which partners with Jacmel, Haiti, to revitalize its pop-
ulation since the 2010 earthquake.
Before founding the group, 
Ames worked in the admissions 
and marketing department of the 
Florida School of Massage. He has 
since given up that job to organize 
FGWL’s efforts full-time.
He graduated from UF with a 
psychology degree and combines 
those skills with his background in marketing to reach out and recruit 
potential volunteers. It’s his job to 
help them discover how their skills and interests can help the people 
of Jacmel in a fulfilling way.“We don’t like telling people 
what to do,” he said. “We like ask-ing people how they want to help 
and being able to help them find 
an opportunity.”
Ames became involved with 
Haiti after last year’s earthquake. 
After hosting an aid benefit at the 
Florida School of Massage, he and 
his colleagues were left with about $3,000, and they were wondering 
what they could do with it. 
Ames decided it would be best 
to spend it on the Haitian people directly. A completely volunteer-
based organization, FGWL has 
successfully organized four trips to 
Jacmel and have helped build part-
nerships between local churches, 
businesses and artists with they’re 
counterparts in the Caribbean. “We’re not an aid organiza-
tion,” he said. “We believe that relationships in the real world are 
a two-way street and to get out of 
that trap of fostering long term de-
pendencies … there’s got to be a 
two-way street.”
They’ll make their fifth trip 
March 5 to March 13. During their 
visit, volunteers will help build homes for the displaced and host 
medical clinics, educational work-
shops and community events. 
The trip costs $360, which in-
cludes hotel accommodations and food expenses as well as excursions to beautiful Haitian landmarks.
Anyone interested in volunteer -
ing for the trip, lending a hand or 
seeking future internship oppor -
tunities with the group can learn more by visiting fromgainesville-
withlove.org or looking up FGWL 
on Facebook. Ames can frequently 
be found tabling for the group on the Reitz Union colonnade.
“Watching everything fall into 
place … it’s kind of a dream come true,” he said.Local group sends love to Haiti
“We like asking people how 
they want to help...”
David Ames
founder of From Gainesville     
With LoveThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do you think racial profiling is a necessary evil?Thursday’s question: Should the governor have taken the $2.4 billion for high-speed rail?
121 TOTAL VOTES53% YES47% NO
Comparison shows ineffective spending
“Do it my way, or the government will be shut 
down!”
This is the point that was reached in Wash-
ington this week as President Obama issued a government 
shutdown threat during continued sparring with Congress 
over the 2011 spending bill.
The battle over the federal budget is always heated, but 
this year’s debate between Republicans and Democrats is 
especially violent, given the mandate to cut spending and 
reduce the deficit that sent many Republican lawmakers 
to Washington in the last election.
But rather than jump into the fray to debate the mer -
its or shortcomings of the numerous proposals, I wish to 
make a simple comparison between the current state of 
the federal budget and the budget of 50 years ago, based on statistics from the website of the U.S. Census Bureau.
In 1961, the federal government operated with a total 
budget of $94 billion. This year, after determining the cor -
ners that can be cut and the discretionary expenditures that can be frozen, the president proposed a budget of $3.7 
trillion, an increase of 3,936 percent. Adjusted to inflation, 
this is still a near-sixfold increase since 1961.
What are the American people getting out of this mas-
sive explosion of spending?
Consider the issue of employment. In this economy, 
jobs are on the forefront of many Americans’ minds. Law-makers in Washington often speak on the issue of jobs and 
the importance of the government in creating jobs and 
sustaining a stable workforce.
In 1961, the unemployment rate was 6.7 percent. Given 
the dramatic increase in government spending, one would 
think that our current situation is better. However, today’s 
unemployment level of 9.2 percent is among the worst in 
the history of our republic.
Consider also the issue of crime. According to classi -cal liberal theory, the prevention and punishment of crime is the most 
important function of government. Many publicly funded programs have been implemented over the last 
50 years to combat crime and more 
effectively equip law enforcement 
personnel. So one would think that 
such a large increase in the federal 
budget would have reduced crime.
Unfortunately, the overall crime rate of 1,906 per 100,000 
people in 1961 has nearly doubled to 3,465 today.
Finally, consider the issue of education, one of this ad-
ministration’s chief concerns. With all that has been done 
to boost the educational system and all the programs that have been implemented to ensure the success of students, 
it seems that all this extra money would have led to great-
er achievement in the classroom.
However, the current graduation rate of roughly 70 
percent is virtually identical to that of 1961. 
One may argue that the current threats and issues that 
we face are more expensive than those which Americans experienced in 1961. 
Yet while we do face important challenges now, the 
budget of 1961 was enough to support the burgeoning 
space program, the arms race with Russia and the explo-
sion of infrastructure costs with the early development of 
the interstate highway system.
It simply stands to reason that the federal government 
has forgotten how to function under a reasonable budget. 
I, for one, say we should cut until it hurts, then cut 
some more and force our officials to figure out how to be 
more responsible with taxpayers’ money. 
Bob Minchin is a fourth-year electrical engineering major. 
His column appears on Fridays.Forgive us if we’re not as chipper as usual. 
We’ve reached that lull in the semester between Val-
entine’s Day and Spring Break, with nothing but work to look forward to in the meantime.  That and SG elections. 
Huzzah. 
On the bright side, our typical Florida weather has 
returned, giving us something to be happy about as we 
scurry between classes. In that spirit of hope, we present you with the we-know-there’s-a-light-at-the-end-of-this-
tunnel edition of...
Darts & Laurels
And, no, we’re not talking about discounted holiday 
candy.
While we’re on the topic of bad decisions, let’s take a 
look at our governor’s desire to reject $2.4 billion of fed-
eral funds which would go toward building high-speed rail lines. 
He’s turning away from a viable transportation option 
which would create new jobs while helping the environ-ment and possibly alleviating some of the traffic clogging Florida’s roads. The state’s share of the money — $300 million — was already approved by former Gov. Charlie Crist. 
Wait. Where’s the downside? Weren’t you supposed to 
get us back to work? 
His stubborn refusal to take a risk with potentially huge 
benefits forces us to launch this high-speed even-your-fel-
low-party-members-are-banging-their-heads-against-the-
wall-over-you DART at Gov. Rick Scott.
We could have it worse, though. At least our govern-
ment officials aren’t running away from the situation en-tirely.
In a response to state Republicans’ plan to cut union 
rights for public employees, Wisconsin’s state Senate Dem-ocrats fled to Illinois as an effective boycott. Their decision may have been influenced by three days of huge protests 
against the measure, but it still seems childish. When 
asked why they ran, the senators’ answers amounted to a playground response: They didn’t play nice, so we’re tak-ing our toys home. 
We understand the feeling of injustice, but democracy 
only works when people talk things out. That’s why we’re throwing a put-your-big-boy-and-girl-pants-on DART at 
Wisconsin’s Democratic state senators. 
Besides, the Republicans won’t be keeping their jobs for 
very long if the measure is that unpopular.
According to the digital readout, UF found a popular 
way to help the environment. If you haven’t noticed the water bottle-friendly fountains in the Reitz Union, give them a try. Not only do they cut back on waste, they’re 
helping shave time off refilling bottles. For making it 
convenient to get a little greener, we’re giving a we’ll-be-watching-that-counter-click-up-with-pride LAUREL to 
the Reitz Union.
It’s surprising to see what a difference a little spout can 
make.
It’s also surprising to watch virtual unknowns win fa-
mous awards. For keeping us entertained with buzzwor -
thy Grammy winners for Album of the Year and Best New 
Artist, we’re reluctantly handing over a we-still-have-no-
clue-who-Esperanza-Spalding-is LAUREL to the National 
Recording Academy.
That’s all for this round. 
Remember: The beach is only a few weeks away, 
Gators. 
Bob Minchin
letters@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Racial profiling a necessary evil
In a letter to the editor published Thursday, 
the concept of racial profiling is mentioned in 
conjunction with the evilness of the Republi-can Party and its opposition to affirmative ac-tion. While I realize I won’t make many friends 
with this argument, I have no problem with 
racial profiling. Is it ideal? Absolutely not. In an ideal world, every single person would be treated the same in every situation. However, that is simply unrealistic; thus, I believe racial profiling to be a necessary evil. 
Whether it be in airport security lines pro-
filing Arabs as terrorists or on the U.S.-Mexico border profiling Latinos as illegal immigrants, 
I personally believe it to be necessary. Is it fair? 
No. But it’s also not fair that innocent people died on Sept. 11, 2001, and it’s not fair that I have to pay taxes to support programs that benefit illegal immigrants. Again, I’m not ar -
guing that racial profiling is right, but I believe it’s necessary . It is inefficient and impractical not to racially profile; this country’s lack of pa-tience and money requires profiling. 
Think racial profiling is never acceptable? 
The last time you were walking through Tur -
lington Plaza, how many times did a specific 
organization avoid giving you a flier because 
you didn’t meet their normal group member characteristics? As a white male, after three years here, I can no longer count the number of times that an ethnic fraternity or specific student union has obviously retracted their outstretched hands holding fliers as I walk by . Why? Because they are racially profiling. It is not wise in terms of paper cost and time 
to hand me a flier for the next Black Student 
Union event. Before any specific group freaks out about racial profiling on a national level, realize how often those same groups do the same thing for the same reasons here at UF.
Ryan Scheb
3BA
n n n 
Columnist overlooks recycling benefits
I was both disappointed and appalled to 
read Laura Ellermeyer’s column in Tuesday’s  edition entitled, “Recycling proves wasteful in long term.” Leaving aside for the moment the fact that a first-year finance student such 
as Laura is entitled to hold whatever opinion 
she wants concerning recycling, I find it inex-cusable that the Alligator would print such a socially and environmentally irresponsible ar -
ticle. First, it is a fact that recycling our cans, bottles, plastics and paper allows us to reuse our planet’s scarce resources over and over, thereby reducing the impact caused by the ex-traction of mineral, forest or petroleum prod-
ucts. Does Ellermeyer know that recycling 
aluminum cans saves 95 percent of the energy used to produce those cans from scratch? That means you can make 20 cans out of recycled material with the same amount of energy it takes to make one can of new material. Energy savings from recycling cans in 1993 alone were enough to light a city the size of Pittsburgh for six years. It also takes water — a lot of water — to process raw aluminum into cans. Why should we willfully waste resources when we 
can easily conserve them?
Second, demand for recycled materials and 
their consumer products have increased as 
people realized the importance of recycling. Products made from recycled materials are commercially available in many retail outlets. Plastic bottles may be turned into jacket-filler fibers, shopping bags, plastic lumber for park benches and even speed bumps. More than 
400 paper mills in the United States use at least 
some recovered materials in their manufactur -
ing processes, and more than 200 of those mills use recovered fiber exclusively.
Third, Ellermeyer proposes that because 
recycling may in some cases cost more money than land disposal, that it is a waste of money . Ignoring her wrongful assertion that landfill space is plentiful (would she like a landfill 
in her home city or county?), nothing could 
be more short-sighted or ill-spirited than this sort of penny-wise and pound foolish think-ing.  Recycling conserves resources, saves en-ergy , helps keep greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and helps us mitigate our impacts upon our only home, the planet Earth. If it costs 6 percent more to recycle than to land-fill per Ellermeyer’s example, so be it. It is a 
worthwhile enterprise and I support it and en-
courage other readers to as well. It is just one of the everyday things that everyone can do to help our environment. 
Italo Lenta
8ED
n n n 
Recycling more than a financial matter
In response to Tuesday’s column by Laura Ellermeyer, a student of finance, I think she missed the potential of a further means of reducing the cost of waste management. She — as  is appropriate for finance majors and 
the students of economics — is preoccupied 
with the ebb and flow of money, not with the conditions of the planet on which we live. She recommends not recycling because it will save money. Unfortunately, she did not go far enough. To further the reduction in cost, she should have advocated that we could save 
more money by just dumping our garbage 
into the streets, where the recycling will be done by dogs, raccoons, opossums and the poor. That way we could fire all of the people who cart away our garbage and sell 
the trucks that are used to other cities that are 
stupid enough to insist on recycling.
Brian McNab
UF professor
8, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
UF GYMNASTICS
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
 
Maranda Smith already bid her 
farewell to The Gator Nation.
She had her Senior Night. She 
said her goodbyes. 
But when the NCAA granted 
Smith an additional year of eligi-
bility, she got a second chance. 
Tonight, when No. 1 Florida 
competes against No. 22 Auburn in the Gators’ final home meet, it will once again be Smith’s last time competing in the O’Connell Center during the regular season.
“Now, it’s really coming to an 
end,” she said. “It’s a whole differ -
ent feeling than last year. This is kind of like the hurrah. Now, I’m really done.” 
Even though she will be hon-
ored along with senior Alicia Goodwin tonight, Smith said her 
true Senior Night was last year.  
“Those girls I went through 
Senior Night with, that was my 
class,” she said. “Those were the girls that I came in with.” 
And the California girl who 
was a redshirt freshman for the Gators in 2008 is nowhere near the woman Smith will step out as. 
Before coming to Florida, Smith 
competed for UCLA. But after a slew of injuries caused her to hang up her leotard for two years, she thought she’d never get back to being the gymnast she once was. “I have confidence in myself 
as a gymnast again,” Smith said. “I didn’t really know if I could ever really be the gymnast I used to be. As the years went on, I con-tinued to progress and improve. 
I’ve gotten better and better each 
year.” 
While Smith 
will experience déjà vu tonight, fellow senior Alicia Goodwin said she can’t believe it is her 
time.
“When I got here freshman 
year, I remember the seniors kept 
telling me, ‘It goes so fast, just re-member to savor each moment,’” 
Goodwin said. “You never think it’ll go as fast as it does. It’s crazy that it’s already here.” 
During her time as a Gator, the 
beam and bars star has impacted the team with far more than just her performance on the mats.
“She is always the one behind 
the scenes, helping everyone out,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. “She’s always making sure that the new athlete on the team is getting ad-justed. She’s always looking out 
for everyone on the team, and 
that’s something that’s really spe-cial and that can’t be forced.” 
When sophomore Marissa King 
moved to Gainesville from Cam-bridge, England, it was Goodwin who leant her a helping hand.  
“She’s the person who helped 
me set up bank accounts, laptops, stuff like that,” King said. “She’s one who really helped me settle 
down in this country. I can never 
thank her enough for doing that because I wouldn’t have known anything.” 
Though the seniors will round 
out their last regular-season per -
formances at the O’Dome tonight, don’t expect their faces to fade away. They will still be on campus 
and plan to graduate in Decem-
ber. 
“I’ll be around,” Goodwin said. 
“I’ll be at the meets, probably pop-ping in the gym. I wont go away fully.”
Second time around, Senior Night still special for Smith
Smith
n SEVEN GATORS WON MEDALS. 
By MELISSA PENDER 
Alligator Writer
 
Florida’s youngest swimmers led the team 
in the second day of the Southeastern Confer -
ence Swimming Championships, but two reli-
able veterans once again made their mark.
Freshmen Elizabeth Beisel, Marcin Ceislak 
and Brad deBorde claimed three of the Gators’ 
seven medals.
Junior Sarah Bateman and senior Conor 
Dwyer also shattered records for the Gators. Bateman swam the 50 free in 22 seconds, break-ing the UF record, and Dwyer beat out tough competitors to swim the fastest 500 free in SEC 
history with a time of 4:11.36.
“The good thing about Conor is he’s really 
good in a close race,” Troy said.
DeBorde’s third-place 19.64 time in the 50-
yard freestyle  was the fastest by a freshman in 
school history, as was Ceislak’s second-place finish in the 200 individual medley. Beisel fin-ished third in the 500 free with a 4:37.74, clock-ing the second-fastest time in UF history.“We put some freshmen under fire today,” 
said coach Gregg Troy . “DeBorde stood up big time.”
Dwyer took his relay team to second place 
in another tight contest, the 200 freestyle relay , earning UF some unexpected points.
“Conor Dwyer’s swim was great,” Troy said. 
“I got a great swim out of Marco Loughran, 
who doesn’t usually swim freestyle.”
Troy said Dwyer will swim the 400 IM to-
day against Georgia’s Bill Cregar rather than 
the 200 free, attacking 
one of Georgia’s strengths with the record-breaking Dwyer.
Troy added that there 
will be several lineup 
changes for the men, who 
overtook Tennessee and now sit in second 
place with 308 points behind Auburn’s 378.
“We’re in the hunt on both sides,” Troy said. 
“We made up a big deficit on the men’s side.”
The women passed Auburn and now hold a 
five-point lead over second-place Georgia. 
“We’ve done well so far, but we’re going to 
have to do it a little more if we want to win,” 
Bateman said.Dwyer, Gators set records
Swimmingn Grabher, Hoyes make impact as 
freshmen 
After a 2010 season in which fresh-
men were counted on for the majority 
of the team’s goals, the Florida lacrosse team has only received significant first-year contributions from Krista Grabher 
and Courtney Hayes. 
Grabher made the difficult jump from 
a weak Florida high school system to col-
lege with limited hang-ups, and Hoyes scored her first career goal Wednesday against Jacksonville. 
The No. 17 Gators will play their home 
opener Sunday at noon against Denver. 
n 
Gators excited for home opener
The No. 5 Florida softball team will 
make its home debut Saturday versus 
No. 22 North Carolina at 1 p.m. 
After opening the season with six con-
secutive road wins, the Gators are excited to get back on their home turf. 
Everyone from experienced seniors to 
new freshmen are looking forward to ev -
erything that comes with playing in front 
of their home crowd. 
n Lacroix struggling as Nationals 
begin
Since racing out to a 4-0 start and 
being named Southeastern Conference 
Player of the Week, Alexandre Lacroix is just 1-2.  
The senior came into the year as the 
No. 4 player in the nation but dropped to No. 9 after a pair of losses to top-50 foes last week. 
Lacroix will have a major opportunity 
to bust out of his slump today as No. 11 Florida heads to Seattle for the  ITA Na-tional Indoor Championships.
Check alligatorSports.org for more.
— STAFF REPORTWhat’s on the Web... Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-
11-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroomAll inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2        2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR  n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-22-11-24-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    3-3-11-30-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-
11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-22-11-14-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, 5 min 
from bus. Big yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D incl. Fireplace in living rm & game rm w/ bar area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1600/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-22-11-14-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   2-21-11-14-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   2-18-11-10-23/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$360-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com2-22-11-9-2
Eff Barn Apt, Newberry & 143rd area, 14 
Ac prop, A/C&Heat, well water, loft queen, 
shower bath, microwave, full size fridge, TV, 
washer/dryer $400 954-610-0006 Horse 
Board Stall or Field Extra   3-3-11-15-2
Sublease a 2/2 roommate style apt with 
W/D for $650/month in Treehouse Village 
Apartments from May 1st to July 31st. Option 
to renew lease. Call Treehouse office at 352-
372-3096 RE: I303 sublease.   2-18-5-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
Beautiful. 1bd. 1ba. loft 5 min on freeway 
from SFC Renovated with tile & carpet.Pool,
Clubhouse, Exercise Room, Quiet location.
$425mo $425sec. $45appl. fee.
472-6491.
3-1-11-10-2
4BR/2BA apt. $900/mo.
Will pay $500 for Section 8 tenants.
Holly Heights. 352-498-3035,email jholifield1@gmail.com    2-22-5-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areasBike to UF352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    3-4-11-12-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts3 BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft.Large Rooms, Plenty ofParking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UFNew Carpet $450/Mo $600 DepositWindow A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
216 SW 12th Street.
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C
Carpet, Across from UF Stadium
1830 NW 1st Avenue $295/Mo, $300 
Deposit
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit2-18-11-1-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2Arlington Square. Right downtown! Bus: 1&5. 
5 min bike to campus/15min walk. 2BR/2BA 
townhouse: high ceilings, in courtyard w/ 
pool. May-July. Unfurn/util not included. 
$470/person. 352 318 1014. jsmyth@ufl.edu   
3-1-10-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Looking for roommate in a 3/3 apartment in 
Hidden Lake. Current roommates are easy to 
get along with. Pet-friendly. Easy bus routes 
to campus. Nice pool and gym with free tan-
ning $440/mo. Contact (352) 346-5459
2-18-8-4Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.    3-1-10-4
Looking for a male roommate who is very nice 
& easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo util 
& dish network tv incl. If interested call Joe at 
331-4239 or 240-4536. No smokers, alcohol, 
drugs or overnight guests please.  2-25-7-4
Perfect for female student or young profes-
sional. Quiet, safe, split-plan home in Haile. 
Has furnished BR & BA, utils & kitchen use, 
W/D. $375. Please leave message after 
11am 352-377-1648   2-24-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 11
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
Own 20 Acres Only $129/mo. $13,900 
near growing El Paso, Texas (safest city in 
America!) Low down, no credit checks, owner 
financing. Free map/pictures (866)485-4364 
www.sunsetranches.com    2-18-1-5
Quality Small Homes Wanted on Contract. 
10% - 20% Down, $1,500-$2,000/month, 7% 
- 8% Interest, Balance Paid Off in 3-5 years. 
(800)547-9900 Ext. 301 or (503)415-1638    
2-18-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-20-10-70-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: 
surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
● GRASS-FED BEEF FOR FREEZER ●
$2/lb live weight. Buy whole, half, quarter.
USDA, no hormones, no pesticides,locally grown. Call 352-498-3035 orjholifield1@gmail.com   2-22-11-5-10
RUG LIQUIDATION SALE! 75% Off Every Rug. FREE SHIPPING/BUY NOW. 200,000 Rugs Must Go www.eSaleRugs.com (866)647-3965    2-18-1-10DO YOU EARN $800.00 IN A DAY? Your 
Own Local Candy Route 25 Machines and 
Candy All for $9995.00 All Major Credit 
Cards Accepted (877)915-8222 AINB02653   
2-18-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
12, ALLIGATOR  n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
2-25-11-70-13 
Social Media/Marketing Student to assist on 
establishing F, Twitter & Linkedin sites and 
maintaining with regular postings. Must be 
creative. Part time. Ofice in Haile. Email to 
sklehrer@cox.net    2-18-11-6-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications 
using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small 
company in G’ville, great work environment. 
About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   
2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   2-25-11-17-14
Summer Camp Counselors Needed
Trail's End & Chestnut Lake Camps - PAGuaranteed Experience of a Lifetime; Limited openings for Sports Specialists, Crafts Specialists, Lifeguards & Bunk Counselors; June 17th - August 14th Gain experience working with kids. SUBMIT AN ONLINE APPLICATION NOW! www.trailsendcampjobs.com   2-18-11-10-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   2-18-11-10-14
Delivery Drivers needed,
Must know the area and the grid system, with open avialibility.apply at Five Star Pizza downtown. 210 sw 2nd ave.                 2-18-11-7-14
NEED RIDE FOR STUDENT
to (8:30am) & from (2:30pm),betweem UF area & East Side High School.Call 318-8780     2-18-11-5-14D licensed Security Officers needed at a 
hospitality site. 10 hour overnight shift. Pays 
$9.75-$10.00. Please call 941-554-8210 to 
inquire or send resume to
careers@alertprotectiveservices.com.   2-18-
11-5-14
TECH SUPPORT
CEO ASST
NETWORK ASST
SALES CONSULTANTS
SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS
Full time positions.
Send resume to hr@gleim.com
www.gleim.com+         2-28-11-10-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply 
in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 
NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 
9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    2-28-11-10-14
Sun Country Sports Center has immediate
openings for an experienced swim instructor 
w/lifeguard cert and a morning cleaning/
light maint. position. Now accepting summer 
camp counselor applications. Download at 
www.suncountrysports.com.
HR@suncountrysports.com for info.
2-21-11-5-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com   2-21-11-5-14
Project Manager/Account Director wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com.     2-21-11-
5-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com   2-21-11-5-14
Pledge 5 Apprentice
Enter the contest.Win the job.Change the world.$40,000 compensation packageDetails @ www.pledge5.org(352)577-8667 staff@pledge5.org 2-18-4-14
Office Asst Paid Internship in Alachua. 
$12.00 hourly 10-15 hours weekly. Flexible schedule. Knowledge of Quickbooks a plus. Email resume to BiopressInfo@gmail.com.   3-1-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive po-
sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14
Gator Dining Services, located on the University of Florida Campus, is now hiring cooks, line servers, and cashiers for a new Panda Express opening in March. We offer flexible schedules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply online at www.gatordining.com or in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.   2-21-11-3-1417 DRIVERS NEEDED! Top 5% Pay! 
Excellent Benefits New Trucks Ordered! 
Need CDL-A & 3 mos recent OTR. (877)258-
8782 www.meltontruck.com   2-18-1-14
Drivers - FOOD TANKER DRIVERS 
NEEDED OTR positions available NOW! 
CDL- A w/ Tanker REQ'D. Outstanding pay & 
Benefits! Call a recruiter TODAY! (877)882-
6537 www.oakleytransport.com    2-18-1-14
ESTABLISHED PRINT ADVERTISING Co. 
Hiring Reps and Territory Managers: Verified 
Leads Provided, Up to 50% Comm., Gas 
and Car Maintenance Program. Call Mike 
(419)704-7675    2-18-1-14
Drivers / Teams $1,000.00 SIGN ON BONUS! 
100% O/Op - Contractor Co. Dedicated 
Reefer Fleet Run California, Midwest, East. 
Call (800)237-8288 or visit www.suncocarri -
ers.com    2-18-1-14
TYPIST FOR PROFESSIONAL OFFICE 
NEAR CAMPUS. As needed basis. Must 
be fast/accurate/dependable. Send email to 
combehserv@gmail.com    2-24-11-5-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems seeks 
sales consultants for Gainesville & Ocala.  
Must have reliable transportation. BG Check 
and Drug Test Required. Fax resume to 352-
376-9236 or e-mail info@cpss.net.   3-3-11-
10-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!6DollarShirts.com needs local models ages 
18-22 for a photo shoot for all of our current 
t-shirts. Send an email to robinw@threadpit.
com and tell us about yourself and photos 
(face and full body).   2-23-11-5-14
PERSONAL CARE ASSISTANT NEEDED
for developmentally disabled female in a 
wheelchair. M, W, F. 9am - 3pm. $10/hr. 
Must be able to lift client & have a car. 352-
384-0909   2-23-11-5-14
COMPANION NEEDED
for developmentally disabled female in a 
wheelchair. M, W, F. 3pm - 8pm. $10/hr. 
Must be able to lift client & have a car. 352-
384-0909   2-23-11-5-14
HELPING HAND - SATURDAYS
5-8 hrs, flex. $8.50/hr. Must be dependable, 
honest & capable. Run small Kubata tractor 
& Pullman chainsaw, fix fences, other jobs as 
needed. 3 mi from Oaks Mall. 352-376-6650   
2-18-2-14
VOLUNTEER NEEDED - Website/social 
networking help for growing aerospace & 
WWII museum. Flexible schedule. Exp. w/
Joomla and WordPress required. Resume to 
susan@wingsofdreams.org    2-24-5-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-4-11-11-14
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 13
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITY
WHY PAY MORE? 371 9696
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordable
Grammar, conversation, vocabulary
Contact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     
3-16-1-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. 
Wentworth. 1- 866-494-9115. Rated A+ by 
the Better Business Bureau.   2-18-1-15
$500 Cash Loan, No Credit Check, 6 months 
to Repay, Payments $55 biweekly. $1000/
month income and active checking account 
required. Call 24 hrs (760)569-6474    2-18-
1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Criminal 
Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer 
available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV 
certified. Call (877)206-5165, www.Centura.
us.com    2-18-1-15AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA 
approved program. Financial aid if qualified - 
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance (866)314-3769.    2-18-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904    
2-18-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF students
GatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.   2-23-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
●Free Self-Hypnosis Classes ●
Take charge of your life, eliminate negatives, 
maximize your positives. 2pm Saturday at Books, Inc. 505 NW 13th St.    2-18-11-5-20
Earn $15 for participating in a 90-minute 
research study. Must be 18-28 years old & 
speak Spanish & English fluently. Contact 
Sabra Pelham by e-mail (spelham@ufl.edu) 
for details about how to sign up.   2-24-5-20
ART AUCTIONS TO BENEFIT CHILDREN'S 
CHARITY - NO BUYER'S PREMIUM and 
several artworks with no reserve! Chagall, 
Picasso, Dali, Miro, Max, Neiman, Pino, 
Maimon, Florida Highwaymen and more! 
FREE food and drinks and raffle prizes. 
BATERBYS - PALM BEACH, Saturday, 
February 19th - 4pm Preview, 5pm Auction 
- 13900 Jog Road Delray Beach, FL 33446. 
BATERBYS - ORLANDO, Saturday, 
February 26 - 4pm Preview, 5pm Auction - 
9101 International Dr., Unit 1008, Orlando, 
FL 32819. RSVP at www.baterbys.com 
or call (866)537- 1004 or email winterauc -
tion2011@baterbys.com AB#2746 AU#3750    2-18-1-20
Advertise in Over 100 Papers through-
out Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.florida-classifieds.com.    2-18-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.     2-21-11-2-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25
Sports
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
ONLINE POLL QUESTION INSIDE UF TRACK AND FIELD NEWSn UF WILL OPEN ITS SEASON TONIGHT VS. USF.
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
Being ranked No. 1 is an honor bestowed on few. But 
entering the 2011 season, the top-ranked Gators couldn’t 
care less.
“I don’t think anyone in the locker room is even thinking 
about it,” said Brian Johnson. “The goal is to be No. 1 at the 
end of the year, not the beginning.”
Johnson will toe the rubber tonight against South Florida 
senior right-hander Randy Fontanez at 7, after he and his teammates have been bombarded for weeks with questions about being the top-ranked team in the nation. 
When Baseball America tabbed Florida as the preseason 
favorite, it sparked unfavorable memories of the last time the Gators were ranked No. 1.
In 2006, fresh off a second-place finish in the College 
World Series, former UF manager Pat McMahon’s squad 
entered the season with the top ranking. But the Gators 
vastly underachieved and handled the expectations poorly, finishing a disappointing .500 on the season.
Thomas Plevik / Alligator
Florida sophomore pitcher/designated hitter Brian Johnson said the Gators are not focusing on their preseason No. 
1 ranking, instead concentrating on being on top at the end of the year. UF opens its season tonight vs. USF at 7.
Florida dismissing 
top-spot pressure
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
When the Gators were struggling during 
the early months of the season, the primary 
culprit was turnovers. 
Florida committed an alarming 14.3 give-
aways per game in the nonconference por -
tion of its season, which often led to muddled half-court sets.
UF seemed to have the issue resolved in 
the first nine games of Southeastern Confer -
ence play, turning it over just 9.9 times per contest. 
But over the past two games, the old flaw 
has shown itself yet again. 
The No. 14 Gators (20-5, 9-2 SEC) com-
bined for 33 turnovers in wins over South Carolina and Tennessee and will look to re-turn to form against LSU (10-16, 2-9 SEC) on Sunday at 1 p.m. in Baton Rouge, La. 
“I think it was basically just us,” sopho-
more guard Kenny Boynton said after UF’s 
61-60 win over Tennessee. “We just made 
bad decisions.” 
In addition to poor decision-making, 
Boynton cited Florida’s inability to execute many of its normal pick plays. 
Junior guard Erving Walker attributed 
the turnovers to the Gamecocks’ “scrappy” nature and Tennessee’s unique style of play , pointing to opposing defenses as more of a factor than anything the Gators were doing offensively . 
If the problem is simply a matter of work-
ing a few kinks out, then it arose at a good time for Florida. 
The team is nearing the end of an eight-
day layoff — its longest since Christmas. This gave coach Billy Donovan and the Gators time to “focus on ourselves” early in the week, when Donovan said they would nor -
mally be scouting their midweek opponent.  
“It’s nothing we won’t get fixed,” Walker 
said Saturday.
Correcting the turnover issue figures to be 
critical for UF, as the Gators are 11-0 when they force more turnovers than they make and just 9-5 otherwise. 
Walker and senior forward Chandler Par -
sons each cut their turnover averages in con-ference play by one per game, down from a combined 5.6 during the nonconference sea-son. But the duo combined for 12 giveaways Gators aim to curb turnovers
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
When asked what went right in 
Florida’s win over Mississippi State last month, assistant coach Brenda Mock Kirkpatrick gave a succinct reply. 
Jordan Jones and Azania Stewart.
The duo combined for 37 of the 
Gators’ 67 points in a victory over the 
Bulldogs on Jan. 30 in Starkville, Miss. Jones’ three-pointer and Stewart’s layup were part of an 8-0 run to open the scoring.
Florida never trailed in the game. “Those are two of our captains … 
and I think they came to play that day,” 
Kirkpatrick said. 
But it’s been downhill ever since. 
The Gators have lost four straight 
and eight of their last 10. Jones hasn’t scored in double-digits since Florida’s win at MSU, and the two captains have combined for just 45 points over the four-game losing streak. 
Stewart is the key. Her ability to score 
inside opens up the floor for Jones, a spot-up shooter sitting fourth in the Southeastern Conference with 53 treys. 
But the 6-foot-4 center has scored 
more than 10 points just three times in SEC play, most recently against Ala-bama on Sunday.  
Stewart’s 10 points 
came in the first half, 
and she was credited 
with three straight turnovers to start the second before being subbed out.  Jones also scored all of her 
five points in the first 20 minutes, and both players attempted just one shot in the second half. 
With Jones and Stewart absent, the 
Gators fell apart, committing 17 sec-ond-half turnovers and squandering a 10-point halftime lead. 
“Obviously, we’re a different team 
when we have (Jones and Stewart) con-tributing,” Kirkpatrick said. 
After a week off, Florida (14-13, 4-9 Jones, Stewart key for UFSEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 15
n Flip to Page 8 for a story previewing 
UF’s Senior Night gymnastics meet 
against Auburn, a recap of Day 2 of the SEC Swimming Championships and a look at other upcoming events.n On Thursday, Florida coach Mike 
Holloway was named the men’s staff assistant coach for sprints and hurdles for Team USA at the 2012 Olympic Games in London.Today’s question: How will the Florida baseball team, ranked No. 1 in the preseason, finish the year?n Keep an eye on alligatorSports.org, as we 
will have updated game stories following the busy weekend in Gators sports. That includes nightly baseball and softball stories as well as gymnastics and lacrosse updates.UF MEN’S BASKETBALL
Women's
Bask etball“We just made bad decisions.”
Kenny Boynton
Florida sophomore guardFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Gators acknowledge ranking, ignore hype
According to several players, this sea-
son will be different. They said they’re 
relishing the opportunity, but not buying 
into the hype.
“We don’t pay much attention to it,” 
catcher Mike Zunino said. 
 “I’m indifferent,” Austin Maddox add-
ed. “Rankings don’t mean much. It’s all 
about execution.”
Kevin O’Sullivan, entering his fourth 
season as Florida’s skipper, has spoken openly about how the rankings won’t be a distraction and said that his team is con-centrating on playing the game, not their standing in the polls.
“Every year we go into it with the expec-
tation to go to Omaha and win a national champion-ship,” he said. “The polls are the polls. We’re going 
to accept the challenge. 
We’ve got a good team, 
and we know we have a good team.”
UF enters the 2011 campaign as the de-
fending Southeastern Conference Champi-ons and the preseason pick to repeat in the SEC, as voted by the league’s 12 coaches. 
Despite playing in a conference with 
defending national champion South Caro-
lina, the Gators have the larger expecta-
tions. 
Knowing they are likely to get every 
team’s best effort, the Gators are ready to stop talking about the exposure and just 
play. 
“It’s going to bring the best out of us,” 
said Hudson Randall, Saturday’s starter.
“It’s kind of hard to ignore No. 1 and all 
the other hype, but the real No. 1 is at the 
end of the season.”BASEBALL , from page 14
Co-captains’ leadership needed vs. Miss. State
SEC) will have a chance to prove that Sun-
day when Mississippi State (10-14, 2-10 SEC) visits the O’Connell Center at 4:30 p.m. 
And to do so, Kirkpatrick said the team 
must address what it’s doing offensively. 
Florida has scored more than 60 points 
in only two of its nine SEC losses, and af-ter notching season-low turnover numbers against Ole Miss and Vanderbilt, Florida combined for 52 against Tennessee and Alabama.
“I don’t think our bye week could have 
come at a better time,” Kirkpatrick said.
She said the team would use the extra 
time to work on its passing and communi-cation, do some positional work and tweak a few of the plays run in its half-court sets.
Kirkpatrick also said Jones’ and Stewart’s 
leadership was vital to the win in Starkville and will be needed again Sunday.
After losing to Alabama and disappear -
ing in the second half, Jones said she real-ized the importance of her role as a cap-tain. 
“That’s something we lacked, and I take 
full responsibility for that,” Jones said. “I’m an upperclassman and a guard and a leader on the team, and that should be me.”against the Gamecocks and Volun-teers. 
Another Gator stepping up to take 
some of the blame is freshman guard 
Scottie Wilbekin, who has turned the 
ball over more times in his last eight games than he did in his first 17. 
“It’s on me. I need to take better 
care of the ball,” Wilbekin said. “I’ve just got to get my focus back.”
INJURY UPDATE: Parsons was held 
out of practice Thursday with a deep 
bruise in his left thigh and will be re-
evaluated today , a UF spokesperson said. 
He is considered day-to-day , and 
his status for LSU is unknown.No practice for 
Parsons, LSUstatus unclear
HOOPS , from page 14 Baseball
“I don’t think our bye week could 
have come at a better time.”
Brenda Mock Kirkpatrick
Florida assistant coachW-HOOPS , from page 14n CERCONE, OYEN AND JANOWICZ 
HAVE CONTRIBUTED IMMEDIATELY.
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
The expectations surrounding Florida’s 
freshman class should be backbreaking. 
The Gators women’s tennis team, com-
ing off an appearance in the NCAA team title 
match last spring, have played at least two of the three freshmen among the six starting singles spots in every match this year.
In addition to the expectations of playing 
for the nation’s No. 2 team, these rookies are following a freshman class that included two of the most successful players in UF’s history.
Sophomore Lauren Embree became the 
first freshman to be named the Southeastern Conference’s Player of the Year last season, while Allie Will won the SEC Freshman of the Year award. Embree was also crowned the ITA National Rookie of the Year last spring.
While being thrown into the fire so quickly 
could be overwhelming, Alex Cercone, Sofie Oyen and Olivia Janowicz have been able to perform at the top of their game throughout 
the early stages of the dual match season.
The three had their toughest test last week-
end, as they braved their first road trip. While 
Cercone said the road matches were a rough experience, the freshmen managed to perform well under pressure and helped the Gators come away with big wins over then-No. 4 North Carolina and then-No. 6 Duke.
They will face an even tougher test today as 
the ITA National Indoor Championships kick off in Charlottesville, Va.
The Gators will need Cercone, Oyen and 
Janowicz to step up during the tournament, as 16 of the top 25 teams in the country will be competing in the Championships.
n n  n 
Cercone’s road to Florida was the most 
unique of all the freshmen, and her career at UF almost never began.
Cercone and Embree formed a friendship 
even before high school, when they played junior tennis. Cercone said the two became closest when they spent three weeks playing a tournament in Australia.
The two had a constant rivalry in juniors, 
as Embree was usually ranked No. 1 in the age group with Cercone at No. 2. 
When Embree aged out of the group, Cer -
cone moved up to the top spot. Eleven months later, she was once again behind Embree  as she turned another year older.
But following Embree to UF wasn’t always 
the plan for Cercone. As recently as her soph-omore and junior years of high school, she wasn’t really considering the Gators.
But a strong recruiting effort by coach Ro-
land Thornqvist made Cercone think twice about her dreams of playing for a school far away from Florida.
“There was just no other school that I saw 
myself being more comfortable at,” she said.
Having the connection to Embree at UF 
made Cercone’s decision easier, but it isn’t hard to see why she might not have considered the Gators at first. Her sister, Nicole, played tennis at Florida State, and as a top-five recruit, Cer -
cone was courted by several schools.
Cercone said Thornqvist effectively utilized 
her and Embree’s friendship without making it an overpowering part of the recruitment.
“I would talk to Lauren about the recruit-
ment and tell her about which schools I was 
visiting and which coaches were calling me 
because I was comfortable with her as a close friend,” Cercone said.
“But she would always make sure to men-
tion that Florida was better than those other schools in the end,” she added, smiling.
When Embree was asked about Cercone’s 
path to Florida, she agreed it was fortunate they eventually got to team up.
“We were always two of the top Florida 
kids when we were younger,” Embree said, “and it’s awesome that we ended up at the same school.”
n n  n 
Another freshman whose path to Florida 
wasn’t always a sure thing is Oyen. As the top-ranked under-18 player in Belgium, it would have been easy for her to overlook the Gators.
Working through about eight years of trav-
el tennis in Europe led Oyen to the No. 1 rank-ing, and when  colleges came calling, more 
than 30 American universities contacted her.
Ultimately, Oyen said her decision came 
down to Florida or Duke. But after Thornqvist 
traveled to Holland to watch Oyen compete in a tournament, she couldn’t choose against the Gators.
While many foreign players have trouble 
leaving their families and adjusting to Ameri-can college life, Oyen said her years in travel 
tennis helped prepare her for the transition.
Her experiences have helped her adjust to 
not seeing her parents in the stands, and she 
has been encouraged by her teammates’ fami-lies who come out to support the Gators. 
While Oyen was regarded as a top talent 
among incoming freshmen on a national scale, Thornqvist said her confidence and persever -
ance have propelled her to success.
Playing on Court 3 for the Gators, Oyen 
suffered back-to-back singles losses last week but rebounded strongly by beating a ranked opponent against Duke.
“I was disappointed at first,” she said, “but 
then I was like, ‘There’s the next match right away.’ I was ready for it.”
Florida will need its freshmen to keep play-
ing strong to help avenge its 1-2 record in the 
Indoor Championships last year. Winning the 
tournament, something last year’s freshmen weren’t able to accomplish, should be enough motivation for the Gators’ young players.
“Last year couldn’t have been much worse 
for us,” Embree said.
But Cercone, Oyen and Janowicz know 
what they’re heading into, how important the event is for the team and that they have the full 
support and confidence of Florida’s leaders. 
“They all work hard and are extremely tal-
ented for such young players,” junior Joanna 
Mather said. “And they all play like they’re older, which is what we need.”16, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
Freshmen take varied paths to UF, make instant impact
Jesse Lash / Alligator
Florida freshmen Sofie Oyen, Olivia Janowicz and Alex Cercone have lived up to the 
lofty expectations placed on them in their first year with the No. 2 Gators.
20, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
UF BASEBALL
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
The Germans had their blitz-
krieg. The Spanish, their Armada. 
Kevin O’Sullivan’s arsenal of hurl-ers may do more damage.
The nation’s No. 1 team is pow-
ered by a strong contingent of pitch-ers, returning the weekend rotation and nearly every valuable arm from last season.
Florida’s manager, and pitch-
ing coach, presides over a seasoned bag of riches, unusual in the college ranks due to graduation and players being plucked by the MLB Draft. Al-though other nationally renowned programs return major components of their rotation, most teams experi-enced significant attrition.
Despite returning one of the best 
bullpens in the country , defending national champion South Carolina lost both its front-line starters. The Gators are one of three teams in 
Baseball America’s top five to re-
turn their entire weekend rotation, and No. 2 UCLA and No.3 TCU 
must replace three and four steady 
bullpen arms.
But not Florida.O’Sullivan’s highly touted staff 
lost just one major contributor from 
last season in closer Kevin Chap-
man. Florida has a luxury most oth-ers do not: depth, and the infusion 
of more talent.
O’Sullivan’s recruiting philoso-
phy of collecting high-quality arms has paid sizable dividends to UF’s chances to win its first national championship.
“V ery rarely do you ever get your 
whole weekend rotation back,” he said. “To have all three guys back, and to add some really talented freshmen and some other guys that have improved as well, is great.”
While Florida doesn’t roll out 
a traditional Friday night ace, its strength is in numbers.
There’s no Roger Clemens 
Award candidate like Stephen Strasburg (San Diego State, 2009) or Andrew Miller (North Carolina, 2006), but “we’ve got a lot of really good players,” O’Sullivan said.
Despite leading the Gators in 
wins (11), strikeouts (82) and innings (100) last season, Alex Panteliodis isn’t slated to start in the weekend rotation. Junior Tommy Toledo 
started 11 games as a freshman, but 
his role this season is undefined.
Brian Johnson, a gifted sopho-
more who started in the weekend 
rotation a year ago and is slated to 
take the mound for tonight’s opener 
against South Florida, said UF has 
a talented group of throwers who could be prominent weekend start-ers on most teams.Florida’s skipper agreed, saying, 
“We’ve got five or six options we can go start.
“Every year, it’s the same thing. 
The weekend rotation at the begin-ning is never the same at the end. It always works out that way.”
Last season, Panteliodis led the 
way with 11 wins, but he opened the season in the bullpen. Hudson Randall, scheduled to start Satur -
day , led all starters in ERA, but the righty began the year as a long re-liever. 
Johnson, a left-hander, was 
the only hurler 
who stayed in O ’ S u l l i v a n ’ s original weekend rotation for the season’s entirety.
O’Sullivan’s 
wealth of options 
strengthened this 
offseason when freshman Karsten 
Whitson, the ninth overall pick by San Diego, turned down $2.1 mil-
lion to play at UF. 
The hard-throwing right-hander 
is set to start Sunday’s finale against 
USF, but he is just one of several promising freshman O’Sullivan is 
excited about.
O’Sullivan’s third consecutive 
top-five recruiting class produced 
lefty Daniel Gibson and righty Keenan Kish. Both could contribute immediately.
Last year’s two freshman All-
Americans, Johnson and Randall, said competition has been a driving force this offseason, pushing every pitcher to make adjustments and improve just to maintain their slot.
“You know you can’t foul up 
because someone is going to take your spot and fill the hole,” Johnson said.
Randall, known for his pinpoint 
control, worked on his velocity by getting stronger and shoring up his mechanics. During his stint on Team USA, Johnson picked the brain of UCLA ace Gerrit Cole and developed a changeup.
Juniors Nick Maronde and Greg 
Larson, two promising pitchers who struggled with control last season, concentrated their side sessions on location.
While Johnson and Randall 
played coy about their starting roles, others are just waiting for their names to be called.
Sophomore Steven ‘Paco’ Ro-
driguez, a lefty with a nasty diving cutter, said he strained his body in conditioning and training and is ready to make the most of his op-
portunity. 
Rodriguez, along with Maronde, 
Larson and others, form a deep 
bullpen likely to operate without defined roles. When asked about specific slots 
for a staff with so much depth, O’Sullivan responded rhetorically: “Is Paco our closer? I don’t know. Is Maronde our closer? I don’t know. Can Tommy Toledo go out there and shut down the ninth? I don’t know. Is he one of our top three starters? I don’t know, but we’re going to try a lot of different things and see what happens.
“I do know this: You have to 
pitch and play defense to give your -
self a chance to win every day , and we’re going to do that.”
Gators’ staff lacking ace, but not talent or depth
STARTING PITCHERS
1. LHP – Brian Johnson, 
So. – 6-4, 4.03, 51 (Ks)
2. RHP – Hudson Randall, 
So. – 8-4, 3.24, 69
3. RHP – Karsten Whitson, 
Fr. 
OTHERS
LHP Alex Panteliodis, Jr. 
11-3, 3.51, 82
LHP Steven Rodriguez, So. 
2-0, 2.57, 26Johnson
