   TOM GREEN
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 LEXINGTON, Ky. — Florida’s 
one-man show on offense turned into 
an ensemble performance Saturday night.
  This time, Jeff Demps was cast in 
the leading role.
  Demps rushed for 157 yards and 
two touchdowns as No. 12 Florida (4-0, 2-0 Southeastern Conference) downed Kentucky (2-2, 0-1 SEC) 48-10 in Commonwealth Stadium.
  After relying on a heavy dose of 
Chris Rainey through its ﬁ  rst three games, Florida got contributions across the board — none bigger than Demps’ — in its last September tune-up before a brutal October schedule gets underway this week with No. 3 Alabama (4-0, 1-0 SEC) at home.
  “There’s going to come a point 
where someone’s going to do some things that we have to adjust to,” coach Will Muschamp said. “We haven’t gotten there yet. We do feel comfortable about other players on our offense.”
  Rainey, who accounted for more 
than 500 yards and ﬁ  ve touchdowns in Florida’s ﬁ  rst three games, still did his share against Kentucky (105 yards on 15 touches). But he wasn’t Florida’s only weapon on offense Saturday.
  Florida rushed for 405 yards and 
four different Gators found the end zone on offense. Surprisingly, Rainey wasn’t one of them. 
  Demps had a pair of touchdowns. 
Trey Burton added one of his own. 
Tight end Gerald Christian scored for the ﬁ  rst time in his career, and running 
back Mike Gillislee tacked on a late one for the Gators, whose offense add-ed another dimen-
sion against the Wildcats.
  “I knew [the offense] was going to 
open up,” Christian said. “I feel like as it goes down, more teams are going to be keying on [Rainey and Demps], so we have other players that are good, too. It’ll open up everybody else.”
  While Florida has relied heavily on 
pounding the rock thus far — its rush offense ranks 10th in the nation — and VOLUME 106 ISSUE 25 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
Bento, Mochi owners to open new restaurant
SushiCHAO will open on University Avenue, pg 3.  
Willy’s Mexicana Grill to open on Archer Road
The Atlanta-based franchise will open in November, pg 6. Students reduce carbon emissions
Neutral Gator plants trees around Gainesville 
to offset the city’s carbon footprint, pg. 8. Today
We Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
89/70Donna Lutz runs 
for Gainesville City 
Commission. She 
wants to improve 
communication 
between UF and the 
city, Page 4.
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 14FLORIDA 48 KENTUCKY 10
NEVER IN DOUBT
Demps, UF run past UK
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  Gators running back Jeff Demps rushed for 157 yards and two touchdowns, including an 84-yard 
scamper during the third quarter, in a 48-10 win against Kentucky on Saturday. 
 SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 15
  MORGAN WATKINS
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  Lauren Mackie doesn’t think of herself as 
a hero.
  But she has helped save a life. 
  Nineteen-year-old Mackie was recog-
nized with fellow UF student David Wasser-man, 20, at a Friday meeting of the Ad Hoc UPD Campus Advisory Committee.
  On Aug. 31, Mackie and Wasserman used 
CPR to help save the life of an engineering professor who had a heart attack and col-lapsed in the Reitz Union food court.
  The students, both lifeguards with CPR 
training, immediately gave CPR to UF pro-fessor Stephen Pearton when they saw he had collapsed.
  Mackie said any other lifeguard would 
have done the same thing in that situation.   “I don’t consider myself a hero,” she said. 
“I think we were in the right place at the right time.”
  UPD ofﬁ  cers Daymon Kizzar, Ken Motes 
and Tim Peck arrived within minutes to 
help. 
  They used CPR and an 
Automated External Deﬁ  -brillator to help Pearton, who later received care at 
Shands Hospital.
  UPD Chief Linda 
Stump, chair of the eight-member advisory com-mittee, presented the 
students and ofﬁ  cers with Police Challenge Coins, medallions awarded for “meritorious service,” according to a UPD press release. 
  For more on the meeting, visit alligator.
org. UPD honors student rescuers
Stump
� SDS PROTESTORS MUST SEND 
PROPOSAL BEFORE GETTING MEETING WITH UF PRESIDENT.
  JOEY FLECHAS
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  After recently protesting tuition hikes 
at Tigert Hall, Students for a Democratic 
Society will need to develop a formal pro-posal for reform before securing a meet-ing with UF President Bernie Machen.
  Members of SDS met Friday with 
Mary Kay Schneider Carodine, assistant vice president for Student Affairs, to dis-cuss Machen’s expectations  before agree-ing to a meeting.
  Carodine said Machen wants the pro-
posal to have “as much speciﬁ  city as pos-sible.”  
  SDS member Chrisley Carpio attend-ed the meeting and said she and fellow members were under the impression they were going to ﬁ  nalize a meeting with Ma-chen — a meeting she said she now feels wouldn’t happen even with a proposal.
  She said SDS still plans on develop-
ing a proposal — one they would want to present to Machen face to face. 
  “We aren’t going to concern ourselves 
with sending it to the middle man,” she said.
  Carodine said administrators studied 
the range of student and family income levels and ﬁ  nancial aid issues before de-ciding to raise tuition, and if students have realistic suggestions for how to ac-count for budget shortfalls, they should put them forward.
  “I want to encourage all students, if 
they have ideas, to present them to who-ever is the relevant party,” she said.  Machen wants tuition proposalDemps
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 25 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Adrianna Paidas, Lily Parkinson, 
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,  
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus
 C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
THUNDER
STORMS
91/69THUNDER
STORMS
89/70THUNDER
STORMS
90/68THUNDER
STORMS
90/69PARTLY
CLOUDY
89/67FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
Cultural Shifts
Today, 6 p.m.
Pugh HallJeff Klinkenberg writes about Florida culture and the people who make the state unique. He joined the St. Petersburg Times in 1977, and his work takes him from Pensacola to Key West. He will be discuss-ing his musings about the cul-tural shifts taking place in the state. His new book, which is a collection of his favorite columns, is entitled “Pilgrim in the Land of Alligators.” 
Foreign Language Organization 
First General Body MeetingToday, 7:20 p.m.McCarty B Room 2102Students interested in study-ing foreign languages or learning more about a differ -
ent culture are invited. The organization will be discuss-ing ways to set up conversa-tion sessions with language partners and how to be a language partner and help someone else learn a new language. All majors are wel-
come.
Google Hosts Information 
Session 
Tuesday, 5:30 to 7 p.m.MAEB Room 211Want to learn more about the projects and opportunities available at Google? What about tips on how to navigate through technical interviews? Come out for an evening of lightning tech talks from Gator alumni, now Googlers, as they talk about their work and share interview tips. Food and swag will also be available.
H.E.A.L Second Fall General 
Body MeetingTuesday, 6:30 p.m. Leigh  Room 207HEAL is an organization of students representing various health-related fields at the UF. The group brings togeth-er students pursuing a career in medicine, pharmacy, den-tistry, veterinary medicine, nursing, and physical and occupational therapy. Join the group after the meeting for the first Big/Little event at 34th street for “Paint the Wall.”
Gay Movie Night — “La 
Mission”Friday, 7:30 p.m.Pride Community Center3131 NW 13th St. Set in the colorful, seedy streets of the San Francisco district that bears its name, “La Mission” is a haunting story of healing and trans-formation: the healing of a broken man, of a father’s re-lationship with his son and of a neighborhood struggling to break the chains of violence. Free; $2 donation for snacks. More info at: gainesvillepride.
org/gaymovienight.php.& Girls Club of Alachua 
County. For more informa-tion, visit the festival’s web-
site at gccfla.org/gcf/.
The Big Issue: Redistricting
Oct. 26, 6 p.m.
Pugh HallRep. Will Weatherford, speaker-designate and chair of the House Redistricting Committee, will speak about Florida’s unprecedented ef-fort to engage citizens in dia-logue around the redistrict-ing issue. He will also offer insight into the legislative process for Florida’s redis-tricting and provide helpful guidance for public partici-pation on future policy is-sues. 
A Legislative Preview
Nov. 9, 6 p.m.Pugh HallMary Ellen Klas, Tallahassee bureau chief of the Miami Herald, will provide a jour -
nalistic preview of the up-coming legislative session and the impact of the redis-tricting process. 
The Florida I Knew
Nov. 14, 6 p.m.Pugh HallReubin Askew became the first Florida governor to serve two consecutive four-year terms. He emerged as a progressive lawmaker, op-posing racial segregation and supporting fairer leg-islative representation for urban counties. Tax reform, racial justice and honesty in government were the hall-marks of his governorship. Gov. Askew will be discuss-ing some of the high points of his governorship and the importance of being civilly engaged. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.The Counseling and Wellness 
Center Recognizes Mental Illness Awareness Week
Oct. 4, 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.Reitz Union ColonnadeThe Counseling and Wellness Center is collabo-rating with other communi-ty agencies to host a tabling event that will recognize and honor Mental Illness Awareness Week and the impact of mental illness on UF students. The purpose of this event is to raise aware-ness and reduce the stigma of mental illness.
Haunted Broward Volunteer 
MeetingTuesday, Oct. 4, 6 p.m.Broward LibraryHaunted Broward — the largest haunted house on campus — will have its first volunteer meeting. Last year, more than 650 people attended Haunted Broward; students and Gainesville residents showed up. Haunted Broward, which takes place Oct. 27, is a large-scale tradition, but it can’t be a success without amazing volunteers. There will be another meeting later on in October to finalize details. This upcoming meeting is an overview of what to do on each committee such as publicity, decorations, set-up/take down and acting and generating ideas for the house. There will be re-freshments. Visit facebook.com/HauntedBroward, or email nicdyelah@ufl.edu if there are any questions. 
Ilesa Ire (House of Blessings) 
presents Saturday Black 
Cinema
Oct. 15, 1 p.m.4307 NE 70th PlaceThe event is a fundraiser featuring the movies “Back to Africa” and “Songo.” Suggested donations are $8 for adults and $1 for chil-dren under 13. For more information, call 352-505-3802 or 904-742-8499. 
31st Annual Gainesville 
Cycling Festival
Oct. 22 to 23, 8:30 a.m. both 
daysBoth rides begin and end at the Northwest Boys & Girls Club at 2700 NW 51st St.  
The cost per ride is $25 for a mail-in form postmarked by Oct. 15, $26 for a credit card registration, $30 for an Internet registration or $40 for a handwritten reg-istration on Oct. 22 or 23. Proceeds benefit the Boys  MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Sept. 28, 1964: Students celebrate a win 
against Mississippi State by rioting on 
University Avenue. Between 200 and 2,000 people come out to riot, officials say. Ri-oters start bonfires, rip signs and scream “Go to hell!” at police. Eight rioters are ar-rested.
Sept. 29, 1977: The College of Arts and Sci-
ences is declared “virtually bankrupt” be-cause of equipment shortages, high enroll-ment and faculty resignations. The college faces a $500,000 deficit due to budget cuts.
Oct. 1, 1985: UF students complain that the 
Beaty Towers elevators get stuck too often and have not been properly inspected since February. Margo Eaddy, a Beaty Towers West resident, says the problem is outra-geous for the price of rent: $632  a semes-ter.
Sept. 29, 1998: UF officials say binge drink-
ing plagues UF, even though drinking rates have declined. The percent of binge drink-ers at UF is 50.3 percent; the national aver-age is 42.7 percent. Nearly 54 percent of UF students were binge drinkers in 1993.
Sept. 28, 2004: Tropical storm Jeanne 
brushes by Gainesville, leaving 31,000 without power at the height of the storm. Aside from a tree falling on a student’s car, there is no damage to UF.
– MINA RADMANOn campus
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Former Walt Disney 
Imagineer Mark Hickson will 
speak about his time at the “happiest place on Earth” at 8 p.m. today at the Orange & Brew.
Hickson’s lecture is the 
final part of the Reitz Union Board’s Disney Week festivi-ties, which included a kara-oke night and a sing-along version of the movie “Alad-din.”
“We figured an Imagineer would be the best representa-tion of Disney,” said Victoria Jeter, director of lectures and comedians for Reitz Union Board Entertainment.
Imagineers combine imag-
ination and engineering to create the attractions at the Disney theme parks and re-sorts, according to Disney’s website.
Jeter said she looked at 
various Disney-related blogs on the Internet, found Hick-son’s blog and liked how in-volved he had been with Dis-neyland in California.Hickson started his Imagi-
neer career by helping create the Splash Mountain/Critter Country project at Disney-
land in Cal-ifornia, ac-cording to Hickson’s website.
He was 
later chosen to be part of the Disney-
land To-
kyo Project Office, where he helped create 13 attractions over a four-year period.Jeter contacted Hickson, 
who lives in Hawaii, and he agreed to come to UF to speak with students for an undis-closed amount of money. 
Hickson’s presentation 
will last an hour-and-a-half, and he will be free to speak with students afterward.
Jeter said she hopes stu-
dents will get to see the tech-nical work that makes Disney what it is today.
“His line of work is ba-
sically being creative, and every child dreams of doing that,” Jeter said.
Former Disney Imagineer to speak at UF
� IT WILL OPEN NEXT MONTH.
ORIANA PAOLILLO
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Asian food lovers will soon have a ha-
ven on University Avenue. 
The owners of Bento Cafe and Mochi 
Frozen Yogurt will be opening a new Pan-
Asian restaurant in the former location of University Copy.
The new restaurant, SushiCHAO, will 
bring Bento Cafe favorites closer to cam-pus.
“The food will mostly be Asian, mostly 
Korean, Chinese and Japanese,” said Paul Cheng, SushiCHAO’s general manager. Construction has started on 1620 W. 
University Ave., and the project should be completed by the beginning of October. 
SushiCHAO will be a self-serve restau-
rant. Customers will choose the amount of food they want and pay by weight. 
Cheng said the price will probably be 
49 cents per ounce.
The new location right across from 
UF’s campus will allow customers to grab food for lunch or as a late-night snack while in midtown. The restaurant will probably be open until 2 a.m. or 3 a.m. on some nights of the week, Cheng said.
SushiCHAO will have a takeout win-
dow facing University Avenue to make it easy for customers to grab food in the wee hours.
For those who would like to dine in, 
there is the option of indoor and outdoor seating. Customers will be allowed to park in the lot in front of SushiCHAO, the same one used for Mochi Frozen Yogurt.
“We hope this eating trend will help 
our Bento Cafe and Mochi Frozen Yogurt family while still bringing the same cui-sine our customers have grown to love,” Cheng said.Bento, Mochi owners to open new restaurantHickson
“The food will mostly be 
Asian, mostly Korean, Chinese 
and Japanese.”
Paul Cheng
SushiCHAO general managerMEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
Every day, Donna Lutz turns off Uni-
versity Avenue onto her tree-shaded 
street, serenaded by songbirds.
After moving to Gainesville in 1999, 
Lutz found her personal real estate par -
adise, but somewhere along the way, crowded streets complicated the beauty.
To fix it and other issues she sees in the 
city , Lutz, 66, is vying for the Gainesville City Commission at-large 1 seat. She is one of five candidates in the race so far.
Rather than running on a concept-
heavy campaign, Lutz, a real estate agent, said her push for the commission seat will center on two concerns: inspir -
ing voters to go to the ballot box and giv-ing those who want their voices heard in politics a chance to speak.
“I wanted everyone to know — and 
that’s my motto: ‘Your voice counts,’” she said.
Lutz said she’s heard of times when people waited at City Commission meet-ings to speak, only to be sent home with-out a chance at the lectern.
More than anything, she said, she 
wants to run a campaign that can raise March’s citywide election voter turnout of 14.87 percent by emphasizing team-work between the city, its businesses and UF. 
Lutz said she is interested in hearing 
from residents about specific issues that concern them.
If elected, she said, she would ap-
prove projects that benefit the whole city , rather than only one facet.
“Drawing the lines in the sand di-
vides the community,” she said. “That type of thinking decreases voter turnout … We’ve got to be more than that. We’ve got to be citizens of the community.”
One issue she said she’s interested in 
tackling is transportation around the city, particularly on UF’s campus.
Lutz said freshmen and sophomores 
weren’t allowed to have cars when she attended UF.
“If there aren’t room for the cars, then 
no cars,” she said.
She said she’d like to encourage busi-
nesses to set up near the airport to create more jobs in the city. She’d also like to strengthen the relationship between UF and the City of Gainesville.
Born in Boca Raton, Fla., Lutz gradu-
ated from UF in 1967 with a Spanish major. After that, she was a Pan Ameri-can World Airways flight attendant for about 14 years and was elected to be a union chairwoman. In the mid-1980s, she moved to DeLand, Fla., and then Atlanta, where she worked as a high school Span-ish teacher and tennis coach.
If elected to the commission, Lutz 
said, she’d use her experience as a union leader to negotiate and her knowledge as a high-school teacher to help everyone work together.
“Together everyone achieves more,” 
she said. “No left. No right. Just for -
ward.”4, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Donna Lutz, 66, stands outside her home Friday. She is run -
ning for the Gainesville City Commission at-large 1 seat.
Commission candidate wants to improve city, UF relations
SHAYNA POSSES
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cold Stone Creamery is making wishes 
come true with the 10th Annual World’s 
Largest Ice Cream Social on Tuesday from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
Patrons who stop into a Cold Stone 
will get a free 3-ounce sundae created es-pecially for the Make-A-Wish Foundation. Tracey Coleman, manager of the Cold Stone Creamery on 3443 SW Archer Road, said the company partnered with the foundation in 2001, raising $4 million to grant the wishes of children with life-threatening illnesses. 
“Every year we try to make it bigger,” 
she said. “We want to make everybody’s wishes come true.”At socials in all locations, cups of the 
Sprinkle With Wishes Creation will be giv-en out. This sundae features Sweet Cream ice cream, a brownie, rainbow sprinkles and fudge.
While no donation is required to receive 
a creation at the social, Coleman urged all attendees to give what they can. All of the donations received go straight to the Make-A-Wish Foundation, Coleman said.
“Our big turnout has allowed us to 
make these children’s dreams come true,” she said. “Any little bit helps.”Cold Stone serves up free wishesLAw enforcement
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
Apollo, led by Marion County Sheriff’s 
Office Deputy Greg Combs, let his nose lead 
the way Friday.
The German shepherd police dog sniffed 
around four vans in search of narcotics on the lawn between Ben Hill Griffin Stadium and University Avenue. Three of the four vans had drugs in them that he needed to detect as part of his yearly certification re-quirements.
Apollo was one of 17 dogs that complet-
ed the test on Friday , according to Sgt. Nigel Lowe, the officer in charge of the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office’s K-9 unit. 
The University Police Department, Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Office, Collier County Sheriff’s Office, Marion County Sheriff’s Of-fice, Seminole County Sheriff’s Office, Perry Police Department and Boca Raton Police Department were also present. 
The certification events usually aren’t as 
large, but the agencies joined after UPD and ASO arranged to test their dogs at the same 
time, said UPD Sgt. Matt 
Davis. 
Narcotics like mari-
juana, Ecstasy and co-caine were used for the testing, as well as materi-als like C4, Davis said. 
The dogs had to de-
tect the materials in vans parked on the field and 
in four rooms of Touchdown Terrace. UPD was certifying its two police dogs, Gator and Rocky , who train at least once a week. 
If they didn’t pass the tests Friday , they 
could retake the certification exams again af-ter a 24-hour wait period, Davis said.Police dogs take annual exam
“We want to make everybody’s 
wishes come true.”
Tracey Coleman
manager
combs
 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
A new burrito joint is looking to 
expand south of the border — the 
state border, that is.
Atlanta-based Willy’s Mexicana 
Grill is opening up its first out-of-state franchise in Gainesville.
Carl Hoover, the franchisee of the 
restaurant, said construction is under way. He said he expects the restau-rant, on Southwest Archer Road, to open in early November.
The restaurant is known for its bur -
ritos, but it also serves quesadillas, ta-cos, salads and nachos.
Hoover said he has eaten at Willy’s 
in Atlanta for years and had always wanted to open a franchise. 
“If I died tomorrow and didn’t get 
to open a Willy’s, that would be my only regret,” he said.Hoover is the vice president of 
Hoover Foods, the Suwanee, Ga.,-based company that owns the Wen-dy’s franchises in Gainesville, includ-ing the one at 3611 SW Archer Road.
Willy’s will share this parcel of land 
with the newly renovated Wendy’s, which is set to open later this week, Hoover said.
The fast-food restaurant was vacat-
ed in 2008 after Hoover Foods’ lease ran out and the company was unsuc-cessful in its attempt to buy the build-ing outright.
Hoover Foods bought the property 
in 2010, according to county records, and has since been renovating the building that was originally built in 1978.
The improvements include techno-
logical upgrades, such as digital menu boards and a Coca-Cola Freestyle ma-chine — a touch screen soda fountain with 125 flavors of Coke products.Atlanta-based eatery to 
open in early NovemberAMANDA COHEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Friday marked the 31st anniversary of 
China’s One-Child Policy, about six UF students 
rallied on Turlington Plaza to spread awareness of the gendercide of 37 million girls. 
“With the One-Child Policy restricting fami-
lies to one child each, there is so much pressure from women’s families for their one child to be a son,” said Sara Hill, director of development for All Girls Allowed. 
All Girls Allowed, an international nonprofit 
organization, seeks to raise awareness about One-Child Policy, rescue girls from abandonment and abuse, and celebrate the life of females in China.
The policy originally was intended to be a tem-
porary solution to the lack of resources for Chi-na’s growing population, according to All Girls Allowed. However, the policy is not expected to end for at least another decade.
All Girls Allowed, along with local sponsor UF 
Pro-Life Alliance, is leading the local campaign to strike down the policy.
The international campaign, titled “37 Sec-
onds,” is running in six countries and has a pres-ence at more than 150 colleges in the United States.
According to Jean Morrow, a 23-year-old po-litical science graduate student, in Chinese cul-ture it’s more prestigious for families to have boys than to have girls.
The results of the policy have resulted in abor -
tion, infanticide, sex trafficking and abandon-ment, she said.
About 300,000 officials and 92 million mem-
bers of the National Population and Family Plan-ning Commission of China enforce the policy . Punishments for illegally having a child include forced sterilization, imprisonment of relatives, job loss and monetary fines. 
Brianne Umhoefer, co-president of the UF Pro-
Life Alliance, said the main goal of Friday’s rally was to get people to support the cause and end China’s policy.
“I just can’t imagine someone giving me that 
ultimatum: Get rid of your child or I’m going to imprison your family,” she said. “It’s a huge in-justice, and it needs to be ended.”
For more information, visit allgirlsallowed.
org/sign-petition.Students decry one-child policy
“I just can’t imagine someone      
giving me that ultimatum: Get rid of 
your child or I’m going to imprison your 
family.”
Brianne Umhoefer
co-president of the UF Pro-Life Alliancehuman rightsReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
28 TOTAL VOTESToday’s question: Are you going to vote in this week’s 
Student Government elections?
Friday’s question: Are you planning on 
buying a pumpkin for Halloween this year? 43% YES
57% NOOut of Bounds
Lawmakers should 
back off athletics
Lawmakers are in an interesting position. 
By simply writing it down and voting for its approval, 
legislation can create the conditions where tens, hundreds 
or even thousands of people can be locked up and put in jail.
For the most part, people agree with common criminal stat-
utes. If you purposefully kill or injure someone, you should 
probably be locked up. 
But every now and then, some legislator somewhere feels as 
though he’s not doing his job correctly if he doesn’t make some law that puts someone in jail for doing something. 
Last week, that legislator was Florida State Sen. Steve Oel-
rich, R-Cross Creek. 
Oelrich is the chair of the Senate Higher Education Commit-
tee, and to him, collegiate athletics needs fixin’. 
The alleged benefits given to the University of Miami players 
by a booster, and similar incidents at Miami and other schools, show Oelrich that something needs to be done. 
And Oelrich is determined to make something happen. There are currently sanctions for agents who provide im-
proper benefits in the state of Florida, but Oelrich thinks they don’t go far enough. 
For inspiration, Oelrich looks to a recent Texas law that, ac-
cording to the Gainesville Sun, created “penalties of up to 10 years in prison for agents who cost college athletes their eligibil-ity.” 
It’s about time someone started putting these creators of cha-
os and destruction behind bars so that our families and children can be safe.
The desire to make college athletics “uncorrupted” by the 
money and benefits that some believe pollute professional sports is understandable. 
First of all, this issue should not be decided or regulated by 
the state of Florida or any government for that matter. 
For the most part, this should remain between the NCAA 
and the athletic departments of the participating universities. 
The integrity of college sports is not a matter of  public con-
cern, in the legal sense. Many people may care about college sports, but their extent of regulation should remain internal and institutional rather than statutory . 
Also, the fact that this law is prescribing up to 10 years in 
prison for this behavior is completely ridiculous. People convict-ed of attempted murder can receive lower sentences than this. 
No physical harm occurs when an agent gives a player ben-
efits, and certainly this agent does not present a danger to the public. 
If anything, there could be civil consequences for this behav-
ior, but even that is going too far. 
In reality, Oelrich probably does not care much for the integ-
rity of the NCAA or college sports. Like national lawmakers and the issue of steroids in the MLB, Oelrich saw the chance to put his name out there and jumped on it. 
It’s a very effective re-election strategy, but the power to use 
force should not be abused for political reasons. However, that is mostly the case.SG spends students’ money on trivial things
I am tired of the most wasteful government body I know 
spending my money. 
No, I’m not talking about the federal government, 
but rather our own Student Government. 
Most of my friends love free student printing, Student 
Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol and pizza at student organiza-tion meetings, which are all funded by SG. Unfortunately, that Hungry Howie’s pizza slice is likely the most expen-sive you have ever eaten. 
Student Government is funded by Activity and Service 
fees collected by the university and then distributed to SG. Assuming a 30 credit-hour year, the average UF stu-dent pays $436.50 annually to fund the activities of SG. 
This figure doesn’t even include fees for technology, 
health care, transportation, financial aid (yes, there’s a fee for that) and other categories for a total of $1,160.40 annu-ally, based on a 30 credit-hour year.
SG also allocates millions of dollars to our student-
funded organizations to further student life. However, it also imposes regulations on officers of these organizations so nightmarish that it doesn’t make sense to accept SG fees unless a group’s budget is at least thousands of dol-lars. Furthermore, if officers don’t spend their budgeted money on something, they are guaranteed to lose it for the next year. There are no cost-control mechanisms to help keep student fees under control. 
Student organizations have the incentive to spend 
money on anything, including sunglasses, ping-pong balls and shirts, just so they can keep their budget growing. 
Both parties in this SG election cycle show why the 
only way to change Student Government is to abolish it and return the money they waste to students. The Unite Party and the Students Party want to keep Library West open longer, which is helpful during exam week, but is it necessary during the entire year?
One of the parties wants to install water bottle fillers 
on water fountains (like the ones at the Reitz Union) all across campus. Instead of tilt-ing a water bottle slightly to the side, they think we should spend money to stand them up straight. That sounds like a great idea, and I think the members of the party that proposed it should pay for it out of their own pock-ets. 
In addition to all the services 
SG spends money on, we have to spend to maintain SG it-self. The Student Body president, vice president and trea-surer make thousands of dollars a year in salaries. They also receive BlackBerrys and phone plans to talk to each other about Student Government business. Without SG, meeting space on the third floor of the Reitz Union would open up for student organizations, not to mention the end of Alligator stories about another useless Student Senate meeting. 
Instead of having SG candidates put up a whiteboard 
in Turlington Plaza asking how we should spend the Ac-tivity and Service budget of $16.7 million, why shouldn’t the Student Body get to figure that out individually?  
Accent Speakers’ Bureau routinely spends tens of 
thousands of dollars per speaker bringing in random ac-tors from some HBO or MTV series nobody watches. Stu-dent Government Productions is sometimes successful in bringing in cool bands, but it also it also wastes thousands of dollars.  Why should the entire Student Body pay for a band to come to UF that only a small group wants to see?
Apparently our Student Government saved us $25,000 
by getting students to vote on electronic rather than paper ballots in its upcoming  election. I think that’s a great start, but we could save as much as $16.7 million if we didn’t have to vote at all.
Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at UF. 
His column appears on Mondays.
Travis Hornsby
letters@alligator.org MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Scientists at CERN reported Thursday that preliminary 
data suggest that neutrino particles sent to the Italian Gran Sasso laboratory 732 kilometers away showed up 
a tiny fraction of a second earlier than expected as dictated by the speed of light. 
Faster-than-light particles would overturn much of the 
basis for modern physics. However, the researchers are ex-tremely hesitant in declaring their data to be conclusive. In-stead, they are publishing their findings in an effort to either corroborate or falsify their claims. 
Though the team has run the experiment some 15,000 
times, there is a high possibility of “systematic errors” that could prove a false-positive for faster-than-c speeds. 
Antonio Ereditato, who holds a doctorate and is part of 
the CERN research team, hopes “that another, independent experiment finds the same thing — then [he] would be re-lieved.” No conclusions yet, but the implications would not be insignificant. 
Elsewhere Thursday, in science or art or both, researchers 
at Amsterdam’s Rijksmuseum discovered a second portrait under Francisco Goya’s “Portrait of Don Ramón Satué.” The unfinished work depicts a French general, or possibly Napo-leon Bonaparte’s brother, Joseph. Researchers used an X-ray technique developed by the University of Antwerp and the Delft University of Technology. 
The painting’s alterations reveal 
the political context in which Goya worked: Following Ferdinand VII’s restoration, he sought to distance 
himself from the previous French rule, thus re-purposing the portrait. 
Having attended UF, I cannot help but feel that the hu-
manities and the sciences are in opposition. Perhaps I over-state the dichotomy. Perhaps I am too vested in the humani-ties. 
However, I do not think it is hard to see that the humani-
ties are not well, here or abroad. Underfunded or unproduc-tive, the debate rages. Regardless, this university is a re-search university, and in this cathedral we worship science. Gatorade or Tim Tebow is our savior. 
This is not a useful way of thinking, though. The afore-
mentioned “scientific” discoveries make it salient that you must reject the binary. The humanities and the hard sciences need not be opposed; there is no hierarchy of thought. Ront-gen showed us the second painting, proved that it exists, but art history interprets and makes meaning. 
One could argue that I am making much ado about sci-
ence offering new insights into art. And I am. But I must stress that it is a two-way street. Scientific thought is medi-ated and interpreted by art. Insofar as art’s purpose (art does not have a purpose) is to describe man’s relation to his situ-ation, the goal of science greatly coincides. 
Modernist literature is marked by alienation, skepticism 
and chance. At times, as in the dramatic works of Bertolt Brecht, it sought to evoke alienation as a means of challeng-ing conceptions and spurring critical thought. 
At the same time Albert Einstein was publishing his theo-
ries of relativity, Erwin Schrodinger and Werner Heisenberg were inventing new physics and Edwin Hubble expanded knowledge of the universe. Einstein had some things to say about time, but so did Virginia Woolf and James Joyce. 
If you have ever walked the “Waste Land” and heard 
“What the Thunder Said,” you no doubt understand the new fractured reality of the 20th century.
Yes, it is dangerous to conflate the advances of science 
and literature. If I over-speak, very well. Nonetheless, art and science are the scions of inquiry and philosophy. They are equal yet  different translations of the same thing: experi-ence, whether it is physical or mental. The sum is far greater than the parts when they are allowed to dialogue. 
Ryan Fenton graduated from UF with a degree in English.
Art, science should have equal importance to human experienceGuest column
Ryan Fenton
Speaking Out
I am telling you this story to raise aware-
ness about the countless hook-ups that have happened on those pristine-looking 
beds and couches at Pier 1 Imports.
It was roughly midnight. I was still in my 
long underwear from skiing by the time I ar -
rived at a vague friend-of-a-friend’s house to see a guy. After a little drinking here, a little Beirut there and a little of that funny party chit-chat that doesn’t actually impart any useful information, I found myself having a nice little banter with a new guy. He had a lot going for him that night: blue eyes, dark hair, alluringly foreign name and, most important-ly, I had never laid eyes on him before.
I began to really like him when for some 
inane reason we took a cramped drive to his apartment. I felt like I’d known him for weeks by the time we all tumbled out of the car cov-ered in black-brown tire gunk and giggled our way into his apartment. When his friend conked out on his couch, we stayed at his place for the night, had sex and took another car ride back to my car in the morning.
Nope, that is not the true ending. We 
didn’t have sex … yet. The night was not young, but it was far from old. We made it back to the party and ended up taking a walk around the neighborhood. In the soft snow at the ass-crack of dawn, the conversa-tion turned to his job at his family’s furniture store. Serendipitously, we happened to be strolling nearby said furniture store. How tempting those rows and rows of beds were in the showrooms! Many games of hide-and-seek later, and we followed the naughtier lure of the many poufs and chaises. On one of those leather couches I had my first one-night stand.
I have not been totally honest with you: My 
goal of telling this story is not to raise aware-ness of furniture store frolics, or even to plant the naughty-seed for your next visit to Pier 1 Imports (although I hope I have done that anyway).
I left out the most crucial piece, which is a 
question I ask any of my friends when hear -
ing about their adventures: Was it good?
I am not the biggest fan of the one-night 
stand because I feel it is rarely that great; it is exciting in the way the gossip about a one-night stand is exciting. 
A few months after my first one-night 
stand, I was even less of a fan. That guy and I ended up running into each other a couple weeks later, and we dated for a few months. This was a really valuable sexual experience because I was able to contrast one-night-stand sex to what can really happen sexually with a person over a span of months. 
Having a one-night stand that is full of fantastic, yummy sex in addition to being new and exciting is rare. It’s like picking someone off the street who you think looks like a good chef and having them make you a sandwich. Maybe they have the same tastes as you, or maybe it’s just a random combi-nation of ingredients. With a new chef also potentially comes that awkward time where you have to say, “This was nice, but I never want to eat that again,” which can never be phrased suavely.
Finding that intersection of exciting and 
satisfying is tough. It seems that once you’ve got the exciting part, you’re probably going to have to work toward making it satisfying. Alas, the fact that many long-term couples want to “spice up” their sex lives shows that once you have satisfying sex, you’re in search of a new sandwich ingredient.
Lauren C. writes for the Cornell Daily Sun at 
Cornell University.
Finding sex that is exciting, satisfying is an ongoing challenge UWire
Lauren C.
UWire� EACH TREE PLANTED OFFSETS ONE TON OF 
CARBON IN THE ATMOSPHERE.
  ADRIANNA PAIDAS
 Alligator Contributing Writer 
 
  It is 9 a.m. on a hot September morning in Gainesville. 
  David Hanan, 24, and Christopher Wolf, 25, keep wiping 
their eyes as sweat drips down into them. Both men crowd over a wide, foot-deep hole as they shake the roots of a young sand live oak tree.    As Wolf grips the neck of the shovel, his triceps pop.  The roots below the ground are thick, and breaking through 
them is tiresome.  
  Each month, Wolf, Hanan and other supporters of Neutral 
Gator voluntarily shovel dirt in the sweltering heat. The trees were planted Friday at Prairie Creek Reserve.
  Neutral Gator, part of local environmental organization 
Earth Givers, is a 2008 initiative designed to help Gainesville residents reduce their carbon footprints. 
  Earth Givers seeks to reduce local greenhouse emission 
through its tree planting and weatherization projects.  It is these gases (carbon dioxide in particular) that are the 
principle cause of global warming, according to the group. 
  The main goal of Neutral Gator is to help UF reach carbon 
neutrality by 2025. This means that for all of the carbon pro-duced on campus, mostly during football games, there will be local, sustainable activities and practices to offset, or reduce, the amount of carbon released into the air. 
  Planting trees is one of the most effective and tangible ways 
to reduce carbon, said Jacob Cravey, 30, director of Neutral Gator and executive director of Earth Givers. 
  “The whole concept is that a carbon offset is most valuable 
where it is created,” Cravey said. 
  Between all of the electricity used to power the stadium and 
the gas used by fans to travel, every game at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium releases about 2,000 tons of carbon into the atmo-sphere. 
  Because only one tree offsets one ton of carbon, Neutral 
Gator isn’t planting just a few trees. 
  Over the last year, under the initiative and in collaboration 
with the Alachua County Trust and other local environmen-tal organizations, Neutral Gator has been responsible for the planting of more than 4,000 trees in local forests. By January , the group hopes to have planted 10,000 trees.
  Because of these efforts, the University Athletic Association 
has joined the initiative and now has the ﬁ  rst carbon neutral athletics program in the country.
  “These trees are scrubbing the air of carbon dioxide,” said 
Hanan, a recent UF graduate and director of outreach and edu-cation for Neutral Gator. “Even if it’s not something we can notice right away, we are building the fort so that in the future, our air won’t be as detrimentally affected by hundreds of thou-sands of people.” 
  Most of the trees planted are longleaf pines, which are in-
digenous to Gainesville. It typically takes two to three years for the trees to grow and really start offsetting, according to Ivor Kincaide, the natural resource manager for Alachua Conserva-tion Trust. 
  The trees are purchased with donations to Neutral Gator.   The donations are also used to purchase products for its 
weatherization projects on low-income housing. Under the program, trained volunteers go into homes and install energy-efﬁ  cient light bulbs and shower heads, among other products, which can lessen household utility bills by $30, Cravey said.
  Because only ﬁ  ve volunteers showed up on Friday , around 
100 trees were planted. Usually , with more volunteers, they will plant between 1,000 and 2,000 trees. 
  The next planting will be in October.   Those interested 
should visit the Neutral Gator Facebook page.
  “I know it is early, but it is so nice to take the time and con-
tribute to the well-being of everyone here in Gainesville,” Wolf said as he trekked through the forest in his Birkenstock sandals. “It’s worth the ant bites.” 8, ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
 Adrianna Paidas / Alligator 
  Jacob Cravey, 30; Ivor Kincaide, 38; Christopher Wolf, 25; Alex Potts, 25; and David Hanan, 24, planted around-
trees Friday morning at Paynes Prairie as part of a project with Neutral Gator. 
 Neutral Gator reduces UF’s carbon footprint by planting treesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive
$349 4/4 All-Inclusive
VISA Gift Cards Available
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line.
All utilities included. Furnished.Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398           10-14-11-2-1
7 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS
2BR/1BA duplex. New kitchen, W/D incl. Quiet area. Available now. $625/mo incl wa-ter. Call 352-871-6413   9-30-11-10-1
SIGN & DESIGN OPEN HOUSE!
Take a tour Oct 7th from 12-6
*Food*Prizes*Music*Specials
Rates $339 and up $0 app.
Now signing! 352.379.9300
10-7-11-12-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
     1,2,3,BR’s – Welcome Home!
·         HUGE floorplans! * H20/Sewer Incl!·         W/D Avail! * Pets Loved!·         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis·        376-2507 * BivensCove.com 12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    10-17-11-40-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1800/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    10-10-11-35-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-588710-31-46-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
Spacious 3br/2ba/2cg home in Blues Creek, 
huge Mbr/ba w/walk-in closet,cent ac/heat w/sec sys,internet hookup, all appls, W/D, $1200/mo, 7953 NW 48 way, call 954-805-7827, 561-912-6223, billyo110708@att.net  9-30-11-18-2
SPACIOUS TOWNHOME with backyard,
2BR/1.5BA
off Archer Road near UF.
Contact 386-328-6229.
e-mail moritae@yahoo.com $529/month
9-29-11-15-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   9-27-11-10-2
1BR/1BA Apts, side-by-side. Large screened-
in porch, W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499/each. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2 & 3 Please call 352-371-3473    10-5-11-15-2
Peaceful living, large floorplans, closets 
galore, FREE CABLE, must see upgrades 1/1 from $550 2/2 from $595352-372-9913                          10-5-11-14-2
OLD FLORIDA STYLE COTTAGE.
Central h/a, laundry with w/d, large screened
porch. Perfect for a grad student or profes-
sional. Walk to UF. 2703 NW 2nd ave.
$795 mo. www.flalcam.com 352-332-5836
9-30-11-10-2
● 2BR2BA HOUSE, w/carport, W/D hk-ups. 
Pet ok. $750/mo● 1BR/1BA APT Pet ok. $475/mo.Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644    10-14-11-20-2
ATTN: UF and Shands Employees 
2 BR 1 Bath homes in Gainesville. 
Spacious fenced-in yards, bring your pets! 
Brand new energy upgrades. $570-$660/mo
Near 6th St. on 39th Ave. 336-9477   
10-17-25-2
Move in October 1st Charleston Place con-
do third floor end unit,very nice! 2293 NW 16th Terrace, 2 bdr/2 ba, tile floors, screen patio,washer/dryer, One mile to campus! Close to Shands. $800 *6mo-12mo lease. Call 904-268-5425 or cfgibby@aol   10-3-11-7-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    9-28-11-77-2
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Big house/all amenities/party rooms, near 
midtown and law school. Rooms $350/mo. John 373-5630 (Scipub) or jbhatl@aol.com.    9-27-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 11
Here at Techmodo we give CASH for your 
electronics! We also repair smartphones, gaming systems, computers and ipods! (352) 872-5881 6450 SW Archer Rd (Next to Beef O Bradys)   9-26-5-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10MUSIC STORE NEAR UF-Buy-Sell-Trade@Discounts We also offer music classes in all instruments & dance. We are the only chari-table music & dance school. Scholarships available. studiopercussion.org 352-338-8302     10-20-20-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      10-6-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
$$ CASH PAID, UP TO $500 $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The Independent Florida Alligator
IT Department
Is now accepting applications for a
STUDENT  INTERN
If you are a student able to work 4-10 hours
per week this fall and are eager to gain
valuable hands-on experience in desktop
support and network infrastructure, then stop
by the Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F,
9am-4pm to fill out an application.
Please include available work schedule,
references, and resume.
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   10-5-11-30-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, 
Must be Articulate and Reliable371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G9-30-21-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRINGGreat working environment. PT/FT positions available. Apply in person @ 2906 NW 13Tth St. 352-372-1226 sandysresale.com    9-26-11-10-14
LAW CLERK-P/T. Law student, creative 
problem solver. Green conscious, book lover, passion for writing/knowledge/fitness/MMA. 626 NE 1st St, 32601. Send resume & writing sample to paulsrothstein@gmail.com    9-27-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   10-12-20-14
Female Nanny/ Housekeeper needed in 
Gainesville. Work week is M-F, hours may 
vary to care for one child (9yrs) & our home. If needed, there is a live in option for the right candidate. Contact Paula (352) 263-8962. 9-29-11-10-14
 Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481   9-30-11-10-14
Printroom, Inc. is looking for outgoing and 
motivated Fan Photographers to capture im-ages at the Gators' home games this football season. No exp. required. You must be avail-able for ALL home games. Top performers make between $15-$20/hour. For more info and to apply, please visit: www.facebook.com/Printroom.   9-26-11-5-14
The Smartphone Club needs data entry 
workers to help update our membership list. Must be able to work at home online with-out any supervision. Guaranteed pay for Guaranteed work.www.thesmartphoneclub.com/Colleges/FL    9-27-11-5-14
The Copper Monkey is looking for 
EXPERIENCED Bartenders/Servers/Cooks capable of working in a high volume environ-ment. Please come in and apply Monday-Thursday between 3pm & 5pm.   9-29-5-14
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
$365,000+ Medical Insurance Coverage
Any Doctor, Any Hospital, No Deductible
Limited Health Questions, Apply Online
$6 a day...or LESS!
SixDollarHealthPlan.com
9-28-5-16
Get A Massage!
Proven to help relaxation, regain mental fo-cus and improve test performance!Call Garrett Blanton, L.M.T. MA#55181 @ Advanced Massage Call 328-2919/377-6008.    9-30-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Horse Boarding
15 min from Gainesville. Adjacent to green-way trails. Full or pasture board available. Possible live on farm also. Rates negotiable. Call Eric at 352-572-0959.    9-30-3-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: KEYS
at bus stop near Leonardo's. Scooter, house & USPS mail box key #24535. Call Danny at 317-5683    9-27-3-25WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
KANAPAHA
BOTANICAL GARDENS
HALF OFF WITH GATOR ONE CARD 
DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER.
Come and enjoy our beautiful gardens!
9-30-20-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique, 
KEY WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in. Clothes, Gifts, Art, Books, Music, Plants... Hwy 441S.... 15 min that could change you.   10-26-31-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
cross country
JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
 
Many obstacles may challenge an ath-
lete’s pursuit of success. 
UF sophomore runner Mark Parrish nev-
er imagined a car would be his obstacle until 
he was actually hit by one.
Only weeks after Parrish was struck by 
a car while riding his bike, he shook off the pain of a nagging sprained ankle and put on a show for the home crowd at the Mark Bostick Golf Course on Saturday in the 23rd Annual Mountain Dew Invitational.
Parrish’s seventh-place finish was second best for the Gators, trailing only sophomore Matt Mizereck, who finished second at the event. But it was Parrish’s effort that defined the Florida cross country teams at the MDI.
Parrish’s grit, combined with that of his 
teammates, elevated Florida’s performance against the newfound competition presented by North Carolina and Michigan. Despite an expanded and intimidating field of teams, the UF men pulled out a second-place fin-ish, leaving a positive impression on coach Todd Morgan.
Morgan called Parrish “one of the tough-
est guys [he] has ever been around,” and it was this toughness that appealed most to Florida’s coach.
“Great athletes like competing against 
other great athletes,” Morgan said. 
“We knew that those 
two teams (North Carolina and Michigan) were com-
ing down here, and we were excited to see how we stacked up against them.” 
The determination 
and will was not limited to the Florida men, as the 
women’s squad pushed itself to a high that no other team could compare to on Satur-day. Led by senior Genevieve LaCaze and junior Florence N’Getich, who finished first and second overall, respectively, the women won their seventh straight MDI and second meet of the year.
“They probably will trade off beating 
each other all year,” Morgan said of LaCaze and N’Getich.
“But either way, they are pushing each 
other to be better and that makes the team better, too.”
The Gators will need their gritty determi-
nation as they head up to Madison, Wis., in three weeks to face the nation’s best teams in the Wisconsin adidas Invitational.
Parrish, Gators finish second, women take first at home meet
Parrish
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Texas A&M Officially Accepted
The Southeastern Conference announced Sunday it 
would officially accept the Aggies into the conference effective July 1, 2012. Alabama Game Time Decided
Saturday’s showdown with the Crimson Tide will be broadcast nationally on CBS and will be an 8 p.m. kickoff. Florida has played just one day game all season. � GATORS DEFENSE FORCES 
SEASON-HIGH FOUR TURN-OVERS IN 48-10 ROUT AGAINST THE WILDCATS ON THE ROAD. 
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
LEXINGTON, Ky. — Jaye 
Howard has reunited with a 
place he had not visited in six years: the end zone.
In the second quarter of Flor -
ida’s 48-10 win at Kentucky on Saturday, the 303-pound defen-sive tackle recovered a fumble and trotted 2 yards for a touch-down, his first since his junior year at Apopka Jones High, when he scored against Lake City Co-lumbia High.
If it hadn’t been Howard 
crossing the goal line, it could have easily been another defen-sive lineman.
“I don’t know how he got 
that ball,” junior defensive tack-le Omar Hunter said. “I have to watch the replay, because as soon as I picked my head up, he was in the end zone, out of breath after 2 yards.”
In a nickel package on the 
play, linebacker Jon Bostic rushed untouched off the right edge. The Gators ran the same play earlier in the game, but that time Ken-tucky quarterback Morgan New-ton dumped the ball off to an uncovered receiver before Bostic could break through.
The second time, linebacker 
Jelani Jenkins picked up the tight end, forcing Newton to hold the ball longer. Bostic hit him from the blind side, jarring the ball loose and giving Howard the ef-fortless score.
“We do that, we take pres-
sure off the offense,” Howard said. “We get to the quarterback and make big plays — turnovers, fumble recoveries — it just brings energy to everyone around us.”
Despite keeping its first three 
opponents under wraps, Florida’s coaching staff was unhappy with the defense’s inability to cause turnovers. 
In wins against FAU, UAB and 
Howard touchdown one of multiple game-changers for UF
The Associated Press
Florida defensive tackle Jaye Howard (6) caught a fumble by Kentucky quarterback Morgan Newton and 
scored a touchdown in the second quarter of a 48-10 win in Lexington, Ky., on Saturday. 
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
As Kelly Murphy goes, so do the 
Gators — for better or for worse.
On a day when the All-American 
had trouble getting into a rhythm, 
No. 6 Florida (9-3, 2-1 Southeast-ern Conference) followed suit, fall-ing to Tennessee 3-2 (25-21, 20-25, 25-21, 19-25, 18-16) Sunday in the O’Connell Center.
“They played great defense the 
whole night and made it really hard on us trying to find kills,” Murphy said. “We never really found our own energy.”
The senior setter got off to a 
slow start for the Gators, recording just one kill until midway through the second set.She hit a season-low .171 for the 
match, but still managed to record her 26th career triple-double with 10 kills, 21 assists and 14 digs.
“You’re only as good as your 
best player and our best player had 
an off night — it happens,” UF coach Mary Wise 
said.
While Murphy 
struggled against the Volunteers, senior outside hit-ters Kristy Jaeckel 
and Stephanie Ferrell were there to pick up the slack offensively.
Jaeckel led the Gators with 16 
kills while Ferrell chimed in with 14 and a .400 hitting percentage Florida drops match to 
Tennessee in five sets
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
A dominating second-half performance by 
Florida against Tennessee on Sunday was not 
enough to overcome an offensively inefficient and mistake-filled first-half effort.
The No. 6 Gators (8-3, 1-1 Southeastern 
Conference) fell behind the No. 12 Volunteers (8-2, 1-1 SEC) 3-0 in the first half before fall-ing, 4-2, in Knoxville, Tenn.
Florida mustered just two shots in the first 
half — neither of which was on goal — be-fore controlling the run-of-play much of the second half with two unanswered goals but ultimately coming up empty.
“We kind of dug ourselves a little bit of a 
hole in the first half on efficient finishing by Tennessee but errors on our part,” said Flori-da coach Becky Burleigh.The Volunteers struck quickly, making it 
1-0 in the fifth minute when junior forward Alexis Owens intercepted an attempted back pass from Gators defender Katie Kadera to goalkeeper Taylor Burke and put the ball in the back of the right side of the net.
In the 23rd minute, Tennessee took advan-
tage of another Florida mistake when mid-fielder Caroline Brown jumped on a Florida pass at midfield. 
Brown played a through ball to senior for -
ward and Gainesville native Emily Dowd at the top of the box as she was breaking past the 
Gators’ back line and put it past Burke to the right for the goal.
Burleigh said the ma-
jority of Florida’s errors occurred on plays where it simply had trouble playing the ball out of the back.  
Such a play led to Owens’ second goal, 
when she took the ball into the box and beat multiple UF defenders before getting tackled. Florida was unable to clear the ball, and Ow-ens recovered to put a shot past Burke in the upper-right corner of the net from 10 yards out.
Florida came out aggressive in the second Gators fall short against Vols
Team couldn’t 
overcome 3-0 halftime deficit
UF Soccer
see soccer, PA ge 16see Defense, PA ge 15
Wise
Quotable
“We’re going to be fine versus everybody 
we play — starting with Alabama.” 
Will Muschamp
UF coachsee V oLLeYBALL, PA ge 16VoLLeYBALL MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
UF scores 21 in first quarter, wins 25th straight against UK
the underneath passing game, offensive 
coordinator Charlie Weis had the Gators come out firing Saturday with mixed re-sults.
Quarterback John Brantley looked 
downfield early, but for the first time all season, Florida failed to score on its open-ing drive, going three-and-out on its first possession.
But the attempts to establish a down-
field passing game eventually paid off af-ter linebacker Lerentee McCray forced a fumble at the Kentucky 45-yard line and Omar Hunter recovered it, giving the Gators prime field position.
On Florida’s ensuing play, Brantley 
hit Christian in stride down the seam for a 45-yard score to give Florida an early 7-0 lead it would not relinquish.
It was Christian’s first touchdown at 
UF, and it marked the longest reception by a tight end in the SEC this season.
After Brantley (8 of 14, 115 yards and a 
touchdown) and Christian got the offense rolling, there was no stopping the Gators, who scored their first 21 points in a span of 2:08 on offense.
Demps was the next to find the end 
zone, taking a handoff 20 yards down the right sideline before crossing the goal line to finish a four-play, 43-yard drive. Burton capped off the 21-point spurt with a 1-yard score before Kentucky was able to tack on a field goal as time expired in the first quarter.
Florida has outscored opponents 54-3 
in the opening frame this season, and holds a 94-3 advantage against Kentucky in the first quarter dating back to 2008.
Although the game was well in hand after the opening period, Demps and the Gators weren’t done yet.
Demps added an 84-yard touchdown 
run early in the third — the longest run of his career and the longest at Florida in a SEC game since Emmitt Smith had a 96-yard run against Mississippi State in 1988.
“As soon as you see that hole, you 
feel like you can get through it, and no one can touch you or tackle you,” Demps said.
The Wildcats couldn’t touch Demps, 
or the rest of the Gators, for that matter. Florida added a 60-yard touchdown from Gillislee late, and 11 different Gators touched the ball on offense while the de-fense turned in one of its better perfor -
mances of the season, forcing four turn-overs and recording four sacks to secure Florida’s 25th straight win against Ken-tucky.
Entering Alabama week at 4-0 for the 
second year in a row, Florida turns its attention to a Crimson Tide team that Demps said “humbled” the Gators last season. 
“You look forward to this game,” safe-
ty Matt Elam said. “This is why you come to Florida, to play big games like this. We’re looking forward to it. It’s a big SEC team, so we’re going to practice hard and we’re going to play hard.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.
org.FOOTBALL , from page 1
Maegan Dennis and Greg Luca / Alligator Staff
Gators defense forces four turnovers, provides boost for offense
Tennessee, Florida caused three total turnovers. On Satur -
day, the Gators got four. 
For the first time this season, the defense gave its of-
fense a boost. 
After Florida punted on its first two possessions, junior 
linebacker Lerentee McCray knocked the ball out of UK 
running back Josh Clemons’ hands. 
One play later, John Brantley connected with tight end 
Gerald Christian for a 45-yard touchdown, and the rout was on.
Safety Matt Elam later snagged his second interception in as many games, and the Gators had another touchdown after two plays.
On their first four drives of the game, the Wildcats 
turned the ball over twice and moved the chains just once. 
Florida added two more takeaways: Howard’s fum-ble recovery, and freshman linebacker Michael Taylor’s third-quarter interception. Florida scored 24 points off turnovers.
Entering Saturday, Florida was tied for ninth in the 
Southeastern Conference in both interceptions (two) and fumbles forced (one). 
The Gators also ranked 10th with a minus-one turn-
over margin.
“We needed that,” Bostic said. “We stressed that all 
week: ‘We need to find some way to create turnovers.’ We went out and did it.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.DEFENSE , from page 14“As soon as you see that hole, 
you feel like you can get through 
it, and no one can touch you or 
tackle you.”
Jeff Demps
UF running back
“We needed that. We stressed that all week: 
‘We need to find some way to create turnovers.’ 
We went out and did it”
Jon Bostic 
UF linebackeragainst Tennessee (11-2, 4-0 SEC).
However, Ferrell was even more efficient in Fri-
day’s 3-1 (25-12, 25-19, 23-25, 25-18) victory against 
Kentucky (12-3, 3-1 SEC), hitting a season-high .588. 
“Stephanie was really good offensively, but she 
didn’t give us anything defensively,” Wise said.
Two players who did get the job done defensively against Tennessee were middle blocker Betsy Smith and right-side hitter Tangerine Wiggs, both of whom are juniors.
Smith recorded eight block assists and Wiggs had 
six in addition to one solo block. Their efforts helped give Florida a 14-7.5 advantage in blocking against Tennessee.
“We do look at that number, but we also look at 
what’s called quality touches — how many times does the ball hit our hands and what are we doing with it,” Wise said. “Our blocking was actually the weakest it’s been all season, based on [quality touch-es]…it was a bad day when our passing wasn’t very good to also be pretty weak blocking.”
In the assist column, the Vols recorded 64 assists 
compared to just 54 for the Gators.
Making matters worse was that of those 54, soph-
omore setter Chanel Brown and Murphy recorded 50 while the rest of the squad just had four. 
“[Tennessee] definitely won the serving-passing 
battle,” Jaeckel said. “That’s something that we al-ways talk about. ... They definitely were passing bet-ter than we were.”
Despite playing unevenly throughout the match, 
UF still managed to force a fifth set for the fourth time this season.
However, Florida has only won once in a match 
that went the distance, downing No. 8 Texas at the Nike Big Four Classic.
What crippled the Gators most was giving up 
an 11-8 lead in the fifth, which disintegrated after a quick 4-0 run by the Volunteers.
After falling behind 12-11, Florida never regained 
the lead.
“We expect more from a senior-laden team like 
ours, so that’s the biggest disappointment right now,” Wise said.half as freshman forward Jillian Graff was fouled inside the 
Tennessee box in the 47th minute. 
Junior forward Erika Tymrak converted on the ensuing 
penalty kick to score her team-leading eighth goal of the sea-son.
The Gators were able to pull within a goal of the Volun-
teers in the 64th minute when Jo Dragotta played a through ball to Havana Solaun.  Tennessee keeper Julie Eckel got to the ball first, but it ricocheted off of her, bounced off Solaun’s thigh and went into the empty net.
The Gators controlled the ball for the ma-
jority of the remainder of the game, record-
ing 11 second-half shots before Tennessee 
was able to get one off.
But it was the Volunteers’ first shot of the half that ended 
the Gators’ comeback chances.
Owens, who had just one goal on the season coming into 
Sunday’s game, completed a hat trick in the 86th minute when she received a pass from Brown in Tennessee’s attack-ing third.  
She dribbled the ball up the left side and got a shot off by 
a sliding defender, sliding it past a diving Burke to put the game out of reach.
“We had a great response at halftime in terms of com-
ing back, but not quite enough,” Burleigh said.  “A little too late.”
A television broadcast contributed to this report.16, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Senior setter Kelly Murphy hit a season-low .171 in 
Sunday’s loss to Tennessee at home. 
SOCCER , from page 14Tymrak scores eighth 
goal of season in loss
Burleigh
Wise: Blocking numbers deceiving
VOLLEYBALL , from page 14