We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 12 FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Point guard 
Erving 
Walker (right) 
gave UF a lead it 
wouldn’t relinquish 
Thursday night, but 
Florida put up its 
lowest scoring out -
put in coach Billy 
Donovan’s tenure. 
See Story, Page 14.Museum recovers Civil War gun, stolen in 1975, worth $50,000
RICHMOND, Va.  — A Civil War revolver 
that was stolen more than 30 years ago from 
the Museum of the Confederacy has turned up again.
Collections Manager Catherine Wright tells 
WTVR-TV that the .36-caliber Spiller & Burr revolver was stolen in 1975 when the museum collection was moved to a new building.
A woman in Knoxville, Tenn., discovered 
the gun in December in her late father’s be-longings. She tried to sell it to an Ohio antique dealer who traced the gun to the museum.
WTVR reports that the woman’s father 
collected Civil War items. 
It’s not known how he came into pos-
session of the gun. The woman will not face charges.
Wright says the Spiller & Burr revolver 
was one of the first Confederate-manufac-tured handguns. This one has an estimated value of $50,000.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rain
57/41FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 14Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Ace Driver
George Skeris, a general member of the Gator Motorsports club, poses in the shell of an unfinished 
student-built race car while the bodies of past cars hang from the ceiling.  See Story, Page 8.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
For a greyhound, life is a racetrack.
Bred for their speed, the dogs’ early lives are consumed 
by relentless training sessions, the bellow of racing fans and 
countless nights spent in crates.
The best of these canine athletes may race for up to five 
years. But for many greyhounds, their careers have ended by 
the time they are 2-and-a-half years old. 
The race is over. They still have a lifetime ahead of them, 
but many have nowhere to go. 
But these discarded athletes aren’t alone. A group of about 
20 people in Gainesville has dedicated itself to finding perma-nent homes for greyhounds in the community. They comprise the Gainesville chapter of Gold Coast Greyhound Adoptions, a nonprofit organization founded in Clearwater, Fla., in 2003. 
The program has found adoptive homes for more than 
2,500 greyhounds and includes two other chapters in Orlando and Sarasota, founder Bill Sharpsteen said. 
The Gainesville chapter was formed in November by a 
group of people who all owned greyhounds and wanted to raise community awareness about the breed, said Lori Rice, a 
founding member of the Gainesville chapter who also works 
as an assistant research professor in the UF department of ra-diation oncology. 
“They have a long life ahead of them, and it seems like they 
deserve a home,” she said of greyhounds.
The Gainesville chapter places greyhounds in foster homes 
until they can find a family to adopt them, Rice said. 
One greyhound, Stuey, has already found a local home 
thanks to the organization’s efforts. 
Another dog, Outback, is set to be adopted on Saturday. The group finds greyhounds through a network of contacts 
involved with Gold Coast Greyhound Adoption. 
Some dogs come from racing or adoption kennels, while 
others are graduates of the 2nd Chance at Life program, which allows prison inmates to care for retired racing greyhounds, Rice said. They train and give them instruction for eight to 12 weeks, after which the dogs graduate and continue on to find adoptive homes. 
Jody Huston, a member of the Gainesville chapter, has 
two greyhounds that are graduates of the prison program. The dogs have racing names they used while competing, but Huston also gave them nicknames: Kashi, which is Sanskrit for “the enlightened one,” and Caramia, which is Italian for “my beloved.”
“It’s like a redemption,” she said of the prison program. 
“It’s redeeming the prisoners … and it’s redeeming grey-hounds.”
She is amazed by how new everything in her house seemed 
to her dogs when she first adopted them. Greyhounds 
look for a life after the track
 12 NEW SPECIES APPEAR 
IN FLORIDA EACH YEAR.
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Attention insects: You’re about to be 
put under the microscope.
The UF department of entomology 
and nematology was the recipient of a 
$5 million donation to fund its research, 
the university announced Wednesday. 
The donation came from Charles 
Steinmetz, a 71-year-old UF alumnus 
who made his fortune by building two pest control companies. One of those companies, All America Termite and Pest Control Inc., served as the national pest control service for Sears Roebuck and Co. and was eventually sold to that 
company in 1997.
“The gift will enable the department 
to hire top-notch, first-line professors,” 
Steinmetz said. “And then once you get the top professors, you get the top stu-dents.”
He said he felt like he wanted to give 
back to the department that gave him his start. 
“This was just something I felt was 
the right thing to do,” he said. 
On average, 12 new insects appear 
in Florida each year, said John Capin-
era, chairman of the entomology and 
nematology department.
That means the department always 
has new insects to look at, and the grant will help the depart-ment in their quest to study the state’s 
new inhabitants.
“It’s critical to the quality of life and 
the health of Florida citizens,” Capin-
era said. “And it’s an interesting chal-
lenge because it’s something new every month.”
In addition, insects can develop 
resistance to current pesticides, so re-search — even with insects that have been around for a while — is continual. 
Though donations to the depart-
ment come in regularly , Capinera said, it is rare to see one this large. 
Of the $5 million, $3 million will go 
toward professorships, $1 million will go toward all-purpose research money and $500,000 will go toward an entre-
preneurship fund.
The remaining $500,000 will be add-
ed to an existing $1 million scholarship 
fund named for Steinmetz and his wife, Lynn, according to Capinera. 
Pending approval from the Board of 
Trustees, the entomology and nematol-ogy building will be named for Stein-metz.
When asked about the prospect of 
having a building named after him, 
Steinmetz gave a chuckle.
“I actually go by the building when 
I come to football games in the fall,” he 
said. “I’ll be very pleased to drive by and see the building named for me.”UF gets $5 million to study bugs
SEE GREY, p AGE 8
LOCAL
UFAcademic sNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 12 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Caitlin O’Conner, 
  Briana Seymour, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
African Student Union Meeting
Today , 6:30 p.m. Matherly Room 18  
We will be having our first 
meeting of the spring semes-
ter. If you are looking to get 
involved or learn more about 
African culture, you don’t want to miss this meeting. 
Hands Down auditions
Sunday, 7 p.m.
O’Connell Center dance room
Interested in expressing yourself through dance?  Hands Down, a predominately hip-hop dance 
group, will be holding auditions 
for the spring semester. There will also be an optional dance 
clinic on Saturday from noon to 
4 p.m. in the Reitz Union Room 
B75. The clinic costs $5 and is 
not required, but will be ben-
eficial to anyone who plans on 
auditioning. We need guys to 
come out too.
Reading and Writing the Face: 
Portraiture from Realism to 
ModernismMonday, 2 p.m.
Dauer Hall 215
Kamilla Pawlikowska from 
the University of Kent at 
Canterbury, U.K., will com-pare representations of human 
faces in realist and modern-band that gets you free wings and beer, a tournament T-shirt, 
participation in the raffle, and access to the band. Get $5 off 
if you donate your gently used 
clothing at the door. All clothes 
will benefit St. Francis House 
and Goodwill. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to ebehrman@alligator.org. 
Please model your submissions 
after above events. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.ist texts focusing on English (Virginia Woolf), Russian 
(Lev Tolstoy) and Polish (Witold Gombrowicz and 
Bruno Schulz) writers. 
RISK Cinema Film Screening 
by Peter Hutton 
Tuesday , 7 p.m.  Harn Museum of Art 
Peter Hutton creates ma-
jestic cinematic portraits of 
cityscapes, landscapes and 
seascapes around the world. 
Produced without sound 
and almost exclusively in 
16 mm film, his images cap-
ture the subtle poetry and rhythms of nature and cul-
ture. Admission is $5 for the 
public and free for members.  
Poker Tournament
Jan. 28, 7 p.m.The Vault
Join Pledge 5 Foundation for 
its second annual “Taking 
It Off for Charity” Poker Tournament. Play for free or 
donate $20 for a VIP wrist-RAIN
69/43PARTLY
CLOUDY
68/52SUNNY
60/40PARTLY
CLOUDY
54/30RAIN
57/41TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
 Special to the Alligator
  Taylor McKnight poses in a photo booth from his family-
run business Phobooth. 
PERSON OF THE WEEK
  By KAT BEIN
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  Taylor McKnight has always been ambitious.
  In middle school, he was that kid ﬂ  ipping candy for prof-
it. He learned to “buy low, sell high” in high school while the economy boomed. He came to UF a marketing major, 
thinking he’d one day be a big shot businessman.
  “I wanted to work on Wall Street, make lots of money,” 
he said. “Then I kind of grew up during college. I realized, 
I don’t really care about money nearly as much as making stuff.”
  Now, the 27-year-old McKnight is dedicated to helping 
people connect and share the things they love. As a devel-oper for web-based enterprises like music discovery engine Hype Machine and the new music festival schedule genera-tor, Sched, he’s the kind of hip, young businessman who ﬁ  nds success catering to his own and thinks ofﬁ  ces are for suckers.
  His interest in web design sparked around 2002 when 
he started a personal blog about his life; mostly the boring stuff.
  “It was very LiveJournaly,” he said. “I mean, you read 
back on that stuff and it’s embarrassing.”
  But it taught him the basics of web design and, when he 
got to UF, it helped him get a job developing sites for the university.
  Soon after, McKnight quit his UF job for a position at 
gawker.com, a New York City-based blog focused on celeb-rities and the media industry.
  In 2007, McKnight changed jobs again and joined his 
friend Anthony Volodkin on his project Hype Machine, at hypem.com, to create a new way for music fans to get their ﬁ  x, and here was where McKnight really felt at home.
  “It’s a music discovery engine powered by real people,” 
he said. 
  Blogs apply to get on the site, are approved based on 
originality, and then HypeMachine compiles the tracks they post for users to ﬁ  nd and share.
  In 2008, McKnight was inspired to start another site, 
sched.org, as a way for him to manage his time at music festival South by Southwest. Sched is the only schedule that covers all ofﬁ  cial and unofﬁ  cial events of the week, of which there were about 8,000 last year.
  It was covered by Wired magazine on the festival’s ﬁ  rst 
day, and soon McKnight was getting propositioned by oth-er festivals willing to pay for the service.
  “I’ve had ideas where I’m like, ‘this is gonna be big,’” he 
said. “This was not one of those.”
  His newest endeavor is a photo booth rental company 
called Phobooth that he runs with his family. Their booths can be found all over the state and have been featured at the annual Grooveshark parties here in town.
  “Its kind of magical how, we built this silly box right, you 
go in there and take a picture, and you come out laughing,” he said. “It’s such an awesome thing because you don’t feel like you’re working.”
  That statement basically summarizes McKnight. He’s 
part of a collection of new minds approaching business in new ways.
  “Building things that help people share and discover is 
really awesome,” he said. “It makes me happy ... It’s like my little, narrow, niche scope of, ‘I wanna change the world.’ Well this is the one little way that maybe I can.”  UF grad is new breed of entrepreneur  By JOSHUA JURNOVOY
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  More than 200 people crowded 
into the Pugh Hall Ocora Thurs-
day night to hear Ayaan Hirsi Ali speak.
  Hirsi Ali, an author and world-
renowned critic of Islam,  spoke about her Muslim upbringing and her adult life. 
She also answered questions 
from the crowd about various subjects including the subjection of Muslim women. 
  Hirsi Ali said that her decision 
to stop practicing Islam was a 
result of a combination of many 
factors including the treatment of women in Islamic societies and punishments demanded by Is-
lamic scholars for homosexuality 
and adultery.  
She said she was prompted to 
leave her faith after 9/11, point-ing out how she and terrorists 
shared the same faith.
  Toward the end of her speech, Hirsi Ali said that she believes 
signiﬁ  cant progress can be made in the Islamic treatment of women 
if Islamic coun-
tries make more of an effort to assimilate into 
western society.  
  “She had 
been on our ra-
dar for a long time,” said Gail 
Sasnett, interim assistant director for public programs at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service.  “She is a person who has sacri-ﬁ  ced a great deal for her freedom and we felt like she would be a 
great person to tell her story.” 
  Some, such as Ismail ibn Ali, a 
UF senior and the president of Is-
lam on Campus, do not consider 
Hirsi Ali a credible source on Is-
lam.
  “She goes around the world 
criticizing Islam by saying what happened to her when she was 
young is a part of Islam,” ibn Ali 
said.  “But that is not at all a part of Islam.”
  Members of Islam on Cam-pus expressed their opposition to Hirsi Ali’s beliefs.
Several members of the group 
stood outside of Pugh Hall dur-
ing her speech while wearing 
signs that said, “I’m Muslim, and I’m free.”
  Douglas Marler, a Santa Fe 
student who attended the speech, said he agreed with Hirsi Ali’s decision to leave Islam. 
  “I do not think it would have 
been possible for her to ﬁ  ght for 
women’s rights like she has if she 
was still practicing Islam,” Marler said.  “It is very hard to be critical of a religion from the inside.”  
 Speaker shares struggles of her Muslim upbringing
Islam on Campus protested the speech
Ali
BY ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
Indiana Jones gets to keep his 
job.
So do Scarface, Luke Skywalk-
er and all the other characters 
whose job it is to guard the walls of Gator Dawgs, staring down at droves of new customers.
After a close call with closing 
up, the hot dog shop will get to keep its doors open after all.
Once word got out via Face-
book posts, word of mouth and news stories about the restau-rant’s imminent shutdown, the place became a madhouse. The tip jar overflowed, customers 
streamed out the door and own-
ers Otis and Candy Britt could hardly shovel their exotically topped hot dogs out the door fast 
enough.
“When we said we were clos-
ing, it just went nuts,” Candy 
Britt said.
When their landlord found 
out they were in trouble, he cut rent by $500 until August. That, combined with the influx of cus-tomers, will keep Gator Dawgs 
afloat, she said.When Student Body president 
Ashton Charles found out about 
the close, she was distraught. Gator Dawgs is her lunch place 
most days of the week. 
Her name is even on the menu 
— The Ashton Dog. It’s a vege-
tarian hot dog, topped with veg-
etarian chili and tater tots. 
“It’s been a part of my college 
career,” she said.
Since the rush of customers, 
Otis Britt quit the job he took 
cooking steaks at Cody’s Original Roadhouse. He had to give back 
money to the customers who had 
tried to buy the posters off the walls, the Pac-Man machine in the back of the dining room and 
the foosball table. 
Now, he’s back in his kitchen, 
serving the since-lengthened din-
ner line.
“If this many people love us 
and want us to stay, then we’re not going anywhere,” he said. 
He punches his fist in the air.“Take that, economy.”4, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Otis Britt, owner of Gator Dawgs, at 1023 W University Ave., poses with one of his hot dog creations. After 
a close call with closing down, he will keep his shop open for the foreseeable future.
LOCAL BUSINESSInflux of customers saves Gator Dawgs from closing
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Gainesville Commission-
ers gave Gainesville Re-
gional Airport the ability to add solar panels, gas stations and other additions, and ap-
proved a plan for a $665,000 
bike path at a meeting Thurs-day.
Now, private companies 
can rent airport space to do 
business, which will help 
fund the airport. Some op-tions include pet boarding, office space and post offices.
Commissioner Lauren Poe 
said he thinks this will open 
the door to economic oppor -
tunity for the airport.
“I think it’s excellent 
how this w o r k e d 
out,” he said.
Clay Sweger, a consul-
tant for the airport, said the 
airport is mainly looking to 
attract businesses. It doesn’t have plans to expand as well.The bike path the Com-
mission approved will be made in the bed of an old railroad along Northwest Sixth Street. 
It will stretch from South-
west Second Avenue to Northwest 10th Avenue, and it will fill the gap between two bike paths north and 
south of the planned path.
It will be funded through 
a Florida Department of 
Transportation grant. Con-
struction should begin over 
the summer.
n SGT. TODD KELLY WILL TAKE OVER 
FOR LT. STEVE MAYNARD.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
Next time you read a police story, you 
probably won’t be hearing much from Lt. 
Steve Maynard.
That’s because Sgt. Todd Kelly has taken 
over as Alachua County Sheriff’s Office pub-
lic information officer.
Maynard will be working in the patrol di-
vision as shift commander.
When Maynard took his new position, 
Sheriff Sadie Darnell began a search to find a replacement. She said she chose Kelly, out of eight to 10 sergeants and lieutenants in the agency, because of his range of jobs within the department.
Since he was hired by the sheriff’s office in 
1999, he said he has run the “whole gamut” 
of police work.
He started in the uniform patrol division 
with on-road patrol and then moved to the 
K-9 unit a year later, covering criminal inves-
tigations, robberies and homicides. 
He also served on the sheriff’s offices dive 
and rifle teams.
Kelly said he will use that experience in 
his new job.
“I have a broad perspective of the agency,” 
he said. “I kind of know what [other officers] are going through and what they’re experi-
encing because I’ve been there and done it.”City approves solar panels at 
Gainesville Regional Airport
Sheriff’s office hires new 
public information officerASSOCIATED PRESS
Immigration authorities repatriat-
ed 26 Haitians previously convicted 
of crimes on Thursday, plus another man who was acquitted in a 2007 ter -
ror plot, the first such deportations 
since the Obama administration 
halted them following the devastat-ing 2010 earthquake.
The deportations were immedi-
ately criticized by members of the Haitian-American community and immigration advocates who say the Haitians will face dire, inhumane conditions on their return.
“I think it’s outrageous and it’s in-
humane and very insensitive,” said Marleine Bastien, executive director of the Haitian Women of Miami. “We are outraged, really outraged.”
An attorney for Lyglenson Lem-
orin, who was acquitted in 2007 of a plot to destroy the Sears Tower in Chicago, confirmed the 35-year-old 
man was among those deported.
Officials have said Lemorin re-
mained a national security threat.
“Mr. Lemorin’s removal is a high 
water mark in the injustice inherent 
in our broken immigration system,” Charles H. Kuck, his attorney , said. “Deporting an innocent man should never be condoned.”
Kuck is appealing Lemorin’s de-
portation.
In a statement, Barbara Gonzalez, 
spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the removals were “consistent with ICE’s priority of removing aliens who pose 
a threat to public safety.”
Cheryl Little, executive director 
of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy 
Center, a nonprofit law firm, said the Haitian deportees were being sent back to a “death trap.”
“Why is it so urgent for the U.S. to 
deport Haitians when Haiti remains in ruin?” she said.
According to the firm, deportees 
who have a criminal history are rou-tinely held in inhumane jail condi-tions in Haiti. 
“Whether or not they have served 
a criminal sentence, no Haitian should be sent to a cholera-infested jail where they risk death,” the orga-
nization said in 
a statement.
Haiti is still 
r e c o v e r i n g 
from the magnitude 7.0 earthquake 
that killed an estimated 316,000 people and a subsequent cholera epi-demic that has killed thousands. The tiny Caribbean nation is also facing political instability following the dis-
puted Nov. 28 first-round presiden-
tial election.
Bastien said her organization 
found out about the deportations af-ter being contacted by relatives of the repatriated Haitians. 
“There’s a high chance that they 
will be detained in Haiti, and we are really concerned about their safety,” 
she said.US deports first Haitians 
since the earthquake 
Gainesville Cit yCommission“Take that, economy.”
Otis Britt
owner of Gator Dawgs
NewsInternationalFRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Hole in the Wall
UF senior Natalie Kaminsky paints a cinderblock for the 2011 Writing on the Wall Project. The proj -
ect allows participants to construct and tear down a wall with writings that represent the oppres -
sion of others. The wall will be built during People Awareness Week.
LIFESTYLE
By SHELBY GREENE
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Students looking for late-night Mexican food in Mid-
town on Tuesday nights may find themselves taking part in 
another Latin tradition.
In a collaboration with the Gator Salsa Club, 101 Cantina, 
located at 1632 W University Ave., has designated Tuesday 
nights as Salsa Nights. Attendees can enjoy food and drink 
specials while listening and dancing to Latin music.
According to Ryan Prodesky , marketing director at 101 
Cantina, the outside area of the venue will be cleared in or -
der to make room for dancing.  The club will offer a free salsa lesson from 10:30 p.m. to 11 p.m.
The event is open to everyone 18 and older, and there is 
no cost for admission before 10:30 p.m.  From 10:30 p.m. to 11:15 p.m. admission will be $3, and the cost will increase 
to $5 after that.
“First of all, 101 Cantina is Latin, so having a Latin-
themed night makes sense,” said Rob Castellucci, director of the club. “And it’s a wonderful venue.  There is nothing 
really like it in Midtown on Tuesday nights.”
He views Salsa Night as a way to expand the Latin com-
munity and increase the popularity of salsa dancing among Gainesville residents.
Prodesky said that attendance to the event has been 
good so far and the response has been positive.
101 Cantina employee Gabrielle Perez-Espejo said she 
thinks Salsa Night is a good way for students to experience a culture they may be unfamiliar with.
“It’s fun because you don’t have to be an experienced 
salsa dancer,” she said.  “You can be a beginner, or you can just come and watch.”Salsa Nights come to Midtownn IN TWO SEMESTERS, 
STUDENTS SAVED MORE THAN $500,000 FROM THE UF BOOKSTORE.
THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Contributing Writer
This academic year, the 
UF Bookstore is running 
a textbook rental program 
that saved students a total of more than half a million dol-lars in the summer and fall semesters.
The program, which has 
been installed at more than 2,000 schools around the na-tion and was in full swing by 
the fall at UF, has had a suc-
cessful start in Gainesville.
Bookstore director Lynne 
Vaughan estimated the sav-ings at about $514,000, with 
almost 13,000 books rented 
from the on-campus store over the two semesters.
“Most stores will continue 
to rent textbooks to students to stay competitive,” she said.
Students can save about 
half of the cover costs on 
books by renting and then 
returning their textbooks to the store by a specified date at the end of each semester.
Off-campus bookstores 
like the Florida Book Store and Orange and Blue Text-books have had rental pro-grams for a while.
Charles Schmidt, director 
of public relations for the Na-tional Association of College Stores, said that the average student can save from 45 to 65 percent on textbooks per year by using the program. 
“All of our stores are fo-
cused on reducing the cost of school materials for stu-dents,” he said. “The best 
thing about renting is that 
students can lock in savings up front without any risks that might be associated with selling back a book.”
Some UF students, such 
as Cody Johnson, were hap-py that the program was in-stalled. 
“I was able to rent text-
books for my non-major classes,” Johnson said. “I wasn’t going to need those books again, so I was re-
lieved to save some money 
last semester.” 
Other stu-
dents don’t con-sider renting an 
option. Amber Himmler, a 
UF sophomore, said she pre-fers buying her books.
“I rented an answer book 
last summer from an off-campus bookstore and I lost it,” Himmler said. “It ended up costing more in fees than 
buying it new so that dis-
couraged me from renting during fall semester.”
As for the future of the 
program, Vaughan and 
Schmidt both mentioned 
digital e-books coming into the picture.
“We feel that text rental is 
the bridge between purchas-ing physical textbooks and the future of digital e-book sales,” Vaughan said. “Textbook rental 
programs pay off for students
 
“You can be a beginner, or you can just 
come and watch.”
Gabrielle Perez-Espejo
101 Cantina EmployeeOnCampu sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Are you excited about the new Magic Kingdom section?Thursday’s question: Will you buy a Trenta-sized Starbucks coffee?
28% YES72% NO
95 TOTAL VOTESLiberals seek return of unfair doctrine
To no one’s surprise, Democrats called this week for 
reinstatement of the Fairness Doctrine in the wake of the Tucson massacre.
For those who don’t know, the Fairness Doctrine was a 
Federal Communications Commission regulation that was 
in place for nearly 40 years. 
It was designed to prevent one side of a controversial 
issue from being suppressed from the airwaves, but it was 
repealed as a free speech violation in 1987. 
Curiously, the only party that has championed the rein-
statement of the Fairness Doctrine over the last 24 years is that party which supposedly is in such favor of free expres-sion is the Democrats. 
The rise of conservative talk radio has led to multiple 
attempts by Democrat politicians to censor the airwaves of opposing political ideas.
The question that must be asked, then, is why? Why 
would anyone be in favor of such a blatant violation of First Amendment rights?
The answer is simple. Liberalism cannot survive in the 
arena of ideas.
There are two main reasons for this. First, liberalism is 
an emotive ideology. By nature, it relies more on feelings 
than intellect, and is thus unsuited for analysis by reason. 
Secondly, liberalism is simply unpopular. When faced with the stark reality of what the liberal agenda would mean for the average American, most people are appalled. That is why tax hikes and government takeovers are never part of a campaign platform but are instead attempted through ag-gressive and sneaky legislation.
The unpopularity of liberal ideology can be illustrated 
by the failure of liberal talk radio. The primary attempt that 
liberals have made in that market was a venture called “Air 
America” that lasted only six years. The reason that it failed was that no one listened to it. Not even hardcore liberals could stand to hear their ideas hashed out on the airwaves for three hours.When subjected to the careful 
analysis of conservative thinkers, liberal ideas fall apart, and conserva-tive talk radio has given such think-ers an outlet by which to expose tens 
of millions of listeners every day to 
the folly of such ideology. So they must be silenced.
The ultimate concession of defeat 
in the arena of ideas comes when one 
side, unable to defeat the other, forces the other side to shut up.
And because they understand the constant danger that 
talk radio puts them in, that is exactly what liberals want 
to do.
This brings us to where we are today. Liberals in the 
media promptly jumped to the assumption that the Tucson 
shooter was driven to his atrocity by listening to talk radio.
Never mind that he is a registered independent.Never mind that he hated George W. Bush.Never mind that a copy of “The Communist Manifesto” 
was found in his possession.
Never mind that no one has been able to find any evi-
dence that he even listened to the radio.
Regardless of the lack of evidence, liberals have decided 
that if they can plant the seed that talk radio leads to such acts of violence, public opinion can be swayed to the point where they can safely reinstate the Fairness Doctrine.
But it will never work.The bad news for the Democrats is that not only are they 
prohibited from shredding the First Amendment, but also that conservatives have discovered how to silence the op-
position without mangling anyone’s rights.
It’s called voting them out of office.
And we are doing exactly that.Bob Minchin is an electrical engineering senior. His column 
appears on Fridays.
Four-day weeks just aren’t conducive to getting work 
done. 
We’re already procrastinating on our assignments as 
though our bodies came back from the long weekend but 
our minds are still gone. 
In the spirit of getting back on the right track, we pres-
ent the we-swear-we’ll-get-cracking-on-that-project-un-
less-there’s-a-new-episode-of-our-favorite-show-on-Hulu 
edition of...
Darts & Laurels
Because it’s too early to fall off the wagon.Actually, it’s too early to do anything — or so we 
thought as we stumbled through campus before the birds 
found it acceptable to chirp. 
We’re night owls, so you might expect us to welcome 
any news from our favorite caffeine addiction-enabling, 
mermaid-friendly corporation. 
However, a stomach-exploding, palpitation-inducing 
nightmare of a cup of joe sounds nearly lethal, not to men-tion unappealing. 
With that wonderful image in mind, we’re launching a 
we’d-love-to-meet-the-company-executive-who-thought-
this-was-a-good-idea DART at Starbucks’ new Trenta 
coffee size. 
Who could stomach 31 ounces of java?
Gastronomic gurus have better ways to annihilate their 
bellies anyway. 
For coming to the rescue of one of our favorite local 
business owners, we’re tossing a people-should-pay-just-to-watch-Otis-Britt-concoct-those-crazy-meals LAUREL  
to Gator Dawgs customers. 
We’re still staying away from the Bull Dawg, though. 
It sounds brutal, much like Sunday’s gracious Golden Globes host. 
We’re always for some snark, especially when the tar -
get is used to being surrounded by flocks of yes-men. 
Some movie stars seem to grow like weeds in a world 
where everyone else gets cut down to size on a regular basis. 
For effectively roasting the Hollywood elite when they 
were expecting the usual unfunny sycophancy, we’re be-stowing a thanks-for-putting-a-stop-to-the-smoke-blow-ing-faster-than-an-anti-tobacco-campaign LAUREL upon 
Ricky Gervais. 
Now we hope the celebrities and talk shows will man 
up and stop whining about the performance like spoiled children.
Not to say we’re above throwing temper tantrums. In 
fact, we almost had an episode this week. 
Disney announced its official plans to revamp part of 
the Magic Kingdom on Wednesday. The women among us ate up the news about princess-themed areas and new rides. But our happiness came to an abrupt halt: The new 
section will begin opening in late 2012. The disappoint-
ment was palpable. 
Then we remembered we’re college students, not pre-
schoolers. 
Therefore, we have no choice but to chuck an only-you-
can-make-us-revert-to-our-seven-year-old-selves DART  
at Disney for proving our parents right about the inevita-
bility of nostalgia. 
Great, now we feel old in addition to lazy.Until next time, here’s wishing you a productive week-
end, Gators. 
As for us, don’t count on it.
Bob Minchin
letters@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Right misses point on teen pregnancy
Facts don’t faze the right in teen preg-
nancy debate.
In her letter “Political link to teen preg-
nancy unfounded,” Suzanne Santos argues 
absolutely nothing.
Not only did Santos acknowledge va-
lidity in Center for Disease Control and 
third-party studies relating to an alarm-
ingly large number of teen pregnancies in “red” states, but she further hurt her case by stating the unfounded argument that she “promises” if one were to look more 
closely at individual communities, the 
fault is not a lack of education about safe sex but rather the persons’ “race, age, in-come, educational attainment, home own-ership and employment status.”
So what Santos is saying is young blacks 
and Latinos with high school education are the ones to blame for teenage pregnancy? I guess it would be like the conservatives to blame blacks and immigrants, or as Santos would put it, “race.” 
One has to wonder what amount of 
evidence would be required to enlighten the far right that education is the key to all success. Simply put, when you educate 
people sufficiently, they are much less 
likely to commit grave mistakes in life. 
Then again, the trend of the political 
right ignoring facts is not a new phenome-non; after all, it was President Clinton who 
said, “I like that about the Republicans; the evidence does not faze them, they are not 
bothered at all by the facts.”
Khalil H. Quinan
Santa Fe student
n n n
 
Attack on cab drivers hurts free market
UF Student Senate President Ben Mey-
ers’ committee to curb free enterprise shows just how far today’s young leaders 
have gone in rejecting the American free-
market system.
The founding fathers established this 
great country on a system of free enter -
prise, and for over a century, this system produced dynamic economic growth. Today’s leaders, even supposed conser -
vatives like Meyers, are socialists to the 
core. 
Rather than taking personal respon-
sibility for their debauchery, they would 
rather attack hardworking cab drivers and 
the entrepreneurs who own cab compa-
nies. 
Meyers’ embrace of “fairness in com-
merce” will lead to the same big govern-ment takeovers and regulation we’ve seen 
come from Washington. 
I ask Mr. Meyers to abandon his social-
ist principles and embrace the free-market 
system that built American commerce.
Bill Roberts
Gainesville resident
I was a student at Virginia Tech when the worst school 
shooting in American history came to pass. I lost the girl I loved to a suicidal, angry individual.
Since then, bills have been introduced consistently in 
both the Virginia General Assembly and the Texas Legis-lature that would arm students. 
In the former state, the bills have failed repeatedly be-
cause the survivors of the Virginia Tech shooting are uni-formly opposed to what they see as a potentially danger -
ous legislative platitude. 
Yet lawmakers here in Texas continue to push for guns 
on campus, saying they want to “prevent another Virgin-
ia Tech,” despite the repudiation of that argument by the 
shooting survivors.
The gun lobby has long argued that mass shooters ex-
clusively target “gun-free zones” and, confusingly, that 
the presence of firearms can deter suicidal individuals. 
The firearms industry maintains this argument even in 
the face of the Jan. 8 shooting in Tucson that nearly took 
the life of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. 
Arizona allows the concealed carrying of firearms with-
out any background check or permit. Indeed, Giffords is herself the owner of a Glock handgun. 
Whether or not the attacker was suicidal, it appears 
that the threat of “defensive” gunfire had no deterrent ef-fect.
Shootings have more in common with ambushes than duels — and in an ambush, it doesn’t matter how the victims are armed. Two of my martial arts students died 
in the Virginia Tech shooting; nei-
ther even had a chance to stand up, and one never saw her 
killer enter the room. Guns would not have saved them if they didn’t have time to move. So, we must begin to 
ask ourselves: What do we do for those who can’t simply 
get strapped, such as 9-year-old Tucson victim Christina Green?
The gun lobby is using a bait-and-switch tactic. The 
National Rifle Association slowly picks away at popular 
gun control measures, obscures statistics from the public 
view under the guise of privacy and resists the closing of loopholes, arguing that requiring background checks at gun shows is too inconvenient. Then, when a major 
tragedy occurs, the NRA simply claims that gun control 
doesn’t work. Yet we see clear evidence that it does work in the U.K., where the homicide rate is one-fourth of that seen in America.
The NRA claims that mass shooters love gun-free 
zones. Mass shooters do not target gun-free zones be-cause they lack guns. 
They target gun-free zones because such places are 
considered sanctuaries. The shooter at my alma mater wanted to take away our feeling of safety in classrooms.
A rational look at the statistics shows that even count-ing Virginia Tech and Northern Illinois University, we remain safe in classrooms. According to a Department of Justice study, 93 percent of violent crimes against stu-dents happen off campus. Indeed, the University of Texas 
at Austin has experienced only three homicides in the last 
30 years. 
I cannot imagine improving that rate by adding guns, 
except perhaps in the hands of professional law enforce-ment officers.
Alas, the Legislature appears set to replace police offi-
cers with armed undergraduates. The budget shortfall all but guarantees doom for higher education, and our peace officers are already underpaid compared to their off-cam-
pus counterparts.
At the same time, two bills have been introduced 
which would effectively deputize and arm students with 
only about a day’s worth of training. Currently the law requires that such individuals be 21, but a recently filed 
court case in Lubbock is likely to change the minimum 
age to 18.
Only one in four Texans support the two bills, but the 
ratio in the Legislature seems to be around one in two.
While most of the few students who support the leg-
islation have good intentions, it is worth acknowledging that people make a lot of mistakes in college — and it is 
best to make these mistakes without a firearm in hand. 
John Woods is a student at the University of Texas.Armed students not the answer to college campus shootingsUWire
John Woods
UWireHer first greyhound, Kevin, 
was originally used for medi-
cal research in UF’s veterinary program and was in alien terri-tory when she initially brought 
him home. 
“He’d never seen a home 
before. He’d never seen a car -
pet or a ceiling fan or glass or 
a TV ,” she said. “It was like be-ing born into the world.”
The Gainesville chapter 
raises money to fund grey-hound education efforts and 
to provide medical services to 
dogs that have broken bones or other problems. 
Members also ensure that 
each dog is neutered and vac-cinated before it is adopted. 
To adopt a greyhound, Rice 
or another member visits the potential owner’s home to talk 
to him or her about the decision and ensure that it is the right 
choice for both the person and the dog. There is a $175 adop-tion fee to cover the neutering and vaccination costs of most dogs, although those from the 2nd Chance at Life program cost $350, Rice said.
When a dog is adopted, the 
owner receives a certificate to present at PetSmart on Archer Road that is redeemable for about $200 in coupons, Rice said. 
The money can be used to 
buy leashes, toys, dog beds and other items. 
The Gainesville chapter is 
planning several public ap-pearances in the hope of find-ing homes for its greyhounds. Members will hold a meet and greet at Tractor Supply Com-pany in Jonesville on Saturday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. where people can meet dogs that are up for adoption and learn more about their cause. 
They will also be at the 
Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Jan. 29 and Feb. 5 from 9:30 a.m. until the mid-afternoon to introduce local residents to the organization and the dogs they look after. Members will also 
be at a Starbucks at Town of Tioga on Feb. 19 from 10 a.m. 
to 4 p.m. 
Those interested in adopt-
ing a greyhound, becoming a 
foster family for the dogs or 
making a donation to the or -
ganization should contact Lori Rice at 352-514-2924 or Ann Marie Brown at 352-318-0156 for more information.8, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011
Special to the Alligator
Simon and Tiger, two greyhounds who belong to local mem -
bers of Gold Coast Greyhound Adoptions, relax outdoors.
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Banging on a Trash Can
Freshman Gabby Jackson drums on a garbage can on Turlington Plaza 
Thursday afternoon. The garbage can drums were part of an effort to spread 
gospel through different mediums such as music, step, dance and drama.
There is a $175 adoption fee to cover costs
GREY , from page 1ON CAMPUS CHURCH OFFICIALS CITED 
FINANCIAL REASONS.
HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
The Presbyterian and Disciples of Christ 
Student Center at the University of Florida 
began 2011 searching for a new direction. 
Since late December, the center, located 
at 1402 W. University Ave. next to Burrito Bros. Taco Co., has been temporarily closed because of financial and internal reasons.
The Rev. Alisun Donovan, mission coor -
dinator for new missional communities of St. Augustine, said even though the center is closed now, there are plans for the fu-ture. Rather than continue a model used for more than 50 years, she said the minis-try is moving forward.
She said it wasn’t financially viable that 
out of a university of more than 50,000 stu-dents, only 50 students used the Student 
Center facility on a daily basis. 
The process to assess whether or not it was feasible to keep the center open began 
in September. After a few months of de-bate, it was finalized in December with a vote. 
“The consensus was this was the right 
move,” Donovan said.
The Rev. Reginald Parsons agrees, but 
was hesitant to comment on any finances because churches are non-profit. 
He said that the bigger concern with the 
center is how to make it a suc-cessful and helpful resource 
for students.
He said the ministry is 
going in a new direction with how to run 
campus centers. He hopes that a new vi-
sionary shape will form after research with 
other campus ministries across the nation that he and his committee will conduct.
“Hopefully, the local ministries will pick 
up with students now,” he said. “And we’ll get back in as soon as possible.”
Parsons said he is thankful for all who 
have helped the ministry and the center, and that he’s very optimistic for the fu-
ture.Presbyterian student  
center closes for now
By JESSICA KEGU 
Alligator Contributing Writer
After nearly a two-year hiatus, the 
UF Safe Run program is up and run-
ning again as of this week and under 
new leadership. 
The Safe Run program is operated 
by students in the Naval Reserve Offi-cer Training Corps at UF and serves as 
a buddy system for students who want 
to go running at night on campus and still feel safe. 
Students can book a 
running partner for any time between 7 p.m. snd 10 p.m. To do so, students 
should call the hotline an hour before the time they would like to run Mon-
day through Thursday. 
The hotline is available after 5:45 
p.m.
According to Daniel Mckean, the 
assistant coordinator of Safe Run, the 
program really tries to focus on match-ing each student with somebody based on his or her skill level. 
“We even have a few runners who 
can run marathon-length distances and all of our runners know routes around campus,” Mckean said.
According to Mckean, the need for 
the program came from simply want-ing to keep students safe. 
Each safe runner will now have a 
cell phone on them at all times and also will be required to wear a reflec-
tive safety belt.
Anyone interested can call the Safe 
Run hotline at 352-557-2RUN.ROTC buddy 
program up 
and runningBy TAE YEON HONG
Alligator Contributing Writer
Most nights of the week, welding sparks 
and noise can be seen and heard from out-
side the sturdy , brown garage doors of Aerospace and Engineering C that sit just down the road from the stadium.
Inside the shop, a dozen or so students 
of Gator Motorsports have almost finished building a formula race car that they will take to an international student competi-tion at the Michigan International Speed-way in May . 
Ashley Averill, president of Gator Mo-
torsports, said they’re creating a small-scale formula car for the event.
The race car, for now an unfinished, 
open-wheel, single-seat vehicle called “61,” is the centerpiece of the shop.
It has a blue seat belt, colored wires 
protruding from its structured sides and a computer keyboard lying on its wheel, put there as a joke.
Big and small pieces of metal are piled 
on a long table behind the car. A transpar -
ent orange curtain hangs from one side of the shop to prevent eye damage from 
welding.
The car will be finished soon, and when 
it is, members of the team will take turns 
driving it at least two days a week until the competition. A nearby parking lot and a karting track are used for these practice sessions, Averill said. These things are all a part of everyday 
life at the shop, where student-built race cars are produced every year for the com-petition.
UF has placed in the top 10 three years 
in a row and is the only school in the world to have ever done so, Averill said.
“Some people think we’re kind of crazy 
because we’re throwing in 40-plus hours a week to an extracurricular, but it really is an awesome experience,” said Jeff Simons, team captain. “I really don’t think you re-ally get it anywhere else on campus. That is why we’re passionate for it.”
Averill agreed and gestured to a crowd-
ed trophy shelf above a banner of Gator 
Motorsports in the corner of the shop. 
“I see the abilities of our members and 
the time and commitment they have been 
putting in, and I think we’ll be a force to reckon with in the competition,” she said. “I want to bring back the trophy again.”Club building race car for competition
OnCampu s“I see the abilities of our mem -
bers and the time and commit -
ment they have been putting in, 
and I think we’ll be a force to 
reckon with in the competition,”
Ashley Averill
Gator Motorsports PresidentNewsLocalClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-8-
15-1
$675(Price Negotiable). CLEAN. Spacious. 
1 Bed/Bath. Minute walk from UF. Nice view. 
Quiet. New Kitchen Floors. Painted Nicely. 
Washer/Dryer. Pets allowed. Moving out of 
town. You can keep the furniture! If interest-
ed feel free to call or text (304)218-1628 or 
email stever0@ufl.edu    1-27-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-21 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR  � FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate Bathrooms
Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Full size W/D
Pet friendly
352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-2-10-30-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Immaculate small efficiency,quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets. 
1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.Avail 
Dec 27.$399/m 352-262-2871 Owner agent. 
1-24-11-14-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTEDNewly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-23BR/2BA HOUSE
Sunroom, garage, updated. 3103 NW 4th 
Terrace. $825/mo. Call Andrea Martin, Keller-Williams Realty 352-281-3131   1-21-11-10-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
 ●●●●●●●   NEAR  UF   ●●●●●●●
4 Apts  2/1 in College  Park area
(5/3 House) (4/3 House) (3/2 House)
available for August  Manny  352-317-4408
info & pic  gainesvillestudentrentals.com
1-31-11-16-2
Studio for rent. Bedroom, kitchen, full bath-
room, total privacy. 3 miles from Butler plaza 
near Tower Square. $475.00 per month 
includes Utilities, Cable TV, & Internet Call 
352-378-4626 or 352-262-4290    1-28-11-
15-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shady lot. 
From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No 
pets. Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 
13th St. 376-5887    1-24-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA very nice house, 
short bike, cent H/AC, dishwasher, disposal, 
W/D provided. Very private backyard with 
small garage. 924 NW 9th Ave. $1100/mo. 
Call 352-339-2342 Other houses available   
1-25-11-9-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 Other houses available   1-25-11-
9-2
2BR/1BA cabin, 20 acres. Fixer-upper. 
Horses/dogs welcome. 27802 SW 120th 
Lane, Newberry. $555/mo. Comes with 
horse. Long driveway. In Gothe State Forest. 
Call 330-329-8834    1-26-10-2
*5 BEDROOM HOUSE*
Walk to class. Right Across from The 
Swamp stadium. Available Aug 1st.
Wood Floors. Lots of parking. Please call 
John @ (561) 866-8234 for further info
1-21-6-2
3 bd 1 ba in NE Gville . Beautiful, restored 
hardwood floors, stainless steel appliances, 
W/D, front porch, back deck, fresh paint. Lg 
fenced property, Pets OK. Great location. 
Available now. 516-459-7654.    1-24-11-5-2
FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 11
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-25-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA house. 
Beautiful wd flrs, fireplace, good size rooms. 
W/D provided, fenced yard. Pet ok. CH/AC, 
DW, 830 NW 16th Ave. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342  gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-25-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-25-11-4-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com     1-25-11-4-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    2-17-11-20-2Really nice and spacious 1 BR. Walking 
distance from UF! Two blocks from Beaty 
Towers! Pets are welcome. $460/month. 
With parking & laundry services in the com-
plex. Call 352-6725479 to move in today!  
1-27-5-2
Walk to Midtown 1536 NW 3ave
$545 2br/1bth pet friendly
356-260-8925                 1-24-3-3
Ml needed to sublease 1 br in 2br/1b apt. 
Within walking distance of campus: 130 N. 
W. 9th Terr, apt. 206. $325. Jan. rent pd. 
Sublease from 2/11-7/11. Email gatorgal24@
gmail.com OR contact Mitchell Realty 352-
374-8579 for details.    1-25-11-4-3
Live in the CLOSEST apartment complex 
to UF! Price is all inclusive with: Hi-Speed 
Ethernet, Extended Cable Package, Water, 
Sewage, Garbage, Parking, Pest Control & 
Electric. Enjoy a private bedroom, spacious 
kitchen and living room.. Pool on-site! Free 
Parking! Townhouse layout. Rent is $504 
and available from Feb. 1 2011 to Aug. 9th 
2011. If interested email me at
ssuarez5@ufl.edu    1-27-11-5-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $425/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79291-31-10-42-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo 
at Countryside. $425/month. Short term 
lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 
bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   
1-28-11-16-4
Roommate wanted- Share nice clean NW 
area 3 Br, 2 bath single family home with two 
senior UF students- fenced back yard- wash-
er/ dryer-fireplace- $320 mo. & 1/3 utilities. 
Call Jon-321-537-5640 or 352-665-9547    
1-21-11-10-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-
pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! 
Call 850-974-0686   1-21-11-10-4Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-52BR/1.5BA newly renovated townhouse. 
6134 SW 8th Lane. You have to see it to 
appreciate it! Come see it and make an of-
fer. Call 352-281-7411 or 786-537-2963 and 
make an appointment   1-31-11-17-5
Rent to Buy. 2BR/2BA Capstone Quarters 
Condo Near Shands. Private porch, back-
yard, new carpet, paint and appliances. 
Community Pool, $650/mo. $54,900 Call 
352-378-4626   1-28-11-15-5
NOT A COMMUTER?
Live 2.5 miles from UF in an exquisite 
3BR/3BA Craftsman home. Double crown molding, coffered ceilings, leaded glass and French doors, gourmet kitchen (gran-
ite counters & stainless steel appliances), 
custom cabinets, spa baths & more. $320K. 
MLS #31880. Call Jackie Erney, Prudential Trend Realty, 352-328-1266.   1-21-11-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
WATERBED FOR SALE
Willing to deliver. Pictures available. Asking $150. MUST GO TODAY. 352-377-5560    1-26-5-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
12, ALLIGATOR  � FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
iPad Owners
www.CaptureNotes.com
is the BEST note taking app for the iPad
Created by Gators for Gators!
G8R Software, LLC - GO GATORS!
1-28-8-10
DO YOU EARN $800.00 IN A DAY? Your 
Own Local Candy Route 25 Machines and 
Candy All for $9995.00 All Major Credit 
Cards Accepted (877)915-8222 AINB02653   
1-21-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948    
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
What's black and white & read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
Between High School and College? Over 
18? Drop that entry level position. Earn what you're worth!!!. Travel w/Successful Young Business Group. Paid Training. Transportation, Lodging Provided. (877)646-5050.    1-21-1-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   2-8-10-30-14Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on 
cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. 
Compensation will be provided. If interested, 
call 336-406-3706 or email
uflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-28-14-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS 
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY 
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT 
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-4-11-20-14
CAREER POSITIONS
Stay in Gainesville. Great benefits and op-
portunities. Flexible hours.
● ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
● SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com
1-21-11-10-14
University Athletic Association - Accounting
Currently seeking flexible individual for part-
time (OPS) filing clerk. Varied duties includ -
ing data entry and filing. Experienced in Microsoft Excel & good organizational skills 
required. Minimum wage position averag -
ing 20 hour per week. Please fax resume to 
(352) 375-5182.     1-26-11-12-14
Colonial Life is expanding and looking to fill 
2 positions by January 17- an account man-
ager and sales manager. Submit resume to 
Meredith.Brewer@coloniallife.com or call 
(904)424-5697   1-21-1-14
ASAP! New Pay Increase! 34-46 cpm. 
Excellent Benefits. Need CDL-A & 3 mos re-
cent OTR. (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.
com   1-21-1-14OFFICE ASSISTANT Flexible, minimum 20 
weekday hours. Excellent Word, Excel, typ-
ing, internet skills. $7.25/hr. Indicate, major, 
graduating semester, available schedule.  
siva1950@yahoo.com   1-28-11-22-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Regional Opportunity 100% Owner Operator 
Reefer Company $1,000.00 SIGN ON 
BONUS! Home weekly. Call (800)237-8288 
or visit www.suncocarriers.com   1-21-1-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, 
Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 13
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
Local high school is seeking an Assistant 
JV Coach for its girls lacrosse team. Playing 
experience is required. Paid position from 
1/31 - 4/9. Contact Lynn at 352-378-5476 for 
more information.   1-21-11-8-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced Part time. 
Some weekends and holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
1-21-11-7-14
Computer tech, Skills to repair comps. Must 
have car. Be honest, available, dependable. 
Part time, make own hours. hr@blue4.com    
1-26-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
2-9-20-14HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-2-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, 
clean building, very minor mechanical, hours
1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]
12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   
11-20-11-5-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.
1-24-11-7-14
CONSTRUCTION SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
Full or part time student. Responsibilities - 
AutoCAD, SketchUp. Assist with planning 
hanger, putting green, guest house, swim-
ming pool, fountain construction and main-
tenance of multiple business and residence 
properties. Back up Shipping, yard main-
tenance. Apply at http://www.gleim.com.    
1-27-11-10-14MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm 
& 3:30-9:30pm, M-F & wkends. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    1-27-11-10-14
Looking for Masters of Accounting Student 
to conduct an Activity Based Cost Analysis. 
Two week project, pays $15/hr. Please send 
resume and cover letter to
wecare@chestnutfirm.com    1-21-11-5-14
Science Assessment Editor Needed - FT
Progress Testing seeks individual with out-
standing science, editorial, and organiza -
tional skills to join editorial team in maintain -
ing and expanding our test item banks for 
K-12 schools. Prior teaching exp pref. Send 
resume to lbresko@progresstesting.com   
1-21-11-4-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office. Experience 
preferred. Email resume to:snpohani@gmail.com          1-24-11-5-14
Looking to have fun while working hard and 
staying in shape? 1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing gals/guys to cover mainly Tu, We, or Th morning Truck Team shifts. Other shifts 
available. +21 age req'd for insurance. $8.50 
- $11/hr. Email cover letter and resume to 
cameron.lansdell@1800gotjunk.com1-24-11-5-14
AFTER SCHOOL SUPERVISOR for
2010-2011 school year, $9.00 hr+ to start. Apply 8505 NW 39th Ave. GNV    1-24-11-
5-14
EARN UP TO $300/DAY! Bartending!!! No 
experience necessary. We train you! 888-575-TIPS (8477)           1-25-11-5-14
Newborn Photographer
Work with babies and excited families! Our365 is seeking an energetic person with sales or photography experience to take pho-tos of newborns at North Florida Regional. Part-time. Apply online atwww.our365.com/opportunities.    1-21-11-2-14
MOBILE WAITERS NEEDED - Immediate 
Interviews. Make your own schedule, flex-ible hours, avg. $50-$60 per shift. Must be 21+ years, have own vehicle and cell phone. www.d-d-i.com or call 888-DDI-WORK ext. 1    1-21-11-2-14
SERVERS
Experienced & Friendly. Evenings & week-
ends. Apply in person, NAPOLATANOS - 606 NW 75th St.    1-25-11-4-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
NANNY NEEDED NOW  28hrs/wk; $10/hr 10 month old; MWF 8:30-12:30; T/TH 9-5 clean bkkg; exp + refs; long term commit; email resume, sched, pix, + hello to NOAH'S ARK NANNY:  gnv@nanoneone.com   1-28-11-6-14Drivers - FOOD TANKER DRIVERS 
NEEDED OTR positions available NOW! 
CDL- A w/ Tanker REQ'D. Outstanding pay & 
Benefits! Call a recruiter TODAY! (877)882-
6537 www.oakleytransport.com    1-21-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITY
WHY PAY MORE? 371 9696
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15
DIVORCE with or without Children $125.00. 
With FREE name change documents and 
marital settlement agreement. Fast and 
easy. Call us 24hrs./7days: (888)789-0198; 
www.CourtDivorceService.com     1-21-1-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. Wentworth. 1- 866-494-9115. Rated A+ by the Better Business Bureau.     1-21-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll- Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com     1-21-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA approved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769.     1-21-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (877)206-5165, www.Centura.us.com     1-21-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904     1-21-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research 
will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. 
Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Reading and 
Writing Center offers this workshop Monday - Thursday, January 24 – 28.  Verbal ses-sions on M&R, Math sessions on T&W; each session from 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.    1-24-3-20
Advertise in Over 100 Papers throughout Florida. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.florida-classifieds.com.     1-21-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Bring the family! Warm up with our Winter 
and Spring specials at Florida's Best Beach, New Smyrna Beach. See it all atwww.NSBFLA.com/Specials orCall (800)541-9621    1-21-1-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25
Sports
FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
Although it was his team’s lowest scoring output in 
his time as Florida’s coach, Billy Donovan still called 
Thursday’s game “one of the best wins I was a part of.”
The Gators (14-4, 3-1 Southeastern Conference) shot 
just 28.3 percent, but they still managed to escape with the 45-40 win at Auburn (7-11, 0-4 SEC). 
“It was unbelievable,” Donovan said. “I don’t know if 
I’ve ever been a part of a game, sitting on the sidelines as a player or a coach, and been a part of a team struggle to 
shoot the ball as badly as we did tonight.”
The Gators shot, by far, their lowest percentage of the 
season, as they connected on just 15 of 53 shots in the 
game. 
Auburn seemed content to let UF shoot from outside 
all night, and the Gators were more than willing. 
After dominating the paint for most of the season, 
Florida took 49 percent of its shots from beyond the arc Thursday . 
“That was a terrible shooting display by us,” junior 
Erving Walker said.
Said Donovan: “It was just a hard game to watch.”
After 38 minutes of play , the Gators were just 3 of 24 
from three and 13 of 50 from the field. 
But with 1:51 left and Florida down by three, Kenny 
Boynton finally connected from beyond the arc, tying the 
game. 
Up to that point, the sophomore had been just 1 of 8 
from outside. 
“In my head I was saying before I got the ball, ‘My 
team needs me,’” Boynton said. “I knew one would fall. All I need was one to fall. And one fell.”
Just 37 seconds later, Erving Walker took his turn 
from long distance, connecting on a three to give the Gators the lead and the eventual win. 
Walker, like Boynton, finished 2 of 9 from beyond the 
arc. As a team, the Gators finished just 5 of 26 from three-
point range. 
Although UF had a monstrous size advantage, it was 
forced to stick to the perimeter as Auburn dropped deep into a zone, doubling every pass that went into the post. 
“We just have to keep shooting with confidence,” 
Walker said. “The way they were sagging in the lane, it 
was tough to get the ball inside and penetrate, and I had good looks.”
POLL RESULTS ONLINE QUOTABLE alligatorSports Video Show
n Keep an eye on alligatorSports.org this 
weekend for the second episode of our 
weekly video show, featuring segments on men’s and women’s basketball and the gymnastics team.n We will have up-to-date cover-
age of all the Gators’ weekend 
games, meets and matches on our website, including stories on men’s and women’s hoops, gym -
nastics, swimming and tennis.Previous question:  
Who do you agree with in Wednesday’s Jump-ball debate regarding John Brantley’s future as Florida’s QB?
 Percent (Votes)
Berry 50% (21)
(2010 ruined Brantley)
Chiang 50% (21)
(Right man for the job)
42 TOTAL VOTESAP Photo
Florida’s Erving Walker hits the go-ahead three with 1:10 left to give 
the Gators a three-point lead over the Tigers at Auburn on Thursday.
UF tops AU despite miserable shooting
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators knew it was coming, but 
still, they couldn’t stop it. 
After containing the reigning South-
eastern Conference Player of the Year 
for much of the game, senior forward 
Victoria Dunlap provided the nail in 
the coffin in the final seconds and No. 
19 Kentucky outlasted Florida 59-58 
on Thursday in the O’Connell Center. 
UF (12-8, 2-4 SEC) led by 10 with 
5:29 remaining but allowed its oppo-
nent to overcome a double-digit defi-
cit for the second consecutive game with its poor ball handling down the 
stretch. 
“We’re just not 
finishing games out 
with the composure 
we should,” coach 
Amanda Butler said. “I don’t accept the 
excuse that we’re 
young or inexperi-
enced. We’re not anymore.”
Immediately after Florida extended 
its game-high lead to 10 points, Ken-
tucky (14-4, 3-2 SEC) rattled off a 13-1 
run and held a 57-55 lead with 44 sec-onds left to play. 
But the Gators continued to fight, 
and junior Deana Allen drilled a three-pointer with a hand in her face to give 
the lead back to Florida with just 25 
seconds remaining.  
After a Kentucky timeout and in-
bounds play, the ball quickly made its 
way into Dunlap’s hands. 
She drove the lane, an area where 
she experienced little success all eve-
ning, and drew a foul on center Azania Stewart. 
“It was just a small-tap foul, but I 
shouldn’t have even put her in that po-sition,” Stewart said. “I knew she was 
going to hit those (free throws).”
Both free shots fell with ease, and 
Kentucky escaped with the narrow 
one-point victory. Gators’ late 
collapse to Wildcats all 
too familiar
Say hello to the new smartest guys in the room
After the Jets game Sunday, “60 Min-
utes” did a profile on  multimillion-aire Billy Walters, who terrorizes 
Vegas sports books with scores of comput-ers, consultants and shills.  
Walters proves the exception to my rule 
that you can’t beat the bookie, but he is as common as an honest politician. He’s such an oddity that “60 Minutes” devoted an en-tire segment to him.
I don’t know Walters, but in my nine 
years of bookmaking and 50 years of gam-bling, I don’t know anyone who ever beat the house. Walters told in-
terviewer Lara Lo-gan that he has never had a losing year. Walters then told Lo-
gan that gamblers al-
ways gave him a fair shake, but “suits” on Wall Street ate his lunch. He said CEOs of Enron, Tyco and AIG fleeced him.
The same “philanthropists” responsible 
for derivative swindles, looted pensions and the housing bubble are the boys who run V egas now. When it comes to larceny , corporate CEOs make John Gotti look like the Easter Bunny . 
Walters insinuated casinos are no longer 
player-friendly. I agree.
Laying more than $110 to win $100 on 
football was once unheard of.  When one side was top-heavy with action, “wise guys” simply moved the spread. Now, it’s common to lay $115 or  $120 to win $100. 
Corporate larceny seeps from the sports 
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 15
SEE BILL, PAGE 15
Bill O’Connor
Confessions of a 
New York Bookie
sports@alligator.org
 “Watching my old team 
play and it’s giving me 
a headache I would of 
jumped off the odome if I 
stayed another year.”
Ray Shipman
former UF basketball 
player, on Twitter
Women's
Bask etballn GATORS MEN’S TEAM WILL ALSO 
FACE BAYLOR ON SUNDAY.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer  
The men’s tennis team will kick off its 
spring season today at 3 p.m. as it squares off 
against Furman at Linder Stadium. 
The matchup against Furman is considered 
more of a warmup for Sunday’s match against 
Baylor, coach Andy Jackson said in an inter -view with GatorZone TV .
Although Furman isn’t ranked or doesn’t 
have any ranked players, Jackson isn’t under -
estimating his opponent.
“There are two basic points. We’re better 
than Furman,” Jackson said. “But we certainly 
can figure out a way to lose to Furman.”
The Gators enter the spring ranked No. 9 
in the nation and are led by the No. 4 player in 
the country in senior Alexandre Lacroix.
Lacroix will be looking to rebound after 
he was upset by Georgia’s Wil Spencer in the 
Southeastern Conference Indoor Champion-ships last weekend.
Besides Lacroix, the 
Gators feature two other players ranked in the top 125 in talented sophomores Sek-ou Bangoura Jr. (No. 28) and Bob van Overbeek (No. 52).  
Bangoura and van Overbeek 
had strong fall seasons and 
will be counted on heavily 
this spring. 
Bangoura capped off his second semester 
as a Gator. winning in style at the Lakewood Ranch Intercollegiate Clay Court Classic in his hometown of Bradenton. Van Overbeek also won his first collegiate tournament champion-ship as he emerged victorious at the Univer -
sity of Texas Invitational in November.
The Gators’ newest player, freshman spring 
enrollee Spencer Newman, will not play Fri-day but could see action as soon as Sunday. 
Newman’s addition to an already-talented 
squad has been a boost on and off the court.
“It seems to me that the chemistry has been 
outstanding with his transition to the team,” Jackson said.FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
UF’s Azania Stewart, whose foul with 10 seconds left gave UK a chance to 
win, walks off the floor after Florida lost 59-58 to Kentucky on Thursday.“I think it’s a lack of discipline,” Stewart said of 
the Gators’ recent struggles at the end of the games.  
Against Georgia on Sunday, Florida allowed the 
Bulldogs to erase a 16-point second-half lead in an 
eventual UGA victory.
“We traded baskets with them and were able to 
pull away by 10 points, but back-to-back losses like 
this is terrible,” Stewart said, struggling to get the 
words out while fighting back tears. 
“We practice very hard, we work very hard, and 
I encourage the team to play with a lot of emotion,” 
Butler said. 
The loss is the third in a row, and fourth in the last 
five games, for Florida. This one was especially dif-ficult considering the Gators had the game in hand.  
Dunlap had trouble in the paint against aggres-
sive double teams, but she finished with a respect-able 12 points and eight rebounds. 
Half of her points came in the final five minutes 
during Kentucky’s surge, and Butler, who saw a sim-ilar defeat just days ago, said the team should have been prepared.
The team game planned to stop Dunlap, Butler 
said, and was not surprised when Kentucky went to her with the game on the line. 
“She did exactly what we expected her to do,” 
Butler said. “You’ve got to handle your business be-
fore it gets down to that last possession and there’s a 
judgment call of whether there’s a foul or not a foul. 
You can’t put yourself in that position, and that’s what we did.”
The loss spoiled a second consecutive standout 
game for Allen. After notching her first-career dou-ble-double in the loss at Georgia, Allen was the cata-lyst for the Gators again Thursday.
She led Florida with 13 points on 5-of-8 shooting 
from the floor in only 22 minutes. She had limited playing time after picking up her third foul with 10 minutes left.
Afterward, Allen, who said she blamed herself for 
the loss at Georgia, again pointed at things she could have done better to prevent defeat.
“I put this game on my shoulders,” Allen said. “If 
I were to knock down the free throw that I missed then we would have won the game.”W-HOOPS , from page 14
book in V egas, past high-percentage slots then 
slips into dealers’ shoes at blackjack tables.   
The larceny resides behind a single sen-
tence scribed across the soft felt: “Dealer must hit soft 17.” The rule doesn’t exist in the Carib-
bean — only Vegas.
That corporate hustle plows chips and per -
centages toward the casino. A dealer must hit 
on soft 17, an ace and a six, and stand on hard 17, a 10 and a seven. This kills card counters.  
Card counters bet the minimum until they 
get an advantageous deck, then they “send it in.” During short, favorable intervals, they maximize their bets. The soft-17 rule adds a 
0.20 percent edge to the house.
According to the Casino City Times’ Alan 
Krigman, if players use perfect strategy, the 
house advantage is 0.43 percent. Few people play perfect blackjack.  
Card counting once enabled the player to 
reverse this 0.43 percent house advantage. The new rule makes it tougher. 
The casino’s biggest edge is that, if both the 
player and the house bust, the house still wins. I’ve heard players say casinos like when you win because it’s good for advertising — “Tell 
‘em where you got it.” That shit belongs under 
the south end of a cow.  
I’ve been thrown out of two casinos for 
card counting, and I was winning less than $1,000 both times.
CEOs get paid for the bottom line. Wise 
guys who ran casinos in the old days threw the dice occasionally . Corporations don’t.    
In 1988, my first year of bookmaking, Wash-
ington played Denver in the Super Bowl.  
I flew to Vegas for the NFL playoffs. I want-
ed to bet $15,000 on the winner of the NFC championship against the winner of the AFC game. I thought, incorrectly , that the opening line would change. I wanted to buy the “early price” and sell the higher line to my custom-ers. In other words, I wanted to cover my ass.
Immediately after Denver beat Cleveland, 
“Circus Circus” posted Denver as a three-point favorite over Washington.
Seconds after the line was posted, I said, “I 
want Washington plus 3 for $15,000.”
The clerk laughed and said, “Wait, $15,000?  
I’ll give you two dimes.”
I said, “Are you kidding? This is V egas. 
You won’t take $15,000 on the Super Bowl?”
The clerk responded, “You want the $2,000 
or not?” I said, “Yeah.” 
As he took my money , the slip sped through 
a computer that noted my wager throughout every casino in Vegas. He handed me my re-ceipt. I turned to walk away . He yelled, “Wait a minute. You want an-
other $2,000 at plus-3?” I said, again, “Yeah.”
Same routine. Seconds later he said, “Now, 
the line’s plus-2½.” 
I hopped on a plane for this shit, I thought. 
I came here to bet 15 large on a future.
In New York, I could bet 10 dimes with 
four bookies without taking a nickel out of my 
pocket. Shit, even a five- and 10-cent operation 
like mine would take $3,000 a game. Yet Vegas won’t take more than two dimes on a future? 
Millions of dollars won’t change a Super 
Bowl line on game day , yet $4,000 can change a line seconds after it’s posted.  
Corporations don’t get screwed. These MIT 
boys don’t gamble. If you want to beat Vegas, take Steve Wynn’s advice: buy a casino.
If you do get jammed up gambling, CEOs 
let you bail out using credit cards. What’s the going rate these days, 28 percent?BILL , from page 14Despite their team’s atrocious 
shooting, Donovan and Boynton 
were adamant that the team’s ball movement and shot selection were solid. 
Boynton said that prior to the 
game the Gators weren’t expecting Auburn to play as much zone as it did, but once the Tigers chose to de-fend Florida in that manner, UF had 
no other option. 
“That was the game plan after 
they were settling like that,” Boyn-
ton said. “They just were leaving us open, so we had no choice. Coach 
wasn’t mad at all. He just told us to 
keep shooting.”
Said Donovan: “I felt like our ball 
movement was pretty good, and we 
had some pretty decent looks.”
Donovan added that his team 
took a few ill-advised shots, and he 
would have to review the film to 
evaluate the offense more precisely . 
Donovan was pleased with his 
team’s defense, which held Auburn 
to its lowest point total in the shot clock era. 
“Our defense won the game,” 
Boynton said. “If we didn’t play good defense tonight and they shot a high percentage, then we lose this 
game.”Gators credit 
defense for redeeming poor shooting
HOOPS , from page 14Jackson
Florida to start spring with tune-up match vs. Furman
Dunlap overcomes 
early struggles inside16, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 2011
n UF WILL TRAVEL TO NO. 6 AUBURN TODAY.
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
Practice is over. It’s 16 hours until the Gators jump on 
a bus for their dual meet in Auburn, Ala., and the pool is 
empty except for one swimmer still taking in extra time to 
perfect his backstroke start.
Marco Loughran grips the two starting block handles 
on lane six then pulls himself up until only his feet re-main submerged. A short pause later, and he’s off. But he 
doesn’t get far. 
Halfway through his first leg, he hears it.
“No, no, no!”Coach Gregg Troy is back where Loughran started, 
telling him he still has it all wrong.
“I thought I got it right, but then coach Troy is trying to 
tweak it a little bit,” Loughran said. “I’ll take what he has to say and put it in my own way. I’m just trying to make it look better.”Loughran, a sophomore, said he has spent the past 
three years in pursuit of a perfect start. It’s a frustrating, yet necessary, search. A good start plays a major role in 
any race, but in the backstroke events, its importance is 
magnified even further.
Of the four swimming strokes, the backstroke is 
unique. No others begin in the water 
and call for swimmers to propel them-
selves backward through the pool. It’s Loughran’s specialty, and he knows his technique must improve if he wants to one-up his performance from last year’s 
meet against No. 6 Auburn.
Good starts and better turns are areas Troy said the 
team has emphasized in training all week. The No. 5 Gators struggled at both during the SMU Classic last 
week, and it cost them valuable time in the pool.
“Everything we’re doing is directed toward the end,” 
Troy said. “We’re not happy with where we are at the mo-
ment, but we’re seeing improvement each week.”
Today at 4 p.m. in the Tigers’ home pool, Florida will 
need to see that improvement as the Gators face an Au-burn team that upset top-ranked and defending national 
champion Texas a week ago.
While Loughran is focused on helping the Gators pull 
their own upset this week, he was also putting in extra 
time in the pool to continue a friendly rivalry with  fellow 
England national team member Adam Brown. Loughran 
said Brown, with whom he lived in Australia for three years while they were high school teammates, remains one of his best friends.
Loughran and the Gators upset the then-No. 5 Tigers 
at the O’Connell Center Natatorium on Senior Day last year. Although Brown dominated the meet by winning two individual and two relay races, Auburn still came up short in a 162-138 Gators victory.
This time around, it’s Florida’s turn to go on the road 
and face a hostile Tigers crowd during their Senior Day meet. Brown is a senior, and Loughran said the friends have made sure to maintain in contact the past couple of weeks.
“We keep each other up to date, like how we’re doing 
in training and stuff, and from what I’m hearing it’s going to be a great meet,” Loughran said.Loughran tinkers with stroke, ready to meet rival friendUF GYMNASTICS
SwimmingBy ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
 
Florida has dominated on its home turf. 
Now, it’s time to see what the Gators can ac-
complish on another team’s mats. 
No. 1 UF will face No. 24 LSU in the 
team’s first away meet of the season tonight 
at 8 in Baton Rouge, La.
The Gators have already proven them-
selves successful in front of their home crowd, posting the nation’s top two final score totals in the first two competitions of the season.
But tonight’s meet will be the first time the 
freshman gymnasts will experience an away meet with the Gators. Freshman Mackenzie Caquatto said the older gymnasts have told her to expect something different. 
Senior Maranda Smith said her main ad-vice for Caquatto and the other freshmen 
will be to aviod getting distracted by the 
hostile crowd.
“Focus on the team and to pretend that 
their fans are cheering for us,” Smith said. “When we hear them getting excited and 
that sort of thing, let that fuel us to perform 
great and to not focus on anything but the routines they have to do.”
In addition to providng some experience 
on the road, the meet will also present an opportunity for the gymnasts who rested in last week’s Southeastern Conference opener against Kentucky to return to competition again.
After skipping out on the balance beam 
due to an injured toe, freshman all-arounder Alaina Johnson said she is ready to get back to competing in four events tonight.
“It’s feeling a lot better,” Johnson said. “Hopefully, I’ll be able to do all four events 
at LSU.” 
Johnson is fresh off her second SEC Fresh-
man Gymnast of the Week award, but coach 
Rhonda Faehn said the coaches need to be careful with the new gymnast. 
“We as a coaching staff 
have to be very smart with her,” Faehn said. “She has a very fragile body, so we 
have to make sure we rest 
her and pace her so that 
she’s still performing at her top at the end of the season.” 
The staff also took Smith off the floor 
exercise last week to save her for tonight’s meet against the Tigers. 
“I’m a little more rested than I would’ve 
been if I had competed last week,” Smith said. “I’m hoping that my legs are fresh and 
ready to do a great floor routine and vault 
this weekend.”
Although the lineups are going to expe-
rience the return of some rested gymnasts, there will be one noticeable absence on the 
beam roster.
Sophomore Liz Green, who tied for first 
place in beam last week, will not be compet-
ing tonight. Green has a stress fracture and 
needs to rest her back, Faehn said. Because 
of the injury, the worst-case scenario is that Green will be out for four to five weeks. 
“We’re fortunate that we have depth so 
that we’ll be able to be OK,” she said. “It’s 
a great time to get it under way now, on the 
road, and get it started so that when we go on the road with Georgia and Utah and oth-er competitions that we’ll have more consis -
tency established with a different lineup.” Gators take top-ranked squad on road to face Tigers
Faehn
