VOLUME 106 ISSUE 27 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
  CLARE LENNON, EMILY MORROW 
and MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Staff Writers
 
  When Student Government 
Supervisor of Elections Toni 
Megna announced the results of the fall Student Senate elec-tions, members of the Unite Party jumped up for their usual cheers and whistles. 
  Unite Party candidates 
claimed 46 of the 50 seats up for election this cycle. Students Party candidates won three seats, and one independent candidate was elected. 
  About 87 percent of the 7,229 
students who voted on the refer-endum to repeal the 15 percent tuition hike recently imposed by the administration. A referendum question gauges student opinion but takes no actual action. 
  This year, 8,271 ballots were cast, compared to the 7,526 last year.
  The results may not even mat-
ter, though. Errors with the new electronic voting system might have caused students to acciden-
tally vote in the wrong district. When student addresses were loaded into the computer sys-tem, many of the addresses were 
students’ per-
manent home addresses instead of their Gainesville addresses.
  Records indicate 535 students 
voted in District E, which is the district for commuter students. Of those, 501 voted for Unite Par-ty candidate Brett Rowland. That district includes all ZIP codes except for those speciﬁ  ed in Dis-
Gator Chomp ranked as a top college football tradition
Ohio State University took the top spot, pg 3.  
The drinking age should be lowered to 18
People should learn the consequences early, pg 6. 92/69 Professor’s documentary won 21 awards
The photojournalism teacher used the ﬁ  lm to 
document his struggle with cancer, pg. 4. 
Flip to today’s 
special “Gators vs. 
Tide” Avenue to see 
what UF alumnus is 
opening for Big Sean 
tonight. See Story, 
Page 8. 
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17� COLLECTIONS MAY BE MOVED 
INTO LIBRARY WEST.
  JESSICA OLIVER
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Traci Reynolds puts up a ﬁ  ght.  The 23-year-old speech language pa-
thology master’s student at UF created a petition, which has collected more than 1,300 signatures as of Wednesday , to prevent the Architecture and Fine Arts Library and the Music Library from mov-ing their collections to Library West.
  “I saw that everyone had an opinion 
and seemed to be talking openly about what could or should be done, but none were really doing anything about it,” she said.  Overcrowding and high trafﬁ  c are is-
sues that would only be heightened by the arrival of other collections, Reynolds said in the petition.
  If administration decides to move the 
collections, the students and faculties of the College of Design, Construction and Planning and College of Fine Arts would no longer have the luxury of the collec-tions being in their own buildings.
  However, moving the collections 
would make them more accessible, con-sidering that Library West is open longer than the other libraries.
  Christopher Silver, dean of the Col-
lege of Design, Construction and Plan-ning, has said his college would assist the ﬁ  ne arts programs in ﬁ  nding space-saving innovations similar to its own.  Student petition protests 
moving of library collectionsON CAMPUS
  CLARE LENNON
 Alligator Writer
 
  The push for big-name Gator Growl enter-
tainers continues with ofﬁ  cials’ announcement 
that two members of southern rock band Sister Hazel will host and sing the national anthem for the homecoming pep rally . 
  Lead singer Ken Block and guitarist Drew 
Copeland, both Gainesville natives, will join comedian Joel McHale and the Goo Goo Dolls for the pep rally at 7 p.m. Nov . 4 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
  Student Government Productions is paying 
Block and Copeland $5,000. 
  Sister Hazel is best known for its 1997 single 
“All for You,” which was in the top 20 songs on Billboard’s Hot 100 list. The band’s 2009 album, “Release,” reached No. 37 on the Billboard 200 list.
  Gator Growl producer Aaron Heger said the UF Gospel Choir has performed for free in the past. He said bringing in a new national anthem act is part of an effort to change  Gator Growl and bring in a bigger crowd. Fireworks will be brought back for the ﬁ  rst time in four years, he said, and live skits will return to the show. In addition, the stage will be set up at the student section of the stadium, and the audi-ence will sit on the alumni side. The stage pre-viously has been set up at the north end zone.
  Heger promised an entertaining show.  “[Students should] expect a very high-ener-
gy show from the moment they sit in their seats to the second they leave the stadium,” he said.  Gator Growl adds Sister Hazel 
to the entertainment roster
“[Students should] expect a very 
high-energy show from the moment 
they sit in their seats to the second 
they leave the stadium.”
Aaron Heger
Gator Growl producer Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff 
  Unite Party members celebrate an election victory Thursday morning. The Unite Party won 46 of 50 
contested seats. The Students Party took three seats and an independent  student won one seat. 
UP IN THE AIR
Unite sweeps election 
despite system errors
SEE ELECTIONS, PAGE 5Meyers
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 27 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Adrianna Paidas, Lily Parkinson, 
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,  
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus
 C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
Rosh Hashana Services
Today, 10 a.m. and 10:30 a.m.
UF HillelJoin UF Hillel for High Holiday services. Conservative and Traditional services will start at 10 a.m., and Reform servic-es will begin at 10:30 a.m. 
First Year Florida Peer Leader 
Info SessionToday, 4:05 p.m. Reitz Union, Room 286First Year Florida is now accepting applications for Peer Leader positions. Peer Leaders are an influential group of student leaders who co- teach FYF and assist fresh-men with the opportunity to learn about campus resourc-es, diversity and involvement opportunities. Applications are due to New Student and Family Programs by 4:30 p.m. on Oct. 10. To learn more, at-tend tonight’s info session, visit bit.ly/teachfyf, or con-tact Alison Spannaus at ali-
sons@dso.ufl.edu. ClarifiC ation
The Alligator needs to clarify 
a fact in an article in Wednes-day’s paper about pink trash carts promoting awareness of breast cancer.
The story should have said 
the pink trash carts are offered to residents by the city after they make a $50 donation to the American Cancer Society. They are not being sold to raise funds. Rosh Hashana Services
Friday, 10 a.m. and 7 p.m.  
UF Hillel
UF Hillel will host two sec-ond-day Rosh Hashana ser -
vices at 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the pa-per. Press releases will not appear in the paper.PARTLY
CLOUDY
92/62THUNDER
STORMS
92/69SUNNY
82/56SUNNY
81/57SUNNY
83/61MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
JENSEN WERLEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gators have yet another reason 
to be proud.
UF’s Gator Chomp was recent-
ly recognized by collegemagazine.
com as one of the top 10 college football traditions. 
Ranked at No. 10, writer 
Danny Golden chose the Gator Chomp due to its intimidation fac-tor when coupled with the Florida band playing the “Jaws” theme.
Other traditions that made the 
list were the University of Geor -
gia’s bulldog, Uga; the Univer -
sity of Iowa’s pink locker room; the Auburn University’s eagle released to fly over the stadium, dubbed the “War Eagle”; and the Army’s/Navy’s march onto the field. The No. 1 spot went to the dotting of the “I” by the sousa-phone player in Ohio State Uni-versity’s band.
The Gator Chomp is not only 
used in the stadium and UF’s campus, but it is also used by people all over the world to show that a person identifies himself or herself as a Gator fan.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
was pleased to make the rank-ings.
“What’s not to like about that?” 
he said. “It’s a nice recognition of the kind of enthusiasm Gator fans have.”Gator Chomp ranked 
No. 10 on top college football traditions listsafety
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Recent data indicates there is an increase in the 
number of UF students transported to the hospital for 
alcohol-related emergencies.
This semester, 13 students have been transported 
for alcohol-related emergencies so far, according to Maureen Miller, the coordinator for alcohol and other drug prevention at GatorWell Health Promotion Ser -
vices. Last year, only about nine students had been admitted during the fall semester.
Maj. Brad Barber, UPD  public information officer,  
said the officials still don’t know for sure what factors are contributing to this trend. 
“How the increase is related to the Medical Am-
nesty Policy or other contributing factors has yet to be determined,” he said.
The Medical Amnesty Policy waives disciplinary 
action under certain conditions to ensure that stu-dents call medical support during alcohol, drug or other health emergencies. 
Of the 13 students transported to the hospital, five 
qualified for medical amnesty , according to Miller. 
The policy was officially instituted at the univer -sity in April but has been in practice unofficially for some time. 
“Safety is the top priority for the university ,” Miller 
said. “There were several close situations of students not getting the help they needed.” 
At UF the protocol applies only to the UF Student 
Code of Conduct, Housing & Residence Education’s Community Standards and Greek Life policies. Police may enforce laws within their jurisdictions under the state and federal law.
Students considered by the Dean of Students Of-
fice as “under the policy” are required to meet with counselors from GatorWell for a one-hour education-al seminar, Miller said. 
History sophomore Charlie Vilmar, 19, is aware 
of the policy but wouldn’t call the police unless abso-lutely necessary . 
“I mean, if it’s a dire situation I would go to the 
hospital,” Vilmar said. “But otherwise, I keep track of my friends, and they keep track of themselves.”
With the upcoming football game on Saturday 
against Alabama, UPD said this increased trend of alcohol-related transports will not affect its policy. 
“Gameday rules have not changed,” Barber said. 
“We remain consistently focused on safety and secu-rity operations at each game.”Semester shows upward trend 
in alcohol-related emergencies EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
At the age of 48, John Kaplan 
was a Pulitzer-Prize winning pho-
tojournalist, a father of two and a journalism professor at UF. At the same age, he became a cancer pa-tient. 
“That word, ‘cancer,’ can cut 
through you like a knife,” he said.
Shortly after being diagnosed in 
August 2008 with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a potentially deadly blood disease, Kaplan found an outlet for his pain, fears and hopes through his camera lens. Through photos and videos he took of him-self, Kaplan documented his battle with cancer. Viewers of Kaplan’s feature-length film, “Not As I Pic-tured,” are privy to emotionally charged scenes, from his hair fall-ing out in the shower and his pain-ful bone marrow transplant to his wife’s expression when his doctor told him he was in complete re-mission in 2008. 
The documentary is meant to 
inspire and give people hope, Ka-plan said, by showing that many cancers are not the death sentenc-es they once were but rather are treatable, and beatable, illnesses.
According to the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, the number of cancer survivors in the United States has increased from 3 million in 1971 to 11.7 mil-lion in the most recent count.
“That may be the small nugget 
of courage [cancer patients] need to fight through the process,” he said.
Kaplan’s uplifting film made 
its television debut in Gainesville last March. It has won 21 awards, including two CINE Golden Ea-gle Awards and several awards for Best Documentary. Now, six months later, the film’s success continues to grow, as does the number of lives it has touched.
Kaplan has organized 450 
broadcasts of the film through PBS affiliates, reaching about 70 mil-lion homes.
In an effort to “pay it forward,” 
Kaplan is giving away 10,000 free copies of the DVD and its accompa-nying guide to coping with cancer for anyone who has been touched by cancer — a disease that affects one in three Americans.
As of Wednesday, Kaplan said 
he has given away about 4,600 cop-ies to cancer patients, their friends and families, caregivers and medi-cal professionals. 
The documentary is also being 
used as a teaching tool. 
After founding partnerships 
with organizations like the Ameri-can Cancer Society and the Ameri-can Society of Clinical Oncology, the film is being shown to medi-cal professionals across the United States to stress the important con-cept of humanism in medicine — the idea that doctors should treat patients not just as charts and di-agnoses but as individuals with feelings, hopes and fears, Kaplan said.
He is also using the film and its 
campaign as a case study in his So-cial Media and Social Responsibil-ity course at UF, a class that brings together writers, photographers, marketing and public relations students to create media cam-paigns to raise public awareness about issues like Type 1 diabetes.
Kaplan said his students and 
colleagues at UF played some of the largest roles in his healing pro-cess.
His doctors told him it was im-
portant to continue doing what he loved through his treatment. For Kaplan, that was teaching.
Days after his diagnosis, Ka-
plan stood in front of his interna-tional journalism class on the first day of school and told them that he had cancer. But he was going to beat it, he said, and he would be there every day.
“It was important for me to 
know that I could be there as a teacher even though my body was on this rough roller coaster ride,” he said. “Being a professor here is the best job I’ve had by far.”
As a professor, Kaplan tells 
his journalism students to stay away from clichés. Cancer stories, he used to say as a Pulitzer Prize judge, are always clichés. 
“But when you get cancer, you 
don’t feel like a cliché,” he said. “You just want to beat it.”
Kaplan said he used to hope 
and pray every day that he would be able to end his documentary with a cliché happy ending — a shot of him holding his son in the air, saying the mantra that got him through cancer: Every day is a blessing. Every day is a gift.
Three years later, thousands 
of Americans have watched the credits roll after that exact scene, and Kaplan is living happily ever after.
To sign up for a free copy of the 
DVD, visit NotAsIPictured.org and click on the “Get Film/Shop” link.4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
Courtesy to the Alligator
On the first day of his international journalism class at UF, Kaplan tips his cap to his students after ex-
plaining he had been diagnosed with cancer. Despite six months of chemotherapy treatments, he never missed a class but was not permitted by his doctors to fly with his Florida FlyIns students to Guatemala.
Photojournalism professor uses film to depict struggle with cancerAgAinst the odds THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 5
Elections Commission will review complaints of technical errors
tricts A, B, C and D. Last fall, only 65 students voted in District 
E, according to the SG website.
  Megna said she didn’t think the numbers reﬂ  ect problems 
in the system.
  “We had no technical errors,” Megna said.Gillian Leytham, minority party leader of the Students 
Party, said the results don’t accurately represent the will of the students.
  “There is an epic failure of the system,” she said.
This is SG’s ﬁ  rst time using electronic voting.
  Jonathan Ossip, a member of the Students Party and for-mer student senator, also said the polls didn’t all open at 8 a.m. Tuesday, which he said suppressed voters. Ossip said he didn’t hear about any problems on Wednesday.
  Senate President Micah Lewis proposed the switch from 
paper to electronic voting during the summer. He said it would reduce elections costs and be more secure than paper voting.
  In the spring elections, three students voted multiple times 
on paper ballots at different polls across campus to demon-strate the ﬂ  aws in the system.
  For this election cycle, the Students Party scheduled an 
emergency hearing with the UF Supreme Court Tuesday eve-ning to look into invalidating Tuesday’s results and resched-uling elections. Complaints usually go to the Elections Com-mission ﬁ  rst, but the Students Party members bypassed that because they qualiﬁ  ed the situation as an emergency.
  However, Supreme Justice Matt Michel and three Associ-
ate Justices decided not to hold an emergency meeting. State law requires public meeting information be posted 24 hours before the meeting itself, and Michel said the UF Supreme Court was uncomfortable trying to interpret whether they could make an exception.
  Leytham ﬁ  led complaints with the supervisor of elections 
and with the Elections Commission. Megna said she knew of four complaints ﬁ  led by midnight Wednesday.
  But all of this didn’t put a damper on the Unite Party’s 
celebration.
  Unite Party spokeswoman Christina Bonarrigo said words 
couldn’t describe her party’s excitement following the re-sults.
“All our hard work paid off,” she said. “Come next Tues-
day we’ll be off to a great start.”
The Unite Party platform emphasized establishing a 24-
hour library, increasing scooter parking on campus, adding bottle-ﬁ  lling water fountains, expanding SNAP and weekend bus availability and placing hand sanitizer dispensers in resi-dence halls.
  Although the party only won the minority, Students Party 
director of communications Carly Wilson said the results are still an improvement from prior cycles.
Students Party candidates campaigned on eliminating cor-
ruption in SG, ﬁ  ghting a 15 percent tuition increase, and creat-ing bus stops that include GPS monitors to track the buses.     
After the Elections Commission meets, if one of the par-
ties chooses to appeal the ruling on the validity of the results to the Supreme Court, the court can make a separate ruling. Michel said the Supreme Court has ﬁ  nal jurisdiction.
  Associate Justice Tim Mason said it doesn’t matter whether 
the Student Senate validates the results at Tuesday’s meeting because the Supreme Court’s decision would override it.
Student Body President Ben Meyers, of the Unite Party, 
said he thinks the Students Party’s complaint is “undemo-cratic.”
“I absolutely think the results will be upheld in the Su-
preme Court because it values democracy,” he said. ELECTION , from page 1
 Matthew Riva / Alligator Staff    
  Michael Morales, a political science junior, reads the Student Government election results with fellow Students Party 
member 20-year-old biology junior Aimee Dolan Thursday morning. The Students Party won three of 50 contested seats. 
“We had no technical errors.” 
Toni Megna
SG Supervisor of ElectionsReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORThursday’s question: Will you try Ron 
Jeremy’s new spiced rum?
51 TOTAL VOTES18% YES
82% NOToday’s question: Are you excited about seeing Sister Hazel at Gator Growl?Liquor Lessons
Drinking age should 
be lowered
It might be shocking to some, but college students, regard-less of whether they are older than 21, sometimes drink adult beverages. 
And yet, the moral fabric of American society is still in-
tact. 
UF recently took a positive step toward destigmatizing the 
idea of underage drinking when it passed its alcohol-related medical amnesty policy. 
If students go to the hospital and are under the legal drink-
ing age, they will receive treatment without facing disciplin-ary action from the university. 
This does not mean you should get black-out drunk all of 
the time, but in case you ever have one too many, you can feel safe going to a UF medical facility. 
And you should definitely go. This fall, there have been 13 UF students with alcohol-re-
lated emergencies, 5 of which were underage. 
Although this number is the highest for a fall semester 
since 2007, it is actually a good sign if students who otherwise would shy away from treatment are seeking medical attention for problems that could lead to serious illness or death. 
Of course, we all hear and make the argument that it is a 
little strange that we allow people 18 years or older to vote and die for our country, but deny them the ability to drink alcohol. 
But an even bigger argument for lowering the drinking age 
and removing the stigma from alcohol consumption has to do with health and safety. 
In most families, parents are afraid to discuss the idea of 
drinking with their children, but that could be changing. It is not because there are not enough ad campaigns telling par -
ents to talk to their kids about drugs and alcohol. 
It’s because the government wants teenagers to be informed 
about alcohol consumption while denying them the ability to legally learn about it in the comfort of their own home. 
Parents can talk about the effects of drinking all day, but 
the first night spent puking out your stomach or the first time you wake up with one of the worst headaches you have ever had can teach you a lot more about the consequences of alco-hol consumption. 
It is no wonder there are so many incidents of binge drink-
ing and alcohol-related medical emergencies when underage students go to college. 
The fact of the matter is that some students will go to par -
ties where alcohol is present, and most will partake in the fes-tivities. 
Lowering the drinking age and allowing students to expe-
rience the pleasure and pain of drinking alcohol first-hand, along with guidance of experienced adults, can go a long way in reducing these problems. Bachmann should be taken with grain of salt
She’s radical. She’s outspoken. She’s amusing. She’s in-
sane. She’s even moderately attractive. She is, quite sim-ply, absolutely entertaining.
But Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann, while being all of 
those things, is also dangerous.
Two weeks ago, at a Republican Party debate, a trivial is-
sue was brought up by a few of the candidates. During his time as governor, Texas Gov . and GOP hopeful Rick Perry endorsed an executive order requiring girls entering the sixth grade to receive a vaccination against the human papilloma-virus, an STD responsible for cervical cancer among women. Despite the fact that parents were able to opt out of the proce-dure with a simple form, the order was rejected by the Texas legislature.
It’s a black mark against Perry that has surfaced numer -
ous times during his campaign, particularly since it repre-sents a government intrusion into private life. 
And if you believe Bachmann’s claims, it’s also an action 
that would have jeopardized the mental health of countless young women.
During the debate, Bachmann was clear. Perry’s order 
was a “government injection” of “innocent little…girls.” And the vaccine? A “potentially dangerous drug.”
Following the debate, Bachmann went one step further, 
telling our beloved Fox News she had met an audience mem-ber who claimed to have a child who had suffered “mental retardation” as a result of the vaccination. 
The next day, Bachmann’s claims were deemed so egre-
giously untruthful that the American Pediatric Association felt the need to step in with a press release stating that “there is absolutely no scientific validity to this statement.” 
If this all sounds eerily familiar, it’s because this is not the 
first time these criticisms have been levied against vaccines.
For years, actress Jenny McCarthy has been champion-
ing against vaccinations, claiming they resulted in the emer -
gence of autism in her own son and in countless other chil-dren across the nation. She continues to fight for her cause despite repeated scientific studies showing no link between vaccines and autism.
To be quite clear, vaccines do not cause mental retardation in children. They are not danger -
ous. They can and do save lives.
Bachmann lied.In some ways, it’s not her 
fault.
You don’t blame a child for 
thinking Paul Revere rode his horse to scare away the British. It’s not true, and somebody really needs to step in and give that child 
a more appropriate education. But it’s a single misguided kid. They’re not responsible for spouting this nonsense be-cause nobody expects them to be.
And really , even if Bachmann wasn’t out there fighting 
the uninformed tea party cause, somebody else would be.
The issue at hand is not that people like Bachmann exist. 
There’s no stopping that. What’s problematic is the fact that we pay attention to them.
Sure, most of it is out of mockery. Bachmann is not a seri-
ous contender for the GOP nomination. Even Herman Cain is looking better than she is. We follow Bachmann in the news not because she could become our next president, but because we love hearing the absurd things that come out of her mouth. But there’s a point where shameless entertain-ment segues into a legitimate cause for concern.
For every one of us who wisely takes every single thing 
Bachmann says with a grain of salt, there’s a person out there who heard her criticism of vaccinations and took her words to heart.
There’s at least one mother out there who is now much 
less likely to vaccinate her daughter against a potentially deadly disease.
By giving Bachmann a platform, we’ve given her the abil-
ity to influence and persuade. We’ve made her a danger to society.
Her social conservatism, if it were to become public poli-
cy, would be detrimental to America.
But simply listening to her state it might be just as bad.Alex Guilmartin is a psychology and pre-law senior at UF . His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Alex Guilmartin
letters@alligator.org THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Ever since I was a little kid, I have been told that plants 
needed Miracle-Gro to grow big and strong. 
While it is true that plants need nutrients to grow, 
chemical fertilizers are not the best choice to feed them. Fertiliz-ers are Mother Nature’s drugs. Too much can lead her to O.D.
Studies have shown that mass fertilizer use has led to a large 
loss in biodiversity due to runoff pollution. Runoff is danger -
ous for people and animals; it gets into our water supplies, causing sickness or death.
For decades, the United States has used nitrogen-based fer -
tilizers, believing it would create the greatest growth in plants. However, scientists have found that runoff nitrogen can lead to “dead zones” in salt-water sys-tems, where living creatures can-not survive.  
Still want big vegetables? 
There is a solution: compost.
Compost improves the soil’s ability to hold nutrients and 
stabilizes soil pH. It can increase the water-holding capacity of sandy soils and reduce erosion and runoff. Compost also helps reduce plant-borne disease. 
The nutrients that are present in your compost are biode-
gradable and will not harm the environment. 
Composting is also very easy and cheap. The only effort needed is to put your food scraps in the pile or bucket. 
Once your scraps are decomposed, add it to your garden. 
Scientists have shown that compost gardens produce growth output similar to that of chemical fertilizers.
It is hard to produce in bulk, but for those of you with home 
vegetable or flower gardens, compost is the better alternative.
If we all change our behavior to use compost rather than 
chemical fertilizers, we can help save Mother Earth.
Stop using chemical fertilizers. If you want to increase the 
size of your cucumber; compost it!
Kimberly Johnston is a wildlife ecology and conservation senior 
at UF.Gardeners should use compost in place of chemical fertilizersGuest column
Kimberly Johnston
Speaking Out
What do the Florida legislature, the 
Board of Trustees and Student Gov-ernment have in common? 
They all think that you should pay signifi-
cantly more in tuition, and each is responsible for votes that resulted in a 15-percent total in-crease just this year. The Editorial Board of the Alligator last week indicated that even our school newspaper believes making students pay more is smart policy , and we shouldn’t feel entitled to an affordable education anyway . Less surprisingly, the UF College Republicans expressed similar enthusiasm for the hikes.
The UF College Democrats couldn’t dis-
agree more. Affordable higher education is not a wasteful entitlement, but a smart investment.  State-subsidized higher education greatly pro-motes social mobility, giving people the op-portunity to contribute more to society than they may have otherwise. Making education less accessible translates into a waste of human capital, which is critical to the prosperity of ad-vanced economies. The coupling of cuts to merit-based aid such as Bright Futures and tuition increases 
only further sets back the middle class, which largely does not have access to need-based aid.
As public education in this state is strangled, 
it is becoming evident that the Republicans’ ef-forts to make this state more business-friendly is in fact making the outlook bleaker for thou-sands of young Floridians.
Our leaders in Tallahassee have made their 
priorities clear: The interests of students and the middle class are not among them. Therefore, the UF College Democrats would like to affirm our defense of Bright Futures and condemn both the heavy tuition increases and constant cuts to education funding. 
Ford Dwyer is a political science and history 
junior at UF. He is the editorial director of the UF College Democrats.
UF College Democrats support affordable higher educationGuest column
Ford Dwyer
Speaking OuttheAvenue    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
Twit Pick 
@BigSean: I’m about to swag the 
swamp out in Gainesville Florida this Thursday at the Vault Boiiiiii ... Go Gators!!! Do it Check us out online to 
see how your head can get into the gameday spirit with “Shake Ya Gator Feather.” In the Alligator Blogosphere  
To see why Gainesville needs more Bollywood, a review of the movie “Abduction,” basic car maintenance for students and the spot the TSA is now checking on travelers, visit alligator.org/blogs. AUDREYANNA LOGUERRE
Avenue Writer 
Tonight at 7 p.m., a concert featuring Big Sean will light up 
The Vault NightClub’s parking lot. The show comes just before 
Big Sean’s Finally Famous Tour kicks off Sunday .  
This will be Big Sean’s second appearance in Gainesville 
since his first concert at The Vault in December.  
This event will be the first outdoor concert in Gainesville 
that PartyDegee.com and Wrld Ent. have promoted at The Vault, according to officials at The Vault.  
PartyDegree.com co-founder Matt Teper said he and his 
partner, James Dieterle, chose the date of the concert near the time of the UF vs. Alabama game because they wanted to bring a lot of excitement before the game and help the Gators win.
“This was our first opportunity to throw an outdoor show,” 
Teper said. “The demand for Big Sean was high, and this will be a cool atmosphere — almost like a tailgate theme.” 
“You don’t need to be a hip-hop fan to have fun at a Big Sean 
concert,” Dieterle added. “He’s known for his performances. This is more than a concert; it’s an experience every student and Gainesville resident will appreciate.”
Gates open at 6 p.m., and tickets are available at ticketmas-
ter.com. General admission tickets are $20 and VIP tickets start at $30.
Neither PartyDegree.com nor Wrld Ent. could disclose the 
cost of the event, but students can expect a 20-foot stage, a good time and five opening acts, including UF alumnus Gabe Fields.
The Miami native and 2011 UF telecommunications gradu-
ate is back in Gainesville to open up for one of the hottest up-and-coming hip-hop artists. His first performance in Gainesville was Aug. 25 when he opened up for Chiddy Bang’s Never Growing Up Tour. 
After graduation in May , Fields decided to pursue his music 
career instead of telecommunications and even turned down a television-related job in Miami.  
He released his first song during the beginning of August. 
His first mixtape is tentatively set to release in October or No-vember of this year. 
To learn more about Gabe Fields and listen to his work, 
check out youtube.com/gabefieldsmusic, follow him at twitter.com/gabefields and visit his website at gabefields.com. 
Avenue writer Audreyanna Loguerre got the chance to chat 
with Fields on his way to Miami to rehearse with his disc jock-ey, DJ Crespo, for tonight’s show.
It’s great that you are a UF alumnus and opening up for 
Big Sean. How do you feel to be coming back to Gainesville and opening up for a huge hip-hop artist?
“It’s amazing. I’m excited in a lot of ways — proud and re-
ally just happy to be back in Gainesville, the town that I went to college in and that gave me my last four years. It’s an amaz-ing feeling to come back and see everyone, you know, to do a show like this. It lets me know that I’m moving in the right direction.”  
At UF , you realized that you wanted to further pursue 
your music career. What triggered it for you? What made you come to that realization?“I’ve been writing music at a very young age, since 13. I ac-
tually recorded my first song when 15. Back then, it was more of messing around and for the fun of it, but my senior year I went back to it. Since I graduated, I was able to put my full fo-cus, time, energy and 100 percent of me into it because I really couldn’t give that in college. In college was when it came back to me, and I knew it was something I had to do.”
How did your parents react when you told them that you 
weren’t pursuing telecommunications, but instead pursuing your music career?
“I’m very fortunate. My parents were very supportive of me 
in every way . They were 100 percent behind me. I think they knew that I wanted this and that I had it in me. I think they believed in me, and they want me to be happy .”  
Do you think you will ever pursue telecommunications, 
or is your focus just music?
“No — absolutely . There’s a lot of things I’d like to do in 
my life. I want to get into television and film. I focused more on broadcast in college, but honestly I always enjoyed taking classes, so, I wouldn’t even mind going back to school. (Fields chuckles) I’m still writing scripts on the side, and it’s just for the time being I’ve chosen to focus on this but, yeah, I do see myself going back one day.”What is the inspiration for your mixtape that’s currently in 
the works? The theme — what is it going to be about?
“My music is a reflection of who I am and my thoughts, feel-
ings and my experiences that I’ve had. As an individual, I think that I share a lot of obstacles and challenges other people have went through. For this mixtape, it’s an interesting time in my life, because I’m chasing a dream that I’ve had at a very young age and that not many people even have the opportunity to get. I basically want to capture the moment of everything that’s go-ing on while I’m doing these shows because it’s a lot of excite-ment around it. I have a lot of people around me that believe in me, and I certainly don’t want to fail them. I feel like every time I do music and step into a booth, I always have a chip on my shoulder because of my circumstances — a college grad — and it’s a lot of things going for me that aren’t really looked up to in the rap game. There’s a lot of proving in myself that I have to do and proving to the world on this first mixtape, and I believe that myself and my team are ready for it. This show is very big as well.”
Before speaking to you, I actually searched for your 
SoundCloud. “Lonely Mind” is my favorite out of the entire four tracks. Can you speak on that song?  
“‘Lonely Mind’ draws on a couple of  different relationships 
or experiences in the past that I’ve had with women. They were something that had an impact in my life. Basically , I came up with the song sort of looking back on and reflecting, but sort of looking forward. Which I feel like this is a common threat in life and relationships where we’re hanging onto the past, and you can’t get to the future by doing that. I wrote that third verse to tie everything together and to really explain where my heart was. I actually wrote that in one night and recorded it in one night on my second take, with that third verse. That third verse has everything that I have in me.”
What’s the thing you miss most about UF and college 
life?
(Field chuckles) “All the people there. I miss my friends and 
people that I know I’ll get to see when I come back in town. I desperately miss gamedays. I’m staying for the Alabama game weekend, and I can’t wait to have a gameday .  You know there’s just something about the games on gameday that’s dif-ferent than anywhere else. I’ll be staying that weekend, and I’ll be looking for a ticket. So, if anyone has any tickets …” (Field chuckles)
Do you have any advice for UF students who also want to 
jump into the hip-hop game but have doubts or are afraid?
“I definitely want to mention there’s a huge fear, and I was a 
pretty guarded person growing up, for whatever reason. When you have something that you own, something that you’re writ-ing or music, there’s a fear of putting yourself out there. I’m learning a lot about that with people that I’m working with. I definitely had a fear of putting something out there like ‘Lonely Mind’ because that’s pretty serious subject matter that not a lot of people knew about. I would say you’ve got to really do what you want to do. I wouldn’t jump out of college and do some-thing just because the money’s right. If you can’t enjoy and see yourself doing it, it isn’t right for you … As far as music, a lot of people have fears about putting themselves out there, but you’ll never know until you try . Besides that I’m just starting out, so I’ll have a way better quote in a couple years.”
For the rest of our interview with Fields, visit alligator.org/
the_avenue.
Photo courtesy to the Alligator 
Gabe Fields, a 2011 UF graduate, will help kick off 
‘Bama weekend in style as an opener for tonight’s con-cert featuring Big Sean at The Vault NightClub.UF alumnus opens for Big Sean to kick off big weekend SPECIAL GATORS VS. TIDE ISSUE
“This is more that a concert; it’s an experi-
ence every student and Gainesville resident will 
appreciate.”
Matt Teper
co-founder of Partydegree.com
KIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer 
When I walk on campus, I can feel it. There’s excite-
ment, hope for a victory and enough good company to 
spare. The smell of charcoal, burgers and beer fills the air. 
Behind Broward Hall lies a tailgate like no other. Drinks 
are held high as Gator Tony makes a toast in memory of deceased friends and for a UF win. After almost 20 years, a legend has been made. 
“It wouldn’t be a football game if I didn’t see Gator 
Tony,” said Natalie Romano, a UF psychology senior. “Since my first football game, I saw him. It’s a tradition.”
Anthony “Gator Tony” Burke, a 56-year-old who lives 
in Ocala, has been tailgating at the same place since 1993. He has been writing the toast before each game since 2008 after the founder, Robert “Gator Bob” Bishop, passed down the tradition.
Though the toasts first started to insult the opposing 
team, over the years they have also become  a way to com-memorate old friends.  In 1994, the crew began toasting Gator Tom and Gator Sue, said 61-year-old Bob of Turkey Lane, Fla.In 1994, Bob’s sister Susan Murphy died from cancer. 
In 1985, Tom Rymer died in a car accident. The two were both part of the original six-person football block started in 1979.
“I did not want people to forget Gator Tom and Gator 
Sue,” Bob said.
Bob ran out of ideas for toasts when he decided to el-
evate Tony to “Gator” status. The two have been friends for about 25 years, Bob said.
“I said, ‘It was time for a change,’” the 1972 UF gradu-
ate said. “The torch was passed. I do put in a guest ap-pearance once in a while.”
Tony graduated from UF in 1977 with a bachelor’s de-
gree in journalism. The toasts give him the chance to con-tinue writing, he said.
“I try to be intelligent and cerebral a little bit,” Tony 
said. “I’m not just going to be like, ‘Roses are red, violets are blue. We’re the Florida Gators, and we’re gonna beat you.’”On gamedays, tailgating is Tony’s top priority, second 
only to the game, he said. 
Tailgating on campus allows Tony to reminisce. “As you progress on your journey through life, things 
change, but one of the things that hasn’t changed for me are going to those football games,” he said. “There’s still an invigoration that I get when I walk into the stadium, and I see the field, and I see the inside of the stadium and hear the crowd. I’ve been doing that since I was 11 years old.”
Tony can trace Gator games back over periods of his 
life like when he was a kid, teenager, college student, newlywed and new father. 
“It’s always been the constant in my life,” he said.The 1966 Auburn game was the first of almost 300 
games Tony attended. He still remembers Steve Spurrier and the winning field goal known as “The Kick.” 
Tony attends every game after he tailgates. While on 
an 18-year streak, he has only missed two games, one of which was in 2004 for his daughter’s wedding.
UF can definitely beat Alabama, Tony said without 
hesitation.
“They better bring their A-game,” he said. “If they 
think they’re just going to walk in there and walk out with a win, they’re sadly mistaken. If Alabama thinks all they have to do to win is show up, then they will get beat.”
Check out one of Gator Tony’s speeches below.  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Erin Turingan / Alligator 
Anthony “Gator Tony” Burke has become a quintessential gameday figure on campus, giving toasts to 
pump up tailgaters before every home game.  
Toasts and Tailgates: One man’s Gator tailgating tradition 
Gator Tony’s Speech vs. Troy University
Why do they come back?
Those boys from old Troy
To do battle with the orange and the blue
This one should be good …
For maybe a quarter,
Before the Gators beat the Trojans to stew. 
 
Trojan dreams of a victory are quite premature … 
In no time at all, they’ll be ﬂ  accid.
And the notion that they 
can hang with the champs, 
Hey Trojans ... are you guys on acid? 
 
So don’t be concerned if the Trojans appear ready, 
looking hard … rock-ribbed … standing tall …
But the Gators will certainly have everything covered,
They’re playing our game with our ball.
 
So wolf down some breakfast, 
have a sip of champagne, 
raise a toast to Gator Tom and Gator Sue,
Then follow us to the Swamp, and into the stands, 
where we’ll cheer on the orange and the blue.
 
In hundreds of games, I’ve cheered for the Gators, 
For victory I know I have lust, 
But only today, 
for the ﬁ  rst time in my life, 
Have I wished for a Trojan to bust. 
Maegan Dennis / Alligator Staff“It wouldn’t be a football game if I didn’t see 
Gator Tony.”
Natalie Romano
UF student
Gator Tony peps up crowds with speechesAMANDA JAE FRETZ 
Avenue Writer
Christie Leigh Mueller is the epitome 
of class and fanaticism. She is dressed in a 
three-quarter-length sleeve blue cotton dress, khaki woven cinch belt, orange sandals and a string of pearls. Her hair, of course, is twisted in an adorable Southern braid. 
With her first book, “Gridiron Belles: 
A Guide to Saturdays in Dixie,” available now, she is bound to become every clueless-about-football-but-dying-to-understand girl’s best friend.
Targeted at “the Yankee transplant trying 
to figure out football in the South, the soror -
ity girl whose daddy never taught her about the game, the recent grads looking for tailgate ideas and the 
women who host mas-sive, immaculate tailgates every home Saturday,” “Gridiron Belles” began as a project to help a sorority sister. 
“I made her a crafty book before a foot-
ball date with a frat boy to understand the game,” Mueller said. “They actually ended up getting married two years ago.” 
Football has always been an integral part 
of Mueller’s life. Born and raised in Ken-tucky, she recalls her first SEC football game as “heaven on Earth.” “It was bigger than I ever imagined,” she 
said. “I felt like I was really a part of a move-ment.”
“Gridiron Belles” encompasses more than just football — it focuses on the art of Southern tailgating. Mueller cites shade, chairs and music to “set the tone and add a personal touch” as must-haves. As for food and drink, stick with protein-packed, bite-sized hors d’oeuvres (Mueller suggests Publix fried chicken in the “University of Florida” section of “Gridiron Belles”) and plenty of water.
“I’m a Kentucky girl, so bourbon is a 
must for me as well,” she said.
Mueller spent three years researching — 
attending games, learning traditions and cheers and determining the best after-party locations. So what set the UF apart from its SEC counterparts?
“The intensity of the fans,” she explains. 
“Gator fans are constantly rattling off sta-tistics to the point where they’re defending a call. I used to date a Gator — our biggest fights revolved around the UF-Auburn (Mu-eller’s SEC team of allegiance) rivalry. That relationship didn’t last long.” 
Mueller finds the SEC belles to be just 
as fanatical about their teams as the gents. A belle’s way of expressing it is less about hooting and hollering than it is about her gameday apparel. 
According to her, the quintessential 
Southern belle’s Saturday outfit consists of a team-colored dress and accessories to add some “feminine flair.”
 Though her profession is still business 
etiquette consulting, it is this praise that makes Mueller want to keep going. And yes, we can expect a sequel. 
“Gridiron Belles: A Guide to Saturdays in 
Dixie” is available at gridironbelles.com.10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
Southern belle takes football tailgating know-how to print
Mueller THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
 He Says…  She Says… With Alabama rolling 
into town this week, it seems 
fitting to discuss what gives us Southerners our sex appeal. Whether it’s handsome men sporting the old-South look or lovely Southern belles, there’s something about the style that makes the SEC one good-looking conference.
But what is real Southern 
sex appeal? Good looks and the proper clothes certainly help. But it just may be that irresistible charm accented by a long, Southern drawl that exemplifies true sexiness. 
Bottom line: What makes 
Southern people so damn sexy?He Said, She Said: What makes Southern charm so sexy? 
True Southern sex appeal 
isn’t about the looks; it’s the personality that 
makes all the difference. Yes, ladies, you just read that cor-rectly. A man just told you it’s not always about how at-tractive you are. We go to UF, where there are good-looking people all over the place. Any girl can throw on Southern garb and pretend to play the role of a hot Southern belle. Real Southern beauty is a life-style — not a fashion trend.
The girls who do Southern 
style right are the ones who don’t try at all. They’re natu-rally sweet — with a hint of innocence. They aren’t afraid to get wild and have a good time but won’t necessarily show it until the time is right. But more than anything, being Southern is about being po-lite and lovable. A real Southern belle is a lady — born and bred below the Mason-Dixon line.
This is what makes 
Southern charm so hard to ignore. It’s that re-freshing change of pace from the party-every-night types who act like every-thing is a popularity contest. Southern girls know who they are and how they look and are perfectly content with it. That, my friends, is sex appeal.
— JACOB ROMOSERWhat is it about Southern gen-tlemen that drive women wild?  Is it their timeless chiv-
alry? Their effortless combination of 
machismo and manners?    
Ladies, let’s bring y’all into 
this, too.  What’s going on with the sex appeal in this heat?  
As I hit the pavement to un-
cover the mystery behind the provocative Southern je ne sais quoi, one characteristic stood out as the most titillating quality 
of Southerners: the accent.  
Ashley Lowery , a UF art history 
graduate student, encompasses this allure.  Born and raised in the small town of Dalton, Ga., she epitomizes the expression “peach” with her bubbly personality , smiley disposition, long, naturally blonde locks and inviting Southern articulation.
“I often get complimented by my 
gentleman callers, and I have been guilty of using that fact to my advan-tage,” she said. “In turn, Southern men can be VERY sexy with their accents — Blake Shelton, I am talking about you.” 
But a solid Southern twang is not 
everyone’s cup of sweet tea.  
“When I grew up in Georgia, I dis-
owned my Southern-ness because of stereotypes, and my mama’s insistence that I could not have my “puddin’” un-til I pronounced the “g” at the end,” she said.  “However, I have learned to own it and be proud of my accent, because it is as natural to me as a French accent is to a Frenchman.”
Self-acceptance — now that’s hot.
— KAY BEA12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
SAPHIRA LAZARRE
Avenue Writer 
As if the home football game between UF 
and the University of Alabama isn’t enough 
this weekend, Gainesville is in for another special treat.
Student Government Productions is host-
ing Grammy-Award-winning country art-ist Dierks Bentley, who will be performing at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center Friday night. 
You’re probably thinking,
 “Am I the 
Only One”  excited for the concert? Nope, 
we are, too.  
Below you can find some fun tidbits about 
the event. Take note of the titles of some of Bentley’s hit singles intertwined in the con-cert tips — a chance for you to get pumped up for his performance and familiarize your-self with Bentley’s latest and greatest tunes. 
Whether you have seats in the top row 
or front-and-center, everyone is sure to
 
“Come A Little Closer”  to the stage. 
Didn’t buy a ticket yet? Instead of asking 
yourself “What Was I Thinkin’?”  make 
your way on over to the University Box Of-fice and purchase one. Tickets will be on sale the day of the concert. Student ticket prices range from $20, $25 and $35.  Non-student tickets will be sold for $40, $45 and $56. Re-member to bring your Gator 1 Card with you to purchase tickets. 
We’re sure the lines to enter the O’Connell Center will be 
“So So Long.”  Arrive early 
to allow yourself plenty of time to find your seats. Doors will open at 6 p.m., and the con-cert will begin promptly at 7 p.m. 
Need to get in the mood for the concert 
after a long day of classes (we know you won’t play hooky)? Enjoy a nice plate of bar-beque to get into the spirit of country mu-sic.  Eateries like Kay Bros. BBQ, Adam’s Rib Co. and Sonny’s Real Pit Bar-B-Q have some 
“Sweet & Wild”  barbeque choices that 
will surely satisfy your taste buds.
If the food doesn’t quite do the trick, ask 
any concert-goer, and he or she will tell you how to prepare for a Dierks Bentley perfor-mance. 
“I’ll probably wear some casual clothes 
with my cowboy boots and a hat,” said Rick Menditto, a mechanical and aero-space engineering sopho-more at UF. 
Menditto isn’t the only 
one who will be decked 
out in good ole’ country gear.
Randi Riggs, an architecture junior at 
UF, is planning on getting ready for the big event, too. 
“I’ll be dressing up for the show,” said 
Riggs. “And of course, I have to wear my cowboy boots.” 
Once your belly is full from southern 
cuisine and your Levi’s are on, it’ll be about time to finally get a chance to 
“Feel That Fire.”  With the number of concert attend-
ees estimated to be at 2,100 so far, we’re sure the atmosphere will be nothing short of elec-tric. 
So whether you take pictures right-side 
up or 
“Sideways”  Friday night, the Dierks 
Bentley concert is sure to be one you’ll never forget. 
Some fans are ecstatic to hear Bentley live 
in concert. I’m not too sure if I’m  ready to give up 
“My Last Name,”  but Shellie 
Fisher, a food and resource economics junior at UF, is.
“Marry me, Dierks Bentley!” Fisher said.Preppin’  for Bentley’s UF - ’Bama Weekend country showdown  
James Minchin III / Alligator
Country star Dierks Bentley will perform in the O’Connell Center on Sept. 30 to kick off 
the UF vs. Alabama weekend in Southern style.
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
Devon Slabaugh models one of her designs from her gameday bow and dress 
line, Lucky Design.
ARYANNA HARRELL
Avenue Writer
From figuring out where to buy the perfect 
Gator-chomping dress to deciding on a bow to 
finalize your outfit, finding the perfect game-day attire can sometimes prove challenging. Luckily, there are many gameday boutiques around the city that make it easy for trendy Gators to find that ideal look.
Lindsay Leider, a 21-year-old UF retail 
associate at Allure Boutique, sees about 150 customers a week searching for the latest in Gator fashion. 
Allure Boutique, located at 3832 W. New-
berry Road Suite 2-B, has one of the larg-est selections of orange and blue dresses in Gainesville. It is the only boutique in the city that sells Natalie Kim dresses, which are custom-fitted, handmade dresses specifically designed for college students. Kim comes to the boutique on Thursdays during gameday weeks between 5  p.m. and 7 p.m. to custom fit her customers’ dresses. 
Allure has Gator dresses, bags, shirts, 
shoes, jewelry, koozies, belts, jackets, but-tons, headbands and bows. One could spend as little as $70 to get a stylish gameday outfit, according to Leider. 
Devon Slabaugh, a 20-year-old UF fash-
ionista  and Lauren Carey, a 20-year-old Florida State student, started a gameday bow and dress line called Lucky Design earlier this summer. Slabaugh handmakes Gator-inspired bows and dresses at her house, with bows starting at $5 and dresses starting at $50. Merchandise from the collection can be found at facebook.com/luckydesigndevon-lauren. Other places to find Gator apparel include: Gator Mania, in the Oaks Mall; Pin-ner’s Fine Shoes, 3411 W University Ave.; Lily Pad, in the Oaks Mall; Gator Shop, 1702 W University Ave.; Ilene’s for Fashion, 2441 NW 43rd St. #25B.; Target, 3970 SW Archer Road; Walmart, 3570 SW Archer Road; and on campus at the bookstore.
Remember, there is no such thing as too 
much orange and blue when it comes to gameday in the Swamp!
Gainesville’s hubs for fash-
ion-forward gameday duds
Gameday Style Budget
Lucky Design orange and blue hair bow, 
$5
Ashton Nichole Inc. Gator earrings, Al-
lure Boutique, $24
Gator blue, rhinestone encrusted watch, 
Allure Boutique, $19.99
Natalie Kim gameday dress, Allure Bou-
tique, $110
Diana Kelly blue-leather wedge alliga-
tor brooch sandals, Pinner’s Fine Shoes, $128
Hand-painted Paisley Tailgate Toddies, 
nataliekimgameday.com, $25
Looking fabulous in 85-degree weather 
while watching UF dominate Alabama ... priceless!THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive
$349 4/4 All-Inclusive
VISA Gift Cards Available
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line.
All utilities included. Furnished.Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398           10-14-11-2-1
7 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS
2BR/1BA duplex. New kitchen, W/D incl. 
Quiet area. Available now. $625/mo incl wa-ter. Call 352-871-6413   9-30-11-10-1
SIGN & DESIGN OPEN HOUSE!
Take a tour Oct 7th from 12-6
*Food*Prizes*Music*Specials
Rates $339 and up $0 app.
Now signing! 352.379.9300
10-7-11-12-1Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
     1,2,3,BR’s – Welcome Home!
·         HUGE floorplans! * H20/Sewer Incl!·         W/D Avail! * Pets Loved!·         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis·        376-2507 * BivensCove.com 12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    10-17-11-40-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1800/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    10-10-11-35-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-588710-31-46-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2Spacious 3br/2ba/2cg home in Blues Creek, 
huge Mbr/ba w/walk-in closet,cent ac/heat w/sec sys,internet hookup, all appls, W/D, $1200/mo, 7953 NW 48 way, call 954-805-7827, 561-912-6223, billyo110708@att.net  9-30-11-18-2
SPACIOUS TOWNHOME with backyard,
2BR/1.5BA
off Archer Road near UF.
Contact 386-328-6229.
e-mail moritae@yahoo.com $529/month
9-29-11-15-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   10-25-11-30-2
1BR/1BA Apts, side-by-side. Large screened-
in porch, W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499/each. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2 & 3 Please call 352-371-3473    10-5-11-15-2
Peaceful living, large floorplans, closets 
galore, FREE CABLE, must see upgrades 1/1 from $550 2/2 from $595352-372-9913                          10-5-11-14-2
OLD FLORIDA STYLE COTTAGE.
Central h/a, laundry with w/d, large screened
porch. Perfect for a grad student or profes-
sional. Walk to UF. 2703 NW 2nd ave.
$795 mo. www.flalcam.com 352-332-5836
9-30-11-10-2
● 2BR2BA HOUSE, w/carport, W/D hk-ups. 
Pet ok. $750/mo● 1BR/1BA APT Pet ok. $475/mo.Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644    10-14-11-20-2
ATTN: UF and Shands Employees 
2 BR 1 Bath homes in Gainesville. 
Spacious fenced-in yards, bring your pets! 
Brand new energy upgrades. $570-$660/mo
Near 6th St. on 39th Ave. 336-9477   
10-17-25-2
Move in October 1st Charleston Place con-
do third floor end unit,very nice! 2293 NW 16th Terrace, 2 bdr/2 ba, tile floors, screen patio,washer/dryer, One mile to campus! Close to Shands. $800 *6mo-12mo lease. Call 904-268-5425 or cfgibby@aol   10-3-11-7-2Spacious 3/2 condo; 1369sqft; pool, club-
house, tennis & fitness; w/d in unit. 2 UF bus routes; 15min to SFC. Rent $880!h: 407.306.9871 c: 407.928.1848   10-3-11-4-2
MOBILE HOMES AS LOW AS $500 DOWN
We Finance - Payments as low as $425./mo
Nice, quiet community near airport.
Buy now - sell after you graduate!
Lamplighter MHC 352-372-4207
www.mhcomm.com
9-29-11-1-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    10-12-11-87-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 15
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
MUSIC STORE NEAR UF-Buy-Sell-Trade@
Discounts We also offer music classes in all instruments & dance. We are the only chari-table music & dance school. Scholarships available. studiopercussion.org 352-338-8302     10-20-20-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
10-31-11-42-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
2001 TOYOTA MR2
Spyder convertible. 5spd, A/C, yellow, Showroom condition. $6750. 352-339-5158    10-3-11-5-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      10-6-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
$$ CASH PAID, UP TO $500 $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   10-5-11-30-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, 
Must be Articulate and Reliable371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G9-30-21-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRINGGreat working environment. PT/FT positions available. Apply in person @ 2906 NW 13Tth St. 352-372-1226 sandysresale.com    10-5-11-17-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   10-12-20-14
Female Nanny/ Housekeeper needed in 
Gainesville. Work week is M-F, hours may 
vary to care for one child (9yrs) & our home. If needed, there is a live in option for the right candidate. Contact Paula (352) 263-8962. 9-29-11-10-14
 Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481   9-30-11-10-14
The Smartphone Club needs data entry 
workers to help update our membership list. Must be able to work at home online with-out any supervision. Guaranteed pay for Guaranteed work.www.thesmartphoneclub.com/Colleges/FL    10-25-11-25-14
The Copper Monkey is looking for 
EXPERIENCED Bartenders/Servers/Cooks capable of working in a high volume environ-ment. Please come in and apply Monday-Thursday between 3pm & 5pm.   9-29-5-14
Are you between the ages of 18-29 and look-
ing for a way to earn extra money? If so, keep reading DSG Associates, Inc. is looking for you to participate in a paid research study. You don’t even have to leave the house, the entire study can be completed online! Register at www.dsgai.com or call our office at 800-462-8765 today to get started! Registering is easy and free. Member of BBB.   9-30-4-14
ANIMAL CARE TECH- Seeking an honest, 
dependable person to take care of snakes full or part time. Duties include feeding, cleaning cages, weighing and egg collec-tion. Position requires working minimum 24 hours/ week from 9AM-5:30PM weekdays only. Pay starts at $7.35/hr. Located in town of Newberry, about 20 min. from Gainesville. Email theanimalcompany@bellsouth.net for application and more info.  9-30-11-4-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT for real estate office. 
Approx 25 hrs/wk, afternoons and some Sat mornings. Tasks include taking rent pay-ments, answering phone, filing, writing let-ters. Min 1-yr commitment expected. Starting pay $7.50/hr. Good PT job for student. Please send resume and cover ltr torabell@atlantic.net  No phone calls please.   12-7-11-50-14Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
Fiddle, Guitar & Mandolin Lessons
Various styles. Contact Alan Stowell 372-
9248 or 262-0171   10-11-10-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   10-11-10-15 
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
Get A Massage!
Proven to help relaxation, regain mental fo-cus and improve test performance!Call Garrett Blanton, L.M.T. MA#55181 @ Advanced Massage Call 328-2919/377-6008.    9-30-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Horse Boarding
15 min from Gainesville. Adjacent to green-way trails. Full or pasture board available. Possible live on farm also. Rates negotiable. Call Eric at 352-572-0959.    9-30-3-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
KANAPAHA
BOTANICAL GARDENS
HALF OFF WITH GATOR ONE CARD 
DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER.
Come and enjoy our beautiful gardens!
9-30-20-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique, 
KEY WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in. Clothes, Gifts, Art, Books, Music, Plants... Hwy 441S.... 15 min that could change you.   10-26-31-21
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Podcast This Friday
Check out alligatorSports.org or iTunes on Friday for a 
new podcast featuring Greg Luca, Tyler Jett and Cody Jones previewing the Alabama game this Saturday. Chris Leak Signs New Professional Contract
Former Gators quarterback Chris Leak signed a contract Wednesday to join the Jacksonville Sharks of the Arena League. The Sharks are the defending champions and Leak will battle for the starting job. Alabama’s Nick Saban (right) taught Will Muschamp much of what he knows about running a program. See Story, Page 19.  
Alligator File Photo
Trey Burton (8) threw an interception on Florida’s first drive in a loss to Alabama last season. Safety Josh 
Evans said the costly turnover broke down the Gators mentally, causing the team to lose focus.
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Last year, after driving 74 
yards in 11 plays on the team’s 
first possession, Florida faced a fourth and goal from the Ala-bama 2-yard line. Instead of at-tempting a game-tying field goal, the Gators went for the touch-down, a statement score. 
But linebacker Nico Johnson 
picked off Trey Burton’s jump pass, Alabama marched down the field and scored a touchdown, and Florida’s hopes of an upset were dashed.
“That offensive drive kind of 
broke us down a little bit and   everybody kind of separated a little bit,” safety Josh Evans said. “[It] broke us down early in the game and we lost focus.”
Turnovers have been key in 
each of the last three games be-tween No. 12 Florida (4-0, 2-0 Southeastern Conference) and No. 3 Alabama (4-0, 1-0 SEC), and if the Gators want to pull off a statement win in Will Mus-champ’s first year on the job, they must protect the ball.
After Burton’s interception 
last year, and already trailing 17-0, quarterback John Brantley threw another on Florida’s third drive. The Crimson Tide capi-talized, scoring 14 points off UF giveaways, and entered halftime with a commanding 24-3 lead. 
In the 2009 SEC Championship 
Game, Tim Tebow threw a critical fourth-quarter interception that erased all hope of a comeback. And in Atlanta in 2008, with Ala-bama driving for a late score, it was Joe Haden’s pick of John Parker Wilson that sealed the win and sent Florida to Miami for the BCS Championship Game.
“Any kind of turnover 
throughout the game is a mo-mentum swing,” Brantley said Monday. “Whenever you can get that, it definitely goes in your fa-vor.” 
At the beginning of his weekly 
press conference summing up the previous weekend’s game, Muschamp always begins with turnover ratio. While Muschamp has professed time and again that he is not a “stats guy,” there is 
Turnover battle key to victory in Florida-Alabama rivalry
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The Gators have yet to fall behind in 
a game this year, much less face serious 
adversity. That could change Saturday, when No. 12 Florida takes on No. 3 Ala-bama.
The coaches don’t know for sure 
how their players will respond to get-ting punched in the mouth, though coaches have tried to simulate those types of situations in practices.
Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn 
said he will track how his unit is per -
forming during scrimmages and tell his players whether they are winning or losing.
“You always pull from those experi-
ences from a practice where you had to go against the offense,” he said. “And sometimes you have to create it a little bit, as a coach, so we’ve done that.”  
Also, players said the Gators are bet-
ter prepared to play in tough games be-cause the team chemistry has improved 
from last season. Coach Will Mus-champ put an empha-sis on team bonding this summer, and the 
team entered training camp talking about a sense of unity they did not feel in 2010.
Junior safety Josh Evans said Florida 
fell apart against Alabama last season after an interception on the team’s first drive. The Crimson Tide kept attacking, Unity has Gators better 
prepared for adversity � FRESHMAN KEEPER 
GAVE UP FOUR GOALS AGAINST TENNESSEE LAST SUNDAY.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
It’s been a long time 
since an opposing team has 
been able to get four goals past Taylor Burke. 
So long, she can barely 
remember.
During her 38 career 
wins in four years at Me-dina (Ohio) High, Burke played a state-record 1,243 consecutive minutes with-out a goal surrendered. 
Through seven games 
as No. 12 Florida’s (8-3, 2-0 Southeastern Conference) top goalkeeper, she’s been similarly sensational with four shutouts.
Until Sunday’s 4-2 loss at 
Tennessee, Burke, a fresh-man, hasn’t had to respond to a game that would be best described as a confidence-shaker for most keepers, 
let alone one in her first colle-
giate season. 
“It’s a little disappoint-
ing, but we’re definitely going to come back hard and work on what we need to work on to make up for that,” she said. “You just need to have a short mem-ory, and you need to learn from it more than any-thing.”
With two more SEC 
clashes against Vanderbilt and Kentucky on the hori-zon, Burke has tried to push the tough end to last week-end out of her thoughts and focus on what she can im-prove on fundamentally.
Friday’s matchup at 
home against the offen-sively inept Commodores (6-4-1, 0-2 SEC), who were shut out two straight games to begin conference play, could provide a momen-tary reprieve for the goalie, but Burke will still require smarter play from her team-mates. 
“We don’t need to panic 
Burke trying to bounce back 
after rough weekend in goalsee F ootbAll, PA ge 19
see soCCeR, PA ge 20see NotebooK, PA ge 19Quinn
UF Soccer“Any kind of turnover 
throughout the game is a 
momentum swing.” 
John Brantley 
UF quarterback18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
THE Mailbag
W  elcome back. We have plenty 
of questions about this week-end’s game against No. 3 
Alabama, so let’s get right to them.
@zachmoller: Who’s your favor-
ite master-padawan combo in col-
lege football coaching?
We appreciate the chance to re-
live this week’s now-infamous ex-change between Will Muschamp and a random television reporter that even made the rounds on ESPN, so thanks for that, Zach.
As for your question, we’ll go 
with Steve Spurrier and Bob Stoops. The defensive-minded Big Game Bob trained for three years under the Ol’ Ball Coach, an offensive genius. Together, the master and padawan truly brought balance to the Force.
@CRainey4Heisman: Why 
is Chris Rainey still not getting any respect from Heisman voters? #RaineyforHeismanWhile Rainey has been all-world 
for Florida this season, you have to look at the bigger picture. There are plenty of other top-tier Heisman can-didates out there right now. There’s Stanford’s Andrew Luck, Baylor’s Robert Griffin III, Boise State’s Kel-len Moore  — and those are just some 
of the quarterbacks. 
Rainey has been great, but he’s 
still not even the best back in the 
Southeastern Conference. That honor belongs to Marcus Lattimore, who has more rushing yards, more total yards and more touchdowns than Rainey right now.
@Jonsilman1: S hould I or should 
I not get my hopes up. Give it to me straight.
You want it straight? We got you 
covered. No, you should not get your hopes up — at least not this weekend. 
Sure, Florida has looked a lot 
more convincing en route to a 4-0 start this season than it did a year ago, but this is the same Alabama defense that held the Gators to six (six!) points last season.
John Brantley has looked more 
comfortable in Charlie Weis’ offense than he did in Steve Addazio’s, but he and his receivers are largely un-tested.
As a group, the Gators haven’t 
faced much adversity , so no one knows how they will respond with their backs against the wall or when they get punched in the mouth, so to speak. The Gators say they are closer this season than they were last, and that it should help them bounce back when they get knocked down, but until we see it, we won’t know for sure how they respond.
@PhilipGaryTalks: With two 
speedsters, two big backs, two FBs plus TEs to block... think 200 yards on the ground is possible?
That will certainly be the idea, 
Philip, but I wouldn’t get too opti-mistic if I were you. Alabama has al-lowed just one 100-yard rusher in its last 50 games. 
The chance of Florida running up 
the yardage against the Tide defense, which features at least six or seven NFL prospects, is slim to none. 
Sure, Rainey is balling out of con-
trol and Demps has the reputation of being the fastest player in the his-tory of the game, but the ‘Bama D is something else. Florida needs to run the ball effectively to win the game, and it’s possible they do so, but 200-plus is asking a lot. 
@AlligatorArmy: Who would 
win in a fight, an elephant or an al-ligator? 
Like all great debates of our gen-
eration, we turned to YouTube for an answer on this epic animal king-dom showdown. The best we could find was a crocodile going toe to toe with an elephant, and to be honest, it was a split decision. The results were inconclusive, at best.
We’ll say this much: If an alliga-tor does try an elephant, the reptile better come out on top, because an elephant never forgets.
If it helps, we did find a video of 
a tiger killing an alligator for next week. 
@bourbonmeyer: Think Jordan 
Reed or Trey Burton throws a pass against ‘Bama?
Weis did say Tuesday that he 
would throw the kitchen sink at Alabama this weekend and empty out his playbook. The real question is what is in Weis’ kitchen sink?
We know Burton does have pass-
ing plays in this offense (he did so against Kentucky last weekend). 
As for Reed, we wouldn’t expect 
to see him attempt a pass against Alabama. He is coming off a “lower-body” injury that has sidelined him the last couple of weeks, and we wouldn’t expect Weis to add that wrinkle to the offense. 
Submit questions on Twitter: @al-
ligatorsports.
More ‘Star Wars’, animal wars and Heisman chatterGREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Were it not for Nick Sa-
ban, Will Muschamp might 
still be calling plays at Val-dosta State. 
That’s where Florida’s 
coach was working when he first met Saban before the 2000 Peach Bowl. 
Muschamp only intend-
ed to catch up with Jimbo Fisher — a friend who was the LSU offensive coordi-nator and now coaches at Florida State — when he stepped into the Georgia Dome to observe a prac-tice. 
Muschamp ended up 
chatting with Saban for about 20 minutes and said the two hit it off. When the job as linebackers coach opened up about a month and a half later, Muschamp interviewed with Saban and was promptly hired. 
“I probably wouldn’t 
be standing here today if it weren’t for the opportunity he gave me at LSU,” Mus-champ said Monday. 
A year later, Muschamp 
became the defensive coor -
dinator, and when Saban left to become the head coach of the Miami Dol-phins in 2005, Muschamp followed as assistant head coach for defense. 
Muschamp stayed with 
Saban for only the first year of his two-year tenure, ac-cepting the defensive coor -
dinator position at Auburn in 2006. “Will probably, of all 
the guys that we have had on our staff through the years, probably worked the hardest, did the best job, had the most passion, was probably as well liked by the players as anyone,” Sa-ban said. 
“He did a great job for 
me for a long time.” 
Working with Saban 
for five years, Muschamp learned a great deal about total program management and building a team iden-tity. 
Saban is also the source 
of Muschamp’s “critical fac-tors” approach to recruit-ing — a system of ranking prospects at each position by certain criteria. 
Muschamp said the fa-
miliarity between himself and Saban gives no advan-tage to either side. Still, of-fensive coordinator Charlie Weis thought it prudent to ask Muschamp for advice on dealing with Saban and defensive coordinator Kir -
by Smart. 
Although cut from the 
same mold, Muschamp’s defense won’t be an exact replica of what Alabama brings to The Swamp. How Saban and Muschamp de-vise their schemes is based on personnel, generating clear differences between the two systems.  
But quarterback John 
Brantley said he sees simi-larities between the two in that each wants to con-fuse offenses with differ -ent looks. Center Jonotthan Harrison said the Florida and Alabama defensive lines are similar in size and style. 
For all the two coaches 
have in common, Saban can point to one key differ -
ence. 
“I can’t jump up and 
down on the sidelines any-more like he does, I can tell you that,” Saban said. “It’s been so long since I’ve been a young guy that I can’t even remember, but I was a little volatile at the time, too. I hope a little less vola-
tile now.”
Contact Greg Luca at 
gluca@alligator.org.
always one he highlights, even back in August 
before games were played.
Muschamp has said, and players have echoed 
him, that the goal is to force three turnovers each game.
“We always try to put pressure on ourselves 
to get at least three or four turnovers a game,” linebacker Jelani Jenkins said. “It’s always im-portant. If you get three turnovers in a game, then chances are you’re probably going to win the game.”
So far this season, Florida has forced seven 
turnovers on defense, while al-lowing seven on offense — not exactly Muschamp’s formula for success. In wins against FAU and UAB, Florida posted a negative-2 margin. Against 
Tennessee and Kentucky, that number increased. 
Florida forced six turnovers 
— four interceptions, two fumbles — in wins against the Volunteers and Wildcats, and that number could have been higher if not for several dropped picks and another called back because of a pass interference penalty.
Florida defensive tackle Omar Hunter said 
the defense has adjusted to Muschamp’s and Dan Quinn’s new scheme and is starting to hit its stride.
“That’s just the maturity of the defense — ev-
eryone coming together,” Hunter said. “Early on in the season we were still trying to figure each other out, and when opportunities presented themselves we didn’t take advantage of them.  
“We’re starting to do that now.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
Alligator File Photo
Alabama coach Nick Saban (pictured) helped groom 
Florida coach Will Muschamp during his career.
FOOTBALL , from page 17Defense forced 
six turnovers in last two gamesMuschamp, Saban cast from same mold
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn (left) said safety Matt Elam, who is responsible for the 
defense’s pre-snap adjustments, has taken the next step to becoming a great player. 
Elam communicating better
and the Gators failed to rally.
“That’s when a team comes in,” Evans 
said of playing tough games. “Everybody 
(is) staying together and helping a team-mate, picking them up and letting them know that if you’re down we can pick it back up, the game’s not over.”
That did not happen last year, as Ala-
bama cruised to a 31-6 win.
More talking: Quinn said his players 
are getting better at communicating when opposing offenses line up. 
In particular, he praised sophomore 
safety Matt Elam, who is tasked with call-ing pre-snap adjustments for all the de-fensive backs.
“There were two or three times in the 
Kentucky game where it showed up and we thought, ‘That was cool,’” Quinn said. “He’s taken the next step as a player.”
Elam said he is more confident, as are 
all of Florida’s young defensive backs. In addition to Elam, three other underclass-men are seeing significant playing time in the secondary. Evans is the only upper -
classman in the rotation.
 “Now that they’ve had a few games together, you see a little more of that fa-miliarity where it’s just a look or a hand signal to say, ‘Yeah, I understand what you’re saying now,’” Quinn said.
Fake FG alert: On its opening drive 
last Saturday, Alabama quarterback A.J. McCarron tossed a 37-yard touchdown after the Crimson Tide originally lined up in a field-goal formation. 
“Any given day they can run a fake, so 
we’ve definitely been watching film and seeing the type of style of fake field goals they’re running,” said Evans, who is on 
Florida’s field-goal block unit.
Evans said cer -
tain members of 
the unit have been instructed to stay back instead of rushing the kicker, just in case McCarron pulls the ball back.
Simple but effective: Quinn said the 
Crimson Tide’s running attack isn’t com-plex. The talent, however, will prove to be a significant challenge.
“I wouldn’t say it’s a function of a lot 
of styles of runs,” he said. “When they do the run and certain schemes they run, they do them at a really high level.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.orgNOTEBOOK , from page 17
UF Fo otballJelani
over one game,” coach Becky Bur -
leigh said. 
“Some of those were goals that 
we sort of inflicted upon ourselves. 
At times, we were numbers down and lots of things went on, so we just need to look at them individu-ally.”
All three first-half goals against 
the Volunteers were fueled by turnovers, leading Burke to stress better communication with her back line in order to help notify them when pressure is coming.
Burke’s teammate at Medina 
High and current Gators forward Jillian Graff said that while last weekend was discouraging for Burke, she has a track record from her prep days of bouncing back from a loss.
“She’s not going to stop every shot, and not even the best goalie can stop everything, so I know she’s doing all she can,” said Graff. 
As one of the top prospects to 
come out of Ohio last year along with Burke, Graff has also seen her teammate’s approach and manner -
isms during a game change since they started playing Division-I soccer. 
“She’s being a lot more vocal than she was in high school,” Graff said. 
“Now, even when I’m on the 
bench, I can hear her directing people. She’s just showing that she can be a leader on the team.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Madison Monserez has a soft 
voice, bright blond hair and an in-
fectious smile. 
But there is one specific trait that 
separates the freshman from hun-dreds of sundress-clad sorority row inhabitants.
“You wouldn’t think she chews 
glass, but that’s how she plays on the court,” UF coach Mary Wise said.
Chewing glass is a peculiar 
analogy, not exactly something the 5-foot-8 defensive specialist imme-diately thinks of when analyzing her own play.
“I try to put all I can on the court, 
and I guess that’s her terminology for it,” Monserez said.
Through 12 games, Monserez 
has seen more game time than any freshman not named Taylor Unroe. Playing three rotations in the back-court, her presence has not only solidified the Gators’ defense, it has helped give outside hitter Stepha-nie Ferrell a three-rotation breather, increasing her production offen-sively. 
“To put such pressure on her as 
a freshman, I think she’s taken it all in stride and it’s not even affecting her at all,” Ferrell said. 
On the court, Monserez is some-
thing of a reckless presence. Con-stantly hustling and hitting the floor, her play does not mirror her off-court persona. Wise said she is 
not sure if she has ever coached a 
player with two personalities so contrary to one another.
“I’ve had 
coaches say some-thing along those lines about me 
before,” Monserez said. “It’s funny that coach Wise notices that.”
Unroe, a redshirt freshman, 
typically shares the back row with Monserez and has been impressed with what she has seen so far. Al-though she is only a year older than Monserez, Unroe said she has felt a need to help her because she has had negative experiences in the past with being the youngest player on a new team.
Unroe, Florida’s starting libero, 
finds that most of the time her big-gest advice is to simplify things and let Monserez’s talent take over.
“She’s surprised by her own 
skills sometimes,” Unroe said. “That’s the best part about her.”
Although Monserez is young, 
her early contributions haven’t surprised anyone on the team. Wise knew what she was getting when she brought in a player who was part of the Orlando Volleyball Academy, a vaunted club pro-gram.
“Those kids coming out of that, 
they know how to compete,” she said. “That’s Erin Fleming and Cal-lie Rivers and Sherri Williams. They have a tradition of bringing in great competitors.”
In 35 sets, Monserez has record-
ed 46 digs and two service aces. When Florida’s offense plays well, it often starts with strong passing performances by Monserez and Unroe.
While she has been productive, 
the freshman admits she isn’t quite settled. Each game provides a new challenge and learning experience.
“I never have any expectations 
because when I do, they’re always proven wrong,” Monserez said.
Freshman Monserez helping solidify No. 13 Gators’ defense
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gators freshman keeper Taylor Burke had four shutouts in her 
first six games before allowing four goals against Tennessee.  
Burke progressing in first season at UF
SOCCER , from page 17She has 46 digs in 35 sets
Monserez
“It’s a little disappointing, 
but we’re definitely going to 
come back hard and work 
on what we need to work on 
to make up for that. You just 
need to have a short memory, 
and you need to learn from it 
more than anything.”
Taylor Burke
UF goalieTAYLOR BURKE’S SEASON 
STATS
No. 0 Taylor Burke GK, Fr.
Florida International: shutout, 3 
savesTexas Tech: shutout, 3 savesNo. 9 Florida State: 3 goals allowed, 2 savesFlorida Gulf Coast: shutout, 0 savesKansas: 2 goals allowed, 6 savesSEC – Georgia: shutout, 4 savesSEC – No. 15 Tennessee: 4 goals al-
lowed, 0 saves