We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 24 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  UF forward Alex 
Tyus (right) nearly 
jumped to the NBA 
after last season 
and has seemingly 
regressed in his 
senior year, scoring 
his fewest points 
per game since his 
freshman year.
See Story, Page 14.By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Hairnet and latex gloves intact, 
Dave Schneider washed the trays 
that were handed to him though the small window in the St. Francis House kitchen. 
To the shelter, he was just anoth-
er helping hand. Only his fellow party members knew he would be on the Student Government ballot running for Student Body Presi-dent in two weeks.
Schneider was one of 15 mem-
bers of the Progress Party who worked at the shelter Monday morning handing out meals to Gainesville’s homeless.
The third-year political science 
and history major said the Prog-ress Party has a high emphasis on service. However, he said many students forget that UF is part of the greater Gainesville area and that they need to be involved out-side of UF as well.
“SG is supposed to be this 
voice,” he said. “You can’t sepa-rate it from the Gainesville com -munity.”
He said he and the Progress 
Party want to bring service back to SG.
“Even though we’re not in pow-
er now,” he said,“we can make a difference.”
Michael Morales, the Progress 
Party campaign manager, said his party wants to get students in-volved to make that change.
“Activism goes beyond protests 
and holding signs,” he said.
He said the Progress Party is 
attending as many student organi-zation meetings as possible to see how they can make a difference in the Gainesville community.
A lot of the organizations are 
hesitant or think they can’t talk with SG, he said. He and the Prog-ress Party want to change that.
“It’s not what SG is used to,” 
Morales said. “But we can try.”
Louisiana police say woman allegedly hit boyfriend with frozen steak 
HOUMA, La. — Police in the southern 
Louisiana city of Houma say a woman up-
set over her lack of freezer space allegedly hit her boyfriend in the face with a frozen beefsteak.
Police told The Courier newspaper that 
47-year-old Edith Tassin was booked with aggravated battery against 51-year-old Jer -
ry Voisin. 
Authorities say she has since been re-leased on bond.
Police say Voisin called police on Sun-
day evening and told them Tassin was try-ing to cool a mixed drink and became upset when it woudn’t fit in the freezer.
Police say Voisin was bleeding from the 
right side of his face when officers arrived.
Tassin had not been assigned a public 
defender as of Monday.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sunny
60/35FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 10
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 14
Jesse Lash / Alligator
Dave Schneider, the Progress Party candidate for Student Body President, works alongside Fernando 
Figueroa, a Progress Party volunteer, to help serve meals at St. Francis House on Monday.
STUDENT GOVERNMENTProgress Party members serve homeless
n THE APPLICATION IS ON THE 
GRAHAM CENTER’S WEBSITE.
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
If you think eliminating a state budget 
deficit is easy, the Bob Graham Center for 
Public Service wants you to try it for your -
self. 
A new application on the center’s web-
site challenges the average person to take 
on the daunting task of eliminating Flori-
da’s $3.6 billion deficit, the same task that 
Gov. Rick Scott and the Florida legislature will face in March.
Senate President Mike Haridopolos 
will announce the winner Thursday . Those who can successfully complete the puzzle can enter to win a free iPad. “What we’re trying to do is invite peo-
ple to solve our budget crisis and to un-derstand a little bit more about what are the main components of our Florida bud-get,” said Ann Henderson, director of the Graham Center. “We are one of the states where our Constitution requires a bal-anced budget.”
When the application is opened, users 
are greeted by a pie chart and a series of 
boxes where students can enter how much money they want to cut from each sector. 
“If you try the application, you can 
quickly conclude that this is a lot a lot more difficult than you might think, and there is pain involved no matter what action you 
might take,” Henderson said.
Henderson said she hopes that the chal-
lenge will have 2,000 entries by Thursday . Puzzle allows players 
to reduce state deficit
By HANNAH SWERDLOFF
Alligator Contributing Writer
If Florida Senate Bill 234 passes, li-
censed gun owners will be allowed to 
openly carry firearms at UF.  
UF Student Senate President Ben 
Meyers, who represents the Unite Party, 
met with Sens. Brittnie Baker, Amanda 
Jones and Ingrid Tojanci on Friday to draft a resolution denouncing this bill. The judiciary committee reviewed the bill and will give it a favorable recom-
mendation at the Senate meeting on 
Tuesday. “It’s a non-political issue,” Meyers 
said. “I’m a Republican; I believe in gun rights. There’s no reason why stu-
dents should be go-ing around carrying guns.”
The resolution lists 
recent instances of gun 
violence on college 
campuses, including ones at the University 
of Texas and Florida 
State University, and recommends that students become educated on weapon Student Senate to vote 
on anti-gun resolution
Meyers
NewsState
SEE GUNS, p AGE 8“Activism goes beyond pro -
tests and holding signs.”
Michael Morales
Progress Party campaign managerNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 24 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
UF Phi Beta Lambda 
Information Session
Today, 6:15 p.m. 
Matherly Hall, Room 118Students interested in devel-oping leadership, communi-
cation and team skills should 
join Phi Beta Lambda, the collegiate division of Future Business Leaders of America. FBLA is the premier profes-
sional business organization 
in the nation. Learn more about our state conference and how you can compete, be 
recognized and win prizes.
Theater Strike Force Show 
Supporting Florida 
Alternative Breaks
Today, 6:30 p.m.
Plaza of the AmericasUF’s premier improv and comedy sketch troupe will 
be performing a show in 
order to support the FAB Disaster Recovery Trip. Stop by for some laughs and to learn about FAB’s Disaster 
Recovery Trip to Nashville, 
Tenn., over spring break.  
Islam and Race: An American 
PerspectiveToday, 6:45 p.m.University Memorial AuditoriumSherman Jackson, a professor 
of Arabic and Islamic Studies 
in Michigan, will speak about the issues regarding race in America and how the reli-
gion of Islam addresses these 
issues. In 2009, Jackson was named one of the 500 most influential Muslims in the world and has also been rec-
ognized as one of the top-10 
experts on Islam in America.
720 Balloon Pop Challenge
Wednesday, 11:30 a.m.Plaza of the AmericasThe UF Bateman Team wants to find out if UF students can pop 720 balloons in seven 
minutes and 20 seconds.
European Study Abroad Info 
SessionWednesday, 11:45 a.m.
Turlington, Room 3312Students interested in go-ing to Krakow, Brussels or Salzburg this summer can 
come to the info session 
sponsored by the Center for European Studies and get all their questions answered.  
Free pizza will be served. Call 392-8902 for more details.
Connecting The Gator Nation 
Wednesday, 5 p.m.
Emerson Alumni Hall
This event will provide stu-dents with a unique oppor -
tunity to build their network 
by connecting with UF alum-
ni. It will provide them with training on getting the most out of networking, tips on Benefit ConcertSunday, 6 p.m.Upper Room Ministries, 3575 
NE 15th St. 
This concert helps the University Gospel Choir  al-leviate some costs for its an-
nual spring break tour. For 
more information, contact the University Gospel Choir at universitygospelchoir.com or e-mail  universitygospel-
choir@gmail.com. 
Indonesia Scholarship 
Information SessionMonday, 4:30 p.m.
Hub, Room 170The Freeman Foundation is offering a fully funded, nine-week summer intern-
ship study abroad opportu-
nity in Indonesia. Internship fields include economic de-velopment, public health, 
art, education and environ-
mental protection. Interested American and Indonesian sophomores and juniors are encouraged to apply. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Scuffle over dog biscuit 
leads to arrest in Mont. 
LIVINGSTON, Mont. — A 
Montana man who took excep-
tion to someone else giving his 
dog a biscuit faces a misdemean-
or assault charge.
The Livingston Enterprise 
reports one man had reached over a fence to give a dog a bone 
Thursday when the dog’s owner 
grabbed him and threw him up against a garage.
Livingston Police Chief Dar -
ren Raney says the dog’s owner 
believed the other man was try-
ing to poison the dog. He was 
not.
The biscuit giver was not in-
jured.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESShow to best market yourself 
and networking experience to build your confidence in 
these types of situations. 
Space is limited to the first 75 students who RSVP through Gator CareerLink. 
Log in to GCL at crc.ufl.
edu, click on “Events,” se-lect “Workshops” and select RSVP next to “Connecting the Gator Nation.” 
Harness Your Passion
Thursday, 6:30 p.m. Harn Museum
Participants will have the 
opportunity to view stu-dent art as well as the new African textile exhibit. In addition, other activities 
related to the 2010 CRP 
selection will take place and light refreshments will be served. For more 
information, please call 
New Student and Family Programs at 352-392-1261, or email newstudentinfo@dso.ufl.edu. 
SG Absentee Ballots
By FridayAbsentee ballots for the SG 
election can be requested at 
sg.ufl.edu/elections. Look under “For the Voter.” The election will be held Feb. 22 and 23.
Women’s Leadership 
Conference “Blueprint for Success” Registration
By Friday
The conference on Feb. 27 offers participants the opportunity to improve their leadership skills. 
With  workshops and a 
graduate school panel, participants will dis-cover the building blocks  
they need to become suc-cessful leaders in society.  UF alumnus Diana Diaz, co-anchor for Miami News Channel 7, will be the key-
note speaker. 
Fourteenth Annual Medical 
College ForumSaturday
Reitz UnionStudents can learn about the medical school admis-sion process and meet 
admissions deans and di-
rectors from every school in the state and across the country. Register online at 
ufpremed.org/mcf or at 
the event. 
University Gospel Choir SUNNY
63/36PARTLY
CLOUDY
61/36RAIN
65/45SUNNY
68/49SUNNY
60/35
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
n THE WALL WILL BE 
LOCATED IN PUGH HALL.
By MORGAN WATKINS     
Alligator Writer
Civil debate at UF is going high-
tech.
The Bob Graham Center for 
Public Service will begin test runs 
in February or March for its Great 
Civil Debate Wall, an interactive 
project that will encourage stu-dents, faculty and others to com-
ment on controversial issues affect-
ing day-to-day life. 
The project should be officially 
installed in October, according to Ann Henderson, director of the center. It will use a wall in Pugh 
Hall to pose questions about press-
ing political issues, which people can then answer using an on-site 
multi-touch interface as well as as-
sociated electronic forums such as smart phones, Facebook, Twitter 
and e-mail. 
For example, a student could 
vote on whether he or she approves of off-shore oil drilling in Florida 
and view others’ responses. The student could answer anonymous-
ly or choose to include personal in-
formation.“What we hope to be able to 
do when we ask questions like that is find where [people] might 
agree,” Henderson said. “This is a 
way of practicing finding common ground.”
The idea developed from the 
center’s desire to create a project that would encourage civil debate, 
largely because Florida residents 
are not as engaged in civil issues as those of other states, she said. 
The Great Civil Debate Wall is one way in which the Bob Graham Center hopes to address the need for increased civility, Henderson 
said. It is one of several projects 
funded by the center’s $3 million grant from the Knight Foundation, 
although its final price tag has not 
been determined.
The center began work on the 
project about a year ago with Local Projects, a New York-based design firm.
“Our studio focuses on different types of civil engagement and sto-rytelling, so I think we’re a natural partner for the project,” said Jake 
Barton, Local Projects principal and 
founder.
The wall provides a unique op-
portunity to reach out and engage a diverse student body in discussions about controversial issues, he said. 
When the project is completed, 
the Bob Graham Center Public Ser -
vice Council will choose a new issue 
to explore each week. The council, which is made up of undergradu-
ate students receiving minors from the center, will monitor the week’s 
responses and polling numbers and 
post the results to the center’s web-site.
The wall at Pugh Hall will hope-
fully be only the first of the project, Henderson said. 
Potential locations for future 
walls include Library West, Star -
bucks and other places at UF and 
throughout Gainesville.
Photo Illustrations: Special to the Alligator
These images represent what the Great Civil Debate Wall, an interactive project,  will look like once it’s constructed at Pugh Hall. The wall 
will be used to encourage students and faculty to voice their opinions on controversial issues.
Debate wall to encourage students to voice opinions
By KAT BEIN 
and MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writers
The two UF swimmers just wanted jackets, but they 
got handcuffs and misdemeanors instead.
Lily Ramirez, 20, and Daniela Victoria, 21, were in the Nordstrom store at the Florida Mall in Orlando on Satur -
day and decided not to pay the $130 for the 
North Face jackets they wanted, according to Orange County Jail records.
Unfortunately for them, loss prevention 
employees saw them walk out of the store on their secu-rity monitors and watched as the two put the jackets in their car and returned to shopping.
An employee verified their Chevrolet Tahoe and found 
the jackets laying in plain sight. The employee stayed and watched the car until the swimmers came back to leave.
At that point, the employee flagged down a nearby po-
lice officer, who pulled the women over. 
When he asked if they stole the jackets, they said yes, 
and he escorted them back to Nordstrom in handcuffs.
The car was towed and the women charged with petit 
theft. They’ve since been released.Two UF swimmers arrested for shoplifting in Orlando
Police say they stole $130 North Face jackets
Campus
Crimen SPONSORS WOULD WAIVE 
THE $9,800 ENTRY FEE.
By ALLISON BANKO 
Alligator Writer
In six months, more than two 
dozen horses and equestrians will 
pair up to take on 1,000 kilometers 
of rough Mongolian terrain. 
For most, the Mongol Derby 
presents a daunting task.  For 22-
year-old UF anthropology senior 
Sallie Dehler, it represents a dream.
This just may be the year she 
reaches it. 
Dehler has advanced to the top 
five in a competition to be sponsored as a competitor in the 10-day derby 
set for Aug. 6, which is dubbed as 
the longest and toughest horse race 
on the planet.
The Adventurists and Horse 
Hero, both companies of the derby , 
will sponsor one equestrian and 
waive the  $9,800 entry fee in ex-
change for the rider’s documenta-
tion of his or her experience through 
video and blogging. 
The finalists have submitted au-
tobiographical videos that are post-ed on Horse Hero’s website, trying 
to reel in as many votes as they can before this Saturday to become the 
winner, who will be announced 
next Monday . 
Dehler first became intrigued 
with the derby when a friend e-
mailed her a link to its website 
about a year ago. Her interest in Mongolia grew 
when she heard her professor tell 
stories of the country during a two-
month trip to Ethiopia last semester for an archeological dig.
“Horses have always been sort 
of a plaything to me,” she said. “It’d be interesting to see a culture that 
really relies on them for a huge part 
of its life.” 
The Mongol Derby will present 
a change of pace for its competitors, 
as riders will compete on an array of 
different horses lent to them by lo-
cal nomads that live along the race’s 
route. 
Dehler said competing on unfa-
miliar horses will present a major challenge. 
“Horses are incredibly sensitive,” 
she said. “Riding a brand new horse 
like this, a brand new one every day 
no less, will be difficult. Every horse 
has their own quirks.”  
Katy Willings, an Adventur -
ist and the director of the Mongol Derby,  said the path is a re-creation 
of a 13th-century horse messenger 
postal system. 
Riders will change horses every 
40 kilometers and there will be sta-
tions with Mongolian veterinarians 
ensuring the health of the horses. 
and local families preparing food 
for the racers.
“People have to be able to rely on 
the hospitality of total strangers,” Willings said. “You share a meal 
with a family you don’t share a lan-guage with.”  
She said that it’s up to the racers how they wish to allocate their time, whether it’s resting with the no-
mads or continuing along the path 
that they will navigate on their own using only a map and GPS. 
“It’s quite a dangerous, risky 
event,” she said. “You need a bit of luck with you to win. There re-
ally are so many things that could 
go wrong. It’s them, the horse and everything the course throws at them.” 
But Dehler is no stranger to ad-
venture. She worked as a wrangler at a Wyoming ranch that had more than 200 horses, repelled down a 
130-foot waterfall and led backpack-
ing expeditions through Maine’s 
White Mountains. 
Despite all Dehler’s experiences, she said the feeling that washes over 
her when she’s horseback riding is 
unmatched.
 “It’s very empowering and 
calming at the same time,” she said. 
“I get a kind of focus with it that I 
don’t get with many other things.”
To vote for Dehler and see her 
contestant video, visit horsehero.
com/mongolderby/finalists.4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011
Special to the Alligator
Sallie Dehler, a UF senior anthropology major, will compete in a 10-day derby in August in Mongolia. 
Student competes to enter Mongolian horse race
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
People are capable of doing many 
things for love. What Grace Guajardo 
did forced the evacuation of more 
than 300 people from a plane mo-
ments before takeoff.
Authorities say she phoned in a 
false bomb threat to keep her boy-
friend from flying off to a new job.
“I’m sorry , but I did it for love,” 
Guajardo said Monday after she was 
charged with making a false bomb threat.
Freed pending trial, she faces up 
to 61 days in jail if convicted. Pros-ecutors decided not to invoke the more severe anti-terrorism law after 
hearing the couple’s story.
Her man, Rodrigo Gomez, had al-
ready boarded Iberia Flight 6830 for 
Madrid on Sunday , planning to take a months-long job as a cruise ship 
waiter.
Desperate that he was leaving, 
Guajardo admitted she called the air -
port from her cell phone demanding that authorities tell Gomez his father 
was gravely ill. When that didn’t work, she called back, alleging there was a bomb on the plane, authorities said.
The plane was already taxiing 
down the tarmac when pilots parked it in a remote location where the 312 
people aboard were taken off and po-
lice with bomb-sniffing dogs meticu-lously searched the luggage. Mean-while, records showed both calls were 
made from a cell phone that Gomez 
had left at home. Guajardo then con-fessed and was arrested Sunday.
She did succeed in getting Gomez 
to stay in Chile. The other 311 peo-
ple were rescheduled for a Monday 
flight.
“Yes, I’m sorry for what I did, it 
wasn’t the best thing 
to do, but at least he’s 
here,” Guajardo said outside court.
The couple informed the court 
that they have lived together for 
eight years and have three children. 
Gomez has often worked as a wait-er on cruise ships, and was leaving home again after a year and a half in 
Santiago.
“I can’t be angry , I have to support 
her. What she needs is love, nothing 
more,” Gomez said, and they kissed again before the cameras.Woman makes most 
romantic bomb threat  THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Employers should think twice before try-
ing to restrict workers from talking about their 
jobs on Facebook or other social media.
That’s the message the government sent on 
Monday as it settled a closely watched lawsuit 
against a Connecticut ambulance company 
that fired an employee after she went on Face-book to criticize her boss.
The National Labor Relations Board sued 
the company last year, arguing the worker’s negative comments were protected speech un-der federal labor laws. The company claimed it fired the emergency medical technician be-cause of complaints about her work.
Under the settlement with the labor board, 
American Medical Response of Connecticut Inc. agreed to change its blogging and Internet policy that barred workers from disparaging the company or its supervisors. The company also will revise another policy that prohibited employees from depicting the company in any way over the Internet without permission.
Both policies interfered with longstanding 
legal protections that allow workers to discuss wages, hours and working conditions with co-workers, the board said.
“I think it certainly sends a message about what the NLRB views the law to be,” said Jon-athan Kreisberg, the NLRB regional director in Hartford who approved the settlement.
“The fact that they agreed to revise their 
rules so that they’re not so overly restrictive of the rights of employees to discuss their terms and conditions with others and with their fel-low employees is the most significant thing that comes out of this,” Kreisberg said.
Terms of a private settlement agreement be-
tween the employee, Dawnmarie Souza, and the company were not disclosed, but Kreisberg 
said the parties reached a financial settlement. 
Souza will not be returning to work there.
Souza declined a request for comment. A 
representative for American Medical Response did not immediately return a call seeking com-ment.
Souza posted the Facebook comments in 
2009 from her home computer, hours after her supervisor said a customer had complained 
about her work. The expletive-filled posting 
referred to her supervisor using the company’s code for a psychiatric patient. Her remarks at the time drew supportive posts from col-leagues.
Chuck Cohen, a labor and employment 
lawyer and former NLRB member during the Clinton administration, said the case will have employers around the country re-examining 
their Internet policies. But he warned that the 
case doesn’t give employees free rein to dis-cuss anything work-related on social media.
“The line can go over to disloyalty or dis-
closure of truly confidential information,” Co-hen said. “This is not without boundaries, but we just don’t have a good sense yet of where the boundaries are.”Feds settle case of firing 
over Facebook commentsNATIONAL
“The fact that they agreed to revise 
their rules is the most significant 
thing that comes out of this.”
Jonathan Kreisberg
NLRB Regional DirectorNewsOffbeatASSOCIATED PRESS
Why does a photographer cover a war, 
putting himself in harm’s way?
For adventure, by happenstance or to calm 
that front-page fever, answered an illustri-
ous panel of photographers gathered in Paris, 
who covered the Vietnam War. Or more often 
than not, it’s because it’s in the blood.
Henri Huet, an AP photojournalist who 
lost his life in 1971, when the military helicop-ter he was riding in was gunned down over southern Laos, was one of those who “went to war like other people go to work,” said Horst Faas, a Pulitzer Prize-winner who headed the Saigon bureau of The Associated Press from 
1962 to 1974.
“Henri never considered himself a war 
photographer,” said Faas, who was Huet’s 
boss. But “he could really photograph the soul of a GI.”
The comments were made Monday , as a 
group of Vietnam-era photojournalists gath-ered in Paris to launch an exhibit of Huet’s wartime photographs 40 years after his 
death.
During the Vietnam era, helicopters were 
the bane of photographers at war, necessary 
evils that allowed them to move around but left them exposed to gunfire and breakdowns, the panel said.
Today , photojournalists face new perils 
and are unprotected by the technological advances that allow some print reporters to 
cover stories from a distance.
“There isn’t a lens long enough that allows 
a photographer to sit at home and take a pic-
ture,” said Russell Burrows, the son of famed Life photographer Larry Burrows, who was among those killed with Huet.Richard Pyle, a former Saigon bureau 
chief for the AP during the war, said that to-day , “murder has become a primary cause of deaths among working journalists.”
During the Vietnam War, there were no 
“embeds,” journalists implanted with well-armed troops, like those who cover wars today from Iraq to Afghanistan. But neither were there snipers, police or troops targeting journalists — who are being killed today at a far greater rate.
The Paris-based World Association of 
Newspapers and News Publishers says 66 
journalists and media workers were killed 
in 2010 because of their profession — with Mexico and Pakistan the deadliest countries. Journalists worldwide are “targeted for in-vestigating organized crime, drug trafficking, corruption and other crimes,” it said in a re-port last month.
Two journalists have died in recent weeks 
in uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt. An Egyp-
tian reporter from a state-run newspaper was 
shot by a sniper last week while photograph-ing clashes from his balcony . In Tunisia, a French photographer died of his injuries after a tear gas canister struck him as police put down a peaceful demonstration in the capital.
Photographer Olivier Laban-Mattei said 
that despite the dangers, there is no shortage of candidates looking for a spot in conflict 
zones. Many are freelancers, with neither a 
paid plane ticket nor life insurance, he added
Laban-Mattei, 33, was in Tunis working 
beside Lucas Dolega of the EPA agency when his colleague was hit by a tear gas canister Jan. 14. He died three days later.
So why take such risks?For Huet, the AP photographer who lost 
his life while flying over Laos, it was definitely in the blood, his colleagues say.
Still, “Henri knew fear. Henri was afraid of 
getting killed. But he knew how to take care,” said his former boss, Faas. It was helicopters 
that frightened him most.
Nick Ut, photographer of the infamous 
shot of a young Vietnamese girl running na-
ked down a road after a napalm attack, said he knew instantly that his photo would define the horrors of war for the world.
The dead and wounded were the grim fare of wartime, but “I never saw a picture like that. Children. Naked,” said Ut, who began working at the AP at the age of 15 on the ad-vice of his older brother, a photographer killed in southwestern Vietnam’s Mekong Delta.
“We know the job is very dangerous,” he 
said. “But if you don’t see the picture, you don’t see the story.”
The exhibit “Henri Huet, Vietnam” runs 
Wednesday through April 10 at the Maison Europeenne de la Photographie in Paris.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
AP Photo
Associated Press photographer Nick Ut, right, speaks as photographer Christian Simo-
npietri, looks on during a Monday news conference at the Grand Palais CAPE in Paris.
INTERNATIONALVietnam-era journalists see new dangers today  The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Monday’s question: Did you 
think the Super Bowl ads were funny?49% YES51% NO
67 TOTAL VOTESToday’s question: Could you eat an entire pizza in one sitting if you were really hungry?Long Division
It seems counterintui-
tive that a school board would vote to undo a 
policy which led to better schools all over the district. 
In Wake County, N.C., 
that’s what’s happening.
After the plan to inte-
grate schools by income succeeded, five members of the nine-member board voted against what they 
saw as government inter -
ference. 
They said the long bus 
rides needed to diversify schools were a detriment to 
students and that children needed the chance to attend more convenient neighbor -
hood schools.
However, because of the 
disparity of wealth distri-bution by ethnicity, mov-ing these kids back home 
is essentially re-segregating them. 
Such a move robs them 
of the ability to learn about people of other cultures, 
classes and backgrounds. 
A diverse school envi-
ronment is what breeds 
understanding, tolerant 
members of society who can collaborate with nearly anyone. This is the corner -
stone of our workforce and 
our economy.
Besides, if education has 
to boil down to a debate be-
tween convenience and ex-
cellent schools, the choice 
should be clear. 
Denying children the 
best possible schooling to simply to make a politically 
charged anti-government 
statement is unacceptable. 
Here’s to hoping this 
incident won’t become a 
trend.Christina Aguilera’s  mistakes while singing the na-
tional anthem at the Super Bowl made our stom-achs sink. 
Something sounded off about her cadence, but we 
weren’t sure if the words really went in the order we thought. 
Internet searches on the national anthem quickly surged 
by 20-fold, and Americans, having confirmed their suspi-cions of a botched patriotic song, turned back to their tele-vision sets to shake their heads in dismay. 
Sure, we had to check the words, but she’s a singer. 
How could she mess that up?
Cut her some slack. After all, the anthem’s a bizarre 
song. Originally written as a poem, it was set to the music of 
a British drinking song and was established as the national 
anthem in 1931 — rather recently, given its origins during the War of 1812.
Beyond the strange background, spoken language has 
changed in the 200 years since the poem was written. For 
example, the line “o’er the land of the free” can be eas-ily misheard as “or the land of the free”  because we’re singing words no longer used in regular conversation. The words are confusing, and so is the structure. 
In fact, the anthem ends with a question, and, although 
the answer may be obvious, we’ve always wanted to tack an “indeed” on the end of the song.
Some things won’t change: We’ll still have our flag and 
pre-football ritual. And we’ll still be making up words to the anthem.Star-mangled 
banner
Super mistake forgivable
Lending a hand not a reality TV priority
Ah, reality TV . 
No other single entity, with the possible excep-
tion of McDonald’s, has done more to glorify the 
atrocities of American society. We can thank reality TV for 
such gems as “The Real Housewives,” “Teen Mom,” and, 
of course, the ever-classy “Jersey Shore.” For some rea-
son, Americans cannot get enough of the binge drinking, drama causing, sad sacks of society who populate these shows. We know very well they are as far from reality as it gets. 
Still, one area of reality TV has amused me for years, 
ever since I saw my first episode of “True Life: I’m Home-less.” I was originally unable to look away from the des-titute people living in their cars and eating out of Dump-
sters, but it eventually dawned on me that these people 
were not alone; there was a whole camera crew following them around filming their pathetic lives. 
The camera crew wasn’t homeless. The show’s pro-
ducer wasn’t homeless. How then, did these people fol-low around these homeless folks pawning off beer cans for pennies? Did the show’s crew simply film these people and then bid them goodnight while they headed back to their comfortable homes, leaving the homeless under a 
bridge? 
Similarly, what are the ethics behind drug abuse on TV? 
Documentary programs, such as “True Life” and “Inter -
vention,” routinely film folks abusing illegal drugs such 
as heroin and meth. TV viewers get a front row seat as addicts, young and old, bite a belt wrapped around their arm to inject who knows what and act like lunatics while a loyal film crew catches every moment. 
I’m sorry, did everyone forget that these drugs are il-
legal? 
These people are sitting here engaging in activities law 
enforcement officials spend countless hours and resources battling. And in these same documentaries, when women prostitute themselves to obtain the drugs, do producers just sit by and watch the subject ride away into untold possibilities of disease and danger? 
The paradox is almost too 
much. As Americans sit by and 
watch homeless people freeze or 
drug addicts slip into oblivion, all for the benefit of our entertain-ment or, I suppose, dissuasion from doing it ourselves, the people 
we are watching are actually suffering. It’s something that is hardly ever noticed, but when one stops to think about it, what type of heartless people produce and film these shows? The documented are literally killing themselves 
right in front of a camera, and at night the crew goes home 
and sleeps in a comfortable bed, conscience clear of what they’ve seen that day. 
Is it not an obvious reflex to want to help these people? 
Should we not film their miserable shack dwellings and then guide them into a shelter? Or encourage the drug us-ers into rehab? 
How inhumane are we to film prostitution, drug abuse, 
theft, or any array of illegal activities just for the benefit of 
television, only to leave the people as we found them? 
I know nothing about the industry, but perhaps there 
is some sort of positive compensation. That theory isn’t 
supported by the “True Life: Where Are They Now?” epi-sode I saw the other day where the crew caught up with a mother and daughter still living in their car. How noble of them to again find and film people who are still in a desperate situation. 
As crazy as America is, I think these types of shows 
exemplify how insincere the American TV industry is. We, the viewers who indulge in these shows, are not much bet-ter.
Laura Ellermeyer is a first-year finance major. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Laura Ellermeyer
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Teacher unions help the community
It would take a forum longer than a let-
ter to the editor to correct the half-truths and 
mischaracterizations in Zack Smith’s editorial 
about teacher unions. 
Teacher unions have taken unpopular po-
litical positions in recent years? You mean po-
sitions such as securing funding at the state 
level for schools and higher education? 
Or the stance that Tallahassee should stop 
meddling in education or calling for more 
standardized testing without allowing local school boards to make decisions appropriate 
for its own schools? 
Teacher unions are important and effective 
not only in this advocacy for students, but 
also because educators with secure employ-
ment are better, more effective educators. 
Moreover, the collective bargaining agree-
ments negotiated among unions and school 
boards provide procedures for removing bad teachers. Everyone talks about bad, ineffec-
tive teachers, but no one ever talks about bad 
administrators who don’t use these proce-dures to remove bad teachers. 
Also, Smith must be living in a completely 
different universe if he thinks teacher unions have a monopoly on government in the state of Florida. The legislature has been unfriend-ly to education in this state for several years now by handing down more and more budget 
cuts, and with Gov. Rick Scott and the incom-
ing legislature it will be more of the same and worse. Universities, high schools and elemen-tary schools in this state cannot suffer more 
cuts and still provide quality education. 
The teacher unions are one of the few 
groups taking a stand for Florida’s students.Jordan Dominy, Ph.D. student
Co-President of Graduate Assistants 
n n n
Educators don’t deserve so much criticism
Every weekday, my wife is responsible for 
educating more than 100 sixth-graders in an 
Alachua County public middle school. 
For about $30,000 a year, she spends her days  
teaching kids — many of whom have medical or behavioral problems or live in government subsidized housing — and her evenings and 
weekends drafting her lesson plans. She pur -
chases her own school supplies, which often 
includes notebooks and pencils for students who cannot afford their own, and buys into a health care package which takes a substantial 
chunk of cash out of her biweekly paycheck. 
Imagine my surprise when Zack Smith in-
dicted her in the pages of the Alligator simply 
because she is a dues-paying member of the 
local teachers union.
Rather than criticize disinterested parents 
or clueless legislators, Smith heaps the blame 
on those individuals who choose to serve the public by educating our country’s children 
and at the same time want to have some kind 
of power over their employment and the work environment. 
It baffles me why anyone would criticize 
workers before turning a critical eye to their bosses, but it is particularly appalling to see  Smith’s broad condemnation of some of our society’s most underpaid and under-appreci-ated civil servants.
Matt Mingus
UF studentLetters to the Editor
When the Academy of 
Motion Picture Arts and Sciences released 
this year’s list of Oscar nomina-tions two weeks ago, the general response went something like this:
“The Oscars are crap. I mean, 
they didn’t even nominate Chris-topher Nolan for ‘Inception!’ What were they thinking?”
What are they ever thinking?
With any awards show, you 
are bound to have some omis-
sions and inclusions that make many people start to scratch their 
heads. 
The Academy is no different.
Unfortunately, the Academy 
catches more grief than most due to the highly publicized nature 
of the awards and the reputation 
they carry. 
These criticisms are not with-
out merit. 
To be fair, though, the Acad-
emy gets many things right with their nominations. 
But when they goof, they goof 
big-time.
For many people, the headlin-
ing snub for the 83rd Academy Awards is the omission of Chris-topher Nolan from the list of five 
nominees for Achievement in Di-
recting. 
When I ask people what makes 
a director “good,” most say that “vision” — however defined — is 
the number one trademark of a 
good director. 
If they are correct, it is hard to 
argue with their outcry over No-
lan’s snub.
There were few movies or di-
rectors this year with better vi-
sion than “Inception.” 
Unfortunately, when I look at 
the Academy’s list of nominees, almost all of them are the ones I would include as having such vi-sion. 
In my opinion, it is hard to see 
just which one is guilty of being the “most obviously undeserv-ing” of the bunch.
I will admit I was shocked by 
Nolan’s omission. 
After all, his peers at the Di-
rectors Guild of America nomi-nated him. 
However, I guess in hindsight 
I should not have been too sur -
prised. 
But I must also keep in mind 
that Nolan was not nominated 
for “The Dark Knight” a few 
years ago. 
(It is also thought that the 
film’s Best Picture snub was the 
reason the Academy went to ten 
nominees for Best Picture last year.)
But do you want to know why 
the Academy’s snubbing of “In-
ception” that makes even less 
sense? It includ-
ed omitting Lee Smith 
for Best Film 
Editing. 
Anyone who has seen “Incep-
tion” knows that the last half of the film is crafted with extreme 
intricacy and precision. 
At one point, we witness 
four levels of the same narrative unfolding before us. It’s mind-
blowing.
Smith’s absence is criminal. 
You will not convince me oth-
erwise. 
But “Inception” is not the 
only film getting attention for its snubs.
The award for Best Actor is 
pretty much Colin Firth’s to lose. 
However, in terms of getting 
nominated, the most anguish was had for the fans of Robert Duvall in “Get Low,” Ryan Gos-
ling in “Blue Valentine,” and 
even “Inception” star Leonardo DiCaprio.
Many feel that the spot for 
these three guys went to Javier 
Bardem for “Biutiful.” 
For my money, I would have 
Ryan Gosling take the place of 
Jeff Bridges. 
This pains me greatly, as I am 
a huge fan of Mr. Bridges. 
However, his work for “Crazy 
Heart” last year was much stron-ger. 
(I am not saying that winning 
the previous year should hurt po-tential nominees, though.)
“The Social Network,” despite 
dominating the Golden Globes, failed to see its best performer score a nod. 
While Jesse Eisenberg gives 
one of the year’s finest leading 
performances, Andrew Garfield 
was the actually the anchor of that movie. 
I do not think he would beat 
out Christian Bale (“The Fight-er”), Geoffrey Rush (“The King’s Speech”), or Jeremy Renner (“The Town”), but he deserves a nomi-nation.
I could go on about how “The 
Town” deserves a nod for Best Picture, but that could fill anoth-er whole column. 
And I think that’s the point 
with these Oscar snubs. They in-spire passion about our attitudes toward film. 
They are a reminder that what 
we love about individual films cannot be taken from us, even if they do not get the recognition they deserve.
Who cares in the end whether 
Christopher Nolan gets nominat-ed for his films? 
He should just keep ‘em com-
ing.
Jordan Berry is a student at the 
University of Alabama.Oscar snubs inspire 
debates, love over film UWire
Jordan Berry
UWire
In case you have been living under a rock, the 
Super Bowl was Sunday. I know, that’s not ex-actly a news flash. Of course you knew the Su-
per Bowl was on Sunday. How could you not know this? Even my mom, who hates football for taking up her few basic cable channels on Sundays, knew it was that day of the year.
It is everywhere. It is unavoidable. The Super Bowl has grown to become America’s 
biggest unofficial holiday.
You can’t turn on the TV without commercials 
reminding you to stock up for the big day with food and drinks, and heck, maybe even a new big-screen TV while you’re at it. People you know who couldn’t care less about the game or sport, host par -
ties and now have an excuse to get a little tipsy on an additional day of the year. Grocery and depart-ment stores all have huge displays at their entrances prompting you to pick up stuff you might not have otherwise bought — especially if you are not going to watch the game.
But no, come on. You watched the game, right?Because, although February already has one “of-
ficial” holiday that women love — Valentine’s Day — it now seems that football has grown to become such a beloved American pastime that Super Bowl Sunday has become the true “holiday” in February that is loved by most — including many women.
On the other hand, I think it’s safe to say that Su-
per Bowl Sunday is the only “holiday,” albeit unof-ficial, that most men really get excited about. 
What man doesn’t love a full day of gluttony, beer 
drinking and football, while loudly and unapologet-ically rooting for his favorite team? And, being an athlete myself, I completely understand the nature of the beast, but I have to say, the phenomenal enterprise of the Super Bowl has gotten a little big for its britches.
When ESPN reported the NFL was charging peo-
ple $200 for a ticket just to watch the Super Bowl on a big-screen TV outside of the Cowboys Stadium, or that to simply park one-tenth of a mile from the stadium, it would cost you $990, I couldn’t believe it. But what topped that shocker was the fact that people quickly slurped up the 4,000-some tickets that were on sale with people still waiting in line just to be near the Super Bowl.
What in the world are people thinking? Don’t worry, if you were one of the 4,000 who 
paid to watch the game from outside, you received a Super Bowl XLV commemorative scarf as a sou-venir, along with a performance by the Cowboys cheerleaders.
“Geesh, you’d think it was the coming of Christ,” 
said someone close to me who heard this same in-formation.
I hope you enjoyed the hoopla that lasted the en-
tire week. 
I hope Monday was not too rough of a day back 
to work after all the fun. 
And most of all, I hope that if you wanted to 
spring a small fortune on the Super Bowl, you just bought a new TV and enjoyed it from the comfort of home surrounded by family and friends on your holiday.
I’m sure there is a Hallmark card for this by now, 
but regardless, happy belated Super Bowl Sunday from me to you.
Sheryl Roadcap is a student at Ohio State Univer-
sity. Super Sunday an American holidayUWire
Sheryl Roadcap
UWire8, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011
The State Senate could pass a bill allowing guns on college campuses
safety rules to avoid firearm-related inci-
dents. 
If it passes, copies will be sent to state 
Sen. Steve Oelrich, state Rep. Greg Evers, Florida House Speaker Dean Cannon and Gov. Rick Scott. Meyers will also send it to other student senators in the state for sup-
port.
Baker, who prompted the resolution, 
said violence can happen anywhere and 
under many different circumstances.
The bill will start a chain reaction: Stu-dents will arm themselves for protection, 
frightening other students and faculty who 
will then arm themselves, she said. 
“We all know how discussions in Tur -
lington or classes can become heated and 
out of hand. Think about the danger that 
carrying weapons would bring to those situations,” she said. 
Carly Wilson, student senator and pres-
ident of College Republicans, opposes the 
resolution. College Republicans supports 
the bill in all areas, she said. 
The Second Amendment should not 
stop when students enter campus. How-ever, she said she does respect the senators who are concerned.
“I think that this is the kind of thing the 
Student Senate should be working on. We should be concerned with the bills of the Florida Legislature that are relevant on the UF campus,” Wilson said. 
She plans on speaking out 
against the resolution by ad-dressing the need of guns for safety. 
The things heard on the news are trag-
edies and not the norm, she said. People want to feel safe in their own homes and  when they go on campus. 
These guns are here for a purpose, she 
said. 
“The idea is that now 50,000 students 
are going to be walking around with guns hanging from their belt loops. That’s so un-realistic. The restrictions for the kids that carry are still in place,” she said. 
The resolution will most likely pass be-
cause senators will vote in the way that will best represent their constituents, Wil-son said. The safer route is to approve it 
because the majority of students will feel 
more protected without guns on campus.
GUNS , from page 1
OnCampu sJasmine Earls / Alligator
Nonstop Drip, Drop
Students huddle together at the Rinker Hall bus stop to take cover from the rain Monday. 
Temperatures dropped to 43 degrees and rain fell consistently throughout the day. Today is expected to be sunny with a high of 60 degrees.
ON CAMPUS
By SHELBY GREENE
Alligator Contributing Writer
For those who are stumped on 
what to give their significant other 
for Valentine’s Day, the UF Gators for Wish Kids club has a solution.
From now until Friday, the orga-
nization will hold Kisses for Wish-es, a fundraiser in which students can pre-order valentines for friends 
or loved ones.
The valentines will be $2 each 
and all proceeds will benefit the 
Make-A-Wish Foundation of Cen-tral and Northern Florida, an or -
ganization that grants wishes to children who have life-threatening medical conditions.
The valentines will consist of a 
homemade cookie and a sealed let-ter containing a poem mentioning the Make-A-Wish Foundation, said Lauren Vallario, the club’s presi-dent.  There will be one letter for -
mat for students to send to friends 
and one to send to romantic part-ners, she said.
The club will have tables set up 
for pre-ordering valentines in the 
Reitz Union Colonnade and on Turlington Plaza from 11 a.m. to 
3 p.m. today and Wednesday and 
from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Thursday and Friday, Vallario said.
On Valentine’s Day, the recipi-
ents will receive a text message and e-mail telling them they have a val-entine waiting for them.  They will be able to pick up their gift at the Reitz Colonnade from 11 a.m. to 4 
p.m., she said.
She said students can also 
choose to have a valentine mailed 
to a recipient out of the city for an additional fee to cover mailing costs.
Lauren Wills, the club’s direc-
tor for social media and advertis-ing, said she thinks the event will 
be successful because it is a way 
for students to give gifts to their friends while giving back to the community at the same time.Organization sells 
kisses for wishesTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
n IT WILL BENEFIT LOVE 
WITHOUT BOUNDARIES.
By STYLIANA RESVANIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students interested in running 
for a good cause might want to 
consider joining GatorSOLES, a 
new UF organization. 
The club, whose motto is 
“Sweat, Overcome, Lead, Endure 
and Serve,” aims to provide an 
atmosphere where students can 
workout, socialize and have fun 
while raising money for various 
charities.
The organization is taking 
its first step toward serving the community by participating in the Gator Smiles Fifth Annual 5K 
Cupid Fun Run on Saturday.  
Penelope Kallis, treasurer of 
GatorSOLES, said the proceeds 
will go toward providing cleft 
lip and palate surgeries to un-
derprivileged children through 
Love Without Boundaries and 
to patients and families through 
the UF Craniofacial Center. 
The club will par -
ticipate in its second 
race on Feb. 26 and proceeds will fund the American Heart Asso-ciation. 
Overall, the organization aims 
to stimulate interest in running as a form of fitness.Running club holds 
5K race for charity
OnCampu sBy MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
The economy has been said 
to kill businesses, but it may 
also be shrinking the number 
of Florida shark attacks.
UF’s International Shark 
Attack File annual report, re-
leased Monday, said the num-
ber of shark attacks in the state 
has been decreasing for four years.
In 2007, 31 people were at-
tacked. In 2010, 13 people were attacked.
George Burgess, a regu-lar Discovery Channel guest expert and UF ichthyologist, thinks the economy and the BP oil spill are largely respon-sible for the decrease in attacks 
b e c a u s e they’ve kept people from going to the 
beach.
“You can 
directly tie these activi-ties to the 
number of people in the wa-ter,” he said.
According to the most re-cent study by Visit Florida, a tourism marketing company, statewide tourism increased just 0.6 percent from July to September, as compared to the 
same months in 2009. 
Burgess said the data on the 
attacks was strange this year.
Globally, there were 79 
shark attacks in 2010. That’s more than in previous years  
— almost as many as the all-time high of 80 in 2000.
Despite this, Florida’s num-
bers continue to drop. 
“This is an unusual year in 
Florida,” Burgess said.Sharks bite fewer Floridians
Burgess
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Call today 352-271-3131
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$439 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-
11-25-1
**6 Bedroom House**
Walk to class. Pool. 2 Living Rooms.
Game Room. 3 Bathrooms.
Lease begins August 5.
Please call 561-866-8234 for further info.
2-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, 
fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term 
available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-11114-20-10-70-2        2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!
·         Available NOW and August!
·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com
4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning
.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 10-2  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet Friendly
Prem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-2SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-16-
10-40-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$439
2/1 *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-18-11-20-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $9993/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089Garage included, Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $5501 year lease, SD, NS, NPCall/Text 352-870-7256gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-19-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-14-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-14-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
****  HOUSE 4BR/2BA  ****
Avail 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, bike to UF. 
NO Pets. Drive by 3532 NW 7th Ave, pick up flyer. $1200/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645    2-18-11-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-
11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-21BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 
15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-
yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, big 
yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D provided. 
Fireplace in living room & game room w/ bar 
area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo. 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2--8-11-4-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No 
pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus 
routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   
2-21-11-14-2
Summer Place
One Bedroom *$439
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-49-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   2-18-11-10-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF***48 Hour Special***352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$360-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 orjfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-634-1893. Available immediately.   2-14-10-4
1 or 2 male roommates needed. 2BRs avail 
in 3BR/2BA house. Close to UF campus, on bus route, large fenced-in backyard. Cent H/AC, pets welcome. $400/mo + elec. Call 561-706-5378    2-15-11-10-4
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 11
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-1292 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      2-11-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-1412, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
2-15-10-35-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp 
runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   3-16-20-14HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-16-25-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, 
Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, 
clean building, very minor mechanical, hours
1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]
12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   
11-20-11-5-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, 
phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resume
afn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.
2-8-11-7-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced full/part time.
Some weekends & holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
2-9-11-7-14.
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications 
using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small 
company in G’ville, great work environment. 
About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   
2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks 
P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, 
monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. 
About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   
2-25-11-17-14
NANNY NEEDED   25-30hrs/wk; $12/hr
3 kids:  infant to 7yrs;   M-F 2-8pm
clean bkkg; exp + refs; long term commit;
email resume, sched, pix, + hello to
NOAH'S ARK NANNY: gnv@nanoneone.com    
2-10-11-5-14
ATTENTION SMOKERS!!!
Smokers are needed to participate in a study
assessing the effects of various activities
on smoking. Compensation provided.
336-406-3706 or uflsmokelab@gmail.com
2-15-7-14
Summer Camp Counselors Needed
Trail's End & Chestnut Lake Camps - PAGuaranteed Experience of a Lifetime; Limited 
openings for Sports Specialists, Crafts 
Specialists, Lifeguards & Bunk Counselors; 
June 17th - August 14th 
Gain experience working with kids. SUBMIT AN ONLINE APPLICATION NOW! 
www.trailsendcampjobs.com   2-18-11-10-
14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE 
NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + in-centives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   2-18-11-10-14
Gator Dining Services, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, has an imme-
diate opening for experienced cooks.
 
We offer flexible schedules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can 
apply online at www.gatordining.com or 
in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.   
2-14-11-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
If you witnessed a collision between a Publix 
truck (semi/tractor-trailer) and a pick-up truck on August 23, 2010 at the Publix located at SW 34th Street and University Ave, please call (352) 240-9006. REWARD.2-16-11-7-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
CHOW NOW FOOD TRUCKTuesdays 11am till 1:30pm
Behind Emerson Hall2-8-11-2-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
WANTED: Singers/Rappers. Win $100,000 
Production Deal from YOUNG JEEZY'S DJ. Win FREE AUDITION: SAT FEB 12th @ Paramount Plaza 2900 SW 13th St 10am. Bring a demo. Info: 305-814-0247   2-11-11-5-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
3 Year Old Female Black Lab, Weimaraner 
mix. Spade and chipped. Great hunting in-stinct. Free to good home. Evenings 352-376-7353.   2-8-11-5-24
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITY
WHY PAY MORE? 371 9696
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants who qualify & wish to participate in research will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 13
Sports
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n THE SENIOR’S NUMBERS HAVE 
REGRESSED THIS SEASON.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
When Alex Tyus decided to withdraw 
his name from the NBA Draft and return 
to Florida following his junior season, his 
play was expected to take a considerable step forward. 
Tyus averaged 11.8 points and tied for a 
team high with 6.9 rebounds per contest in 2009-10, but the forward appears to have taken a step back. 
He is currently the only starter not av-
eraging double figures in scoring, and his 
8.8 points and 5.0 rebounds per game are 
his lowest since he was a freshman.  
Although ESPN’s Chad Ford and Andy 
Katz said last offseason that Tyus should 
return to school or risk going undrafted, 
his regression as a senior is noticeable to even his strongest supporters.
But performances like his second half 
against Kentucky on Saturday — when 
Tyus had eight points, three rebounds and 
two blocks — provide flashes of what he is truly capable of. 
“That’s the Alex we know,” senior for -
ward Chandler Parsons said. “That’s the Alex we want to play for 40 minutes every 
game. He’s a great player and he’s helped 
us all year long, but the way he played in the second half was unbelievable.”
Teammates, coaches and fans have seen 
what Tyus can do when he is at the top of his game, but there have been few signals to how well the senior will play on a given night.   
Saturday’s game proved to be a micro-
cosm of his inconsistency. 
Tyus scored six points in the first four 
POLL RESULTS UF BASKETBALL NEWS BRISSETT SIGNS LOI alligatorSports Podcast
Previous question:  
How would you grade the Florida football team’s 2011 recruiting class? Percent (Votes)
B 70% (53)
C 16% (12)
A 12% (9)
F 3% (2)
D 0% (0)
76 TOTAL VOTESn Tom Green and the Gainesville Sun’s Ed As -
choff join host Adam Berry to discuss Florida’s 2011 prospects, evaluate Will Muschamp’s first class and discuss the highs and lows of cover-ing recruiting. Check it out on iTunes.n Senior Chandler Parsons was 
named Southeastern Confer-ence Player of the Week on Monday, and the Gators are now ranked No. 17 in the AP Poll.n Quarterback Jacoby Brissett, 
who orally committed to UF on Friday, signed and faxed his national letter of intent to the Gators on Monday.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida senior forward Alex Tyus has seemingly regressed in his fourth season after flirting with the idea of leaving for the NBA following his junior year. 
Tyus struggling with inconsistency
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org 
 
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan’s baseball ap-
proach relies on good pitching supported 
by solid defense.   
Enter Austin Maddox, a potential hin-
drance to this philosophy .  
The sophomore slugger and reigning 
Southeastern Conference Freshman of 
the Year is Florida’s best returning hitter, 
but the third baseman also happens to 
be the weak link in the field at a position 
where balls are hit the hardest. 
After he led the team in hits, home 
runs and RBIs, there is little concern over the possibility Maddox will experience 
a sophomore slump. Instead, questions linger whether he can man the hot corner 
for a full season. 
A year after playing 
29 games at third base and leading the team with 12 errors, Maddox 
has committed himself 
to getting in shape and 
developing as an infielder. 
“He has been determined since the 
summer on to make himself the best de-fensive third basemen he can,” O’Sullivan said. “His body has changed. He dedicat-
ed himself in the offseason to get better 
defensively, and he’s done great so far.”
Maddox started the season as Flori-
da’s designated hitter and backup first baseman during the 2010 campaign. But 
after Bryson Smith went down with a fin-
ger injury , Maddox moved to a position he had not played since the ninth grade. 
Formerly a standout high school 
catcher, the experience was trial by fire for the Freshman All-American.  
Overwhelmed and admittedly ner -
vous, Maddox had three days to relearn the position before his debut against 
Florida Gulf Coast midway through the 
2010 season.
O’Sullivan acknowledged Maddox 
was placed in a difficult situation, “but he 
handled it great,” he said.   
While his handling of the transition 
went well, his adaptation to his new 
position was mixed. In the 29 games he Maddox 
adjusting to hot corner
By MELISSA PENDER
Alligator Writer
 
Watching Elizabeth Beisel 
fiercely take down the com-
petition as she swims to first place in the 200-yard back-
stroke against Tennessee, 
it’s hard to imagine her as a funny, sweet 18-year-old who loves to joke around with her teammates on the Florida swimming and diving team.
But that’s what makes Bei-
sel special. One minute, she seems to be flying across the pool; the next, she is just an-other college freshman hav-ing fun with her friends.
Coach Gregg Troy said Bei-
sel brings a lot of experience to the team, but what’s more important is her attitude.
“She‘s very light, lots of fun, lot of smiles, lot of gig-
gles,” he said. “[She] kind of ce-ments the 
team to-
gether.”
B e i s e l , 
a Rhode 
Island na-
tive, has plenty of reasons to smile. At 13, she was on the U.S. 
national team as one of the 
nation’s top 40 swimmers. At 
15, she placed fourth in the 200-meter individual med-ley and fifth in the 200-meter backstroke as the youngest member of the U.S. Olympic team in Beijing. 
At 16, she won the bronze 
Beisel reveling in first-year success
Beisel
Baseball
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 16
SEE BASE, PAGE 15
SEE SWIM, PAGE 15UF SWIMMINGTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
n THE GATORS WILL TAKE ON NO. 25 USF, 
NO. 5 UNC AND NO. 6 DUKE THIS WEEK.
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
While some teams might be too highly ranked to 
start the season, the No. 2 Florida women’s tennis 
team makes sure to earn its ranking.
The Gators (4-0) have a history of going out of 
their way to schedule highly ranked opponents, as 
exemplified by the team’s upcoming schedule.
UF will take on No. 25 USF today at 5 p.m. at 
Linder Stadium at Ring Tennis Complex before go-
ing on a tough road trip at No. 5 North Carolina and No. 6 Duke this weekend.
Last spring, the Gators had a similar schedule, 
playing an astounding 25 ranked teams throughout the course of the season. 
Of those 25 matches, the Gators only lost twice — 
to No. 3 Northwestern and No. 12 UCLA both at the ITA National Team Indoor Championships.
After tearing through a tough conference sched-
ule, UF made a deep run in the NCAA Tournament before falling to No. 8 Stanford in the NCAA Finals.
This year’s schedule has been no different, as the 
Gators already playing three ranked teams, but the team will face its first true challenges this week.
“We’re playing teams who actually think they can 
beat us now,” coach Roland Thornqvist said.
With his team taking on its first top-25 opponents 
this season, Thornqvist said his team would have to 
take care of the little things in order to 
come out unscathed.
“When you’re playing teams of this 
quality in the early season, the little 
things matter more and more,” Thorn-qvist said. 
Ultimately, he said, the Gators schedule these 
teams to find out how good they really are. Play-ing UNC and Duke will help Thornqvist’s team get ready for the ITA National Indoor Championships, 
which kick off on Feb. 18.
Before that, though, the Gators will have to take 
care of business at home against the Bulls, who have 
only lost at then-No. 13 Georgia Tech.
“We’ve just got to take care of the Gators,” 
Thornqvist said. “That’s always the most important thing.”UF learning from ranked foes
played at third, Maddox was 
pulled for a defensive replace-
ment 20 times. 
Despite holding the low-
est fielding percentage of any 
Gators regular a season ago, 
Maddox and O’Sullivan have 
gone full steam ahead with his newfound position. 
With the help of UF trainers 
and Paul Chandler, the baseball strength and conditioning coor -
dinator, Maddox has lost 10 to 
15 pounds and improved his flexibility , first-step quickness 
and agility . 
The sophomore said he has 
taken over 100 ground balls ev-ery day since the summer. 
“I’ve done a great job at 
changing my diet, and it’s re-ally paid off,” he said. “I want 
to stay over there [third base]. I 
feel comfortable over there and 
I’ve gotten a lot better over there 
just working my butt off.”
“He’s worked awfully hard 
and deserves a lot of credit,” 
O’Sullivan said. “We feel real 
comfortable with him right 
now.”Sophomore hopes extra 
work, conditioning pay off
BASE , from page 14
Four-time SEC Swimmer of the Week aims to make 2012 Olympic team
medal in the 200 back at the FINA 
(Fédération Internationale de 
Natation, or International Swim-
ming Federation) World Champi-
onships in Rome. Last year at the 
Pan Pacific Championships, she took home two gold medals in the 400 IM and the 200 back.
Beisel said the Pan Pac is her 
favorite swimming memory to date.
“I had always been sort of sec-
ond or third behind people, and for me to finally go to the top for 
once was really cool,” she said. “It 
was a great setup for coming into 
this year, too.”
This year has brought her col-
legiate success in and out of the pool. She has earned a 3.7 GPA in addition to swimming top times, 
earning NCAA qualification in 
the 200 free, 500 free, 100 back, 
200 back, 200 fly and the 200 and 
400 IM. Beisel also helped her re-lay teams qualify in the 200 free-style and 400 medley.
Beisel has earned the South-eastern Conference Female Swim-
mer of the Week honor four times, 
the most by a freshman in SEC 
history. She also won her third 
straight Rhode Island Female Athlete of the Year award on Jan. 31.“It means so much to me that 
Rhode Island has been behind me 
the entire time,” she said. “It’s 
cool to see that they’re still fol-lowing not only me, but swim-ming as well.”
Beisel was recently named to 
the 2011 FINA World Champion-
ship team along with teammates 
Conor Dwyer and Teresa Crippen. 
They will travel to Shanghai with 
Troy, who is an assistant coach for the team, in summer 2011.
She hopes to make the 2012 
Olympic team and find success in London, but she will first look to 
help her team succeed at the SEC 
Championships, hosted by Flori-
da later this month. She will also reach for personal success at the NCAA Championships in March.
In the meantime, Beisel is just 
doing what she does best: train-
ing hard, striving for success and 
always having a good time.
“I’m just trying to enjoy it now, 
taking in the whole college expe-
rience,” she said.  “It’s all really new to me. It’s all sort of a cool experience.” SWIM , from page 14“I’m just trying to enjoy it 
now, taking in the whole 
college experience.”
Elizabeth Beisel
UF freshman swimmerTennis16, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2011
Senior forward’s production relies on ability to hit first shot
minutes of the second period. With 1:11 left, 
he capped off the night with a clutch turn-around jumper as Florida led by one.  
The senior even displayed the physical at-
tributes necessary to be a quality defender.
“He might be the fastest guy on the team 
just running from end to end,” junior guard 
Erving Walker said. “He’s quick, he’s long 
and he’s athletic, so we expect him to be there to guard guys like (Kentucky freshman Ter -rence) Jones.”
Tyus has occasionally shown flashes of 
greatness this season, but the senior has also played stretches like his first half against the Wildcats, in which he failed to score and grabbed just one rebound.
This trend has been present on a larger 
scale as well, as Tyus has scored 18 or more points in three games and failed to record more than two points in four contests. 
According to coach Billy Donovan, the dif-
ference between Tyus’ good days and his bad days is simply his ability to make shots.
Gators frontcourt players have scored 
UF’s first points 19 times in 23 games, and Donovan has been adamant that scoring inside early on is the key to opening up the outside. 
Florida has consistently made an effort to 
get Tyus involved, finding him for a shot in the opening three minutes in all but four of his 22 starts. 
Tyus has taken UF’s first shot and scored 
the team’s first points eight times, likely be-cause of the effect this can have on his pro-duction. Tyus averages 11 points and 5.5 re-
bounds in games where he hits his first shot 
but just 6.1 points and 4.3 rebounds in games where he misses his opening look.  
“You always feel like you’re in the flow 
of the game when the ball is going in the 
basket,” Donovan said. “That’s an area that 
Alex has got to get better at, because he hasn’t scored a lot, hasn’t shot the ball but he’s still athletic enough that he can do other things to 
really help the team.”
HOOPS , from page 14
1 5
Kentucky (16-6, 4-4 SEC)
After two tough losses on the road this week, Wildcats fans were so depressed they left the O’Dome on Saturday night wondering which ho -
tel Charlie Sheen was partying at. 2
 6
3
Mississippi (15-8, 3-5 SEC)
If the Commodores are the model decent SEC team, the Rebels fall somewhere between average and terrible: one great player, one wild coach (watch out, taxi drivers), one lucky win.
LSU (10-13, 2-6 SEC)
Despite such a ravenous fan base, this is quite possibly the most bor -
ing team in the country in all the  major conferences. 11
4
South Carolina  (13-8, 4-4 SEC) 
Coach Darrin Horn easily could be
misidentified for someone on NBC’s “To Catch a Predator.” With DevanDowney long gone, there’s really nothing to say about this team. 8
Auburn (8-15, 1-8 SEC)
Somehow took Georgia to the brink, but lost in overtime. They’re about as close to being a good team as Christina Aguilera was to actually singing the national anthem.12alligatorSports Southeastern Conference Power Poll
Tennessee  (15-8, 5-3 SEC)
Went 1-1 this past week after a tough 
home loss in OT. On a lighter note, 
Phil Simms threatened to beat up 
Desmond Howard for talking trash about Simms’ son and current Volun-teers backup quarterback, Matt.
Vanderbilt (16-6, 4-4 SEC)
Quintessential decent SEC team: nice players, nice coach, no idea how good they really are.Florida (18-5, 7-2 SEC)Which was nastier: Chandler Par -
sons’ schoolyard, volleyball style 
spike on a poor former walk-on 
Saturday night, or the weather in 
America the last five days?
Alabama (15-7, 7-1 SEC)
Faster double take: the Tide’s SEC record or Joan Rivers in a GoDad -
dy.com commercial?Georgia (16-6, 5-4 SEC)
Despite not playing particularly well, coach Mark Fox’s Hounds went 2-0 this week against West foes. That feat is comparable to beating the armless man in a fight in one of the “Monty Python” movies.Arkansas  (14-8, 4-5 SEC)
IUPUI has a higher RPI than the 
Razorbacks, and they have the third-highest RPI in their division at 108. In a related story, the West is terrible this year.Mississippi State (12-10, 4-4 SEC) 
Twitter strikes again! Ravern Johnson was suspended for publicly criticizing his coach. Renardo Sidney retweeted Johnson’s comments without reprisal. Looks like Will Hill’s Twitter-hackin’ nemesis is up to no good again.
7109
Rosa Taveras and Jesse Simonton / Alligator Staff