We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 29 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgValentine’s paper hearts re-appear in Vermont’s capital 
MONTPELIER, Vt. — Vermont’s state 
capital is aflutter in hearts again.
In keeping with a mysterious Valen-
tine’s Day tradition, an unknown person 
or people plaster sheets of paper with red hearts on them all over downtown offices, shops and buildings.
The so-called Valentine’s Bandit start-
ed the tradition in Montpelier in 2002. 
Each year, residents wake up to find the red hearts affixed to buildings, shop windows and other downtown fixtures.
The “phantom” has his — or her — 
own Facebook page, dubbed the Montpe-lier Valentine Phantom Phan Page.
Appreciative fans took to Facebook 
on Monday. 
One thanked the Phantom for making 
her drive to work wonderful.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSn  Florida fresh -
man guard Scottie 
Wilbekin (right) has 
developed into one 
of the Gators’ top 
defenders, most 
recently shutting 
down Tennessee’s 
Scotty Hopson on 
Saturday. 
See Story, Page 13.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
Michael Pirie died Saturday trying to 
save his club president and friend. 
Grant Lockenbach, the president of 
UF’s Fellowship of Christian Athletes, 
was climbing down to get a bag full of 
ropes that had fallen 125 feet during a 
cave exploration in northwest Georgia when his rope got tangled. 
Pirie went down into the cave to help 
Lockenbach but both eventually died of hypothermia.
Pirie’s dad, Brent Pirie, said Locken-
bach was his son’s role model, so when he got stuck in the cave, his son knew 
what he had to do.
“I know that the greatest thing you 
can do is lay down your life,” Pirie’s fa-
ther said. “He saw a need, that a brother was in trouble, and he went to provide comfort. I wish there would have been a better outcome.”
Pirie and Lockenbach, 18 and 20 
respectively , were exploring Ellison’s Cave with a group of eight friends, said David Ashburn, director of emergency services for Walker County, Ga.
Near the mouth of the cave, someone 
dropped the bag, and Lockenbach rap-pelled down to get it.
He’d been trained to rappel out of 
helicopters.
“The first person to volunteer for 
something was always him,” said David Hassan, a UF Army ROTC cadet ser -
geant who trained with Lockenbach. 
Halfway down, Ashburn said, Lock-
enbach’s ropes tangled. A 40-degree waterfall poured onto his helmet and soaked his T-shirt and shorts.
He called for help, and Pirie rap-
pelled down on the same rope.
“That’s something that he would 
do,” said Matt Seldine, who taught Pirie in the UF Drumline. 
Seldine said Pirie always thought of 
others before himself.
“It was just who he was,” he said.Ashburn said Pirie got stuck on the 
rope right above Lockenbach. After half an hour, their cries for help grew faint and stopped. 
Walker County Sheriff Steve Wilson 
said that hypothermia can start to set in 
after 15 minutes.
Their friends went back to their cars 
and called 911 at 2:19 p.m. Phones and 
radios don’t work in Ellison’s Cave, Ashburn said.
Emergency responders reached the 
men about an hour later, but they had already passed. Their bodies were re-moved from the rope around 10 p.m. 
Friends said that a small condolence 
is that they didn’t suffer. Both men were Christians, and many of their friends and family have found solace in faith.
Pirie, a marketing freshman from 
Sunny
69/47
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13
Courtesy to the Alligator
Left image: Grant Lockenbach caving, photo taken from his Facebook page. Right image: Michael Pirie poses after 
his 2010 graduation from Lake Highland Preperatory School.
Family, friends mourn deaths
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida legislature’s warning shot regarding 
a bill that would allow guns on college campuses 
has caused a commotion at UF. 
The University Police Department and Student 
Government have voiced concerns about a bill pro-
posed in the Florida Senate that would allow those 
with concealed weapons permits to carry their guns on campus.
The intent of the legislation is to protect students 
from dangerous situations by allowing them to car -
ry guns for self-defense.
Currently, no one — with the exception of po-
lice officers — is allowed to carry guns on college campuses in Florida.
Students are not even permitted to have guns in 
their cars parked on campus.
UPD spokesman Cpt. Jeff Holcomb said one of 
his concerns is students will feel less safe on cam-pus. 
“We don’t want our students coming here 
thinking the Wild West is allowed in the state of Florida,” he said. 
Holcomb said the department is hoping the bill 
will not pass through the Senate. He added that there is no plan for what the department might do differently if the bill does pass.
UF administration declined to comment on the 
issue.
The Student Senate voted 52-17 
on Feb. 8 to pass a resolution against allowing guns on campus.
Senate President and candidate for Student 
Body President Ben Meyers, a member of the Unite Party, co-sponsored the resolution against the bill.
Despite supporting the bill’s principle of Second 
Amendment rights, Meyers said after seeing cam-pus leaders and police departments unanimously oppose the legislation, he would join them in stand-ing against it.
However, if the bill passes, Meyers said he 
would carry a firearm on campus.
Meyers said the fear on campus is an increase in 
crimes of passion, much like Monday’s shooting at Middle Tennessee State University , which stemmed from an argument outside a school building.
Dave Schneider, the Progress Party candidate 
for Student Body president, voiced his opposition to guns on campus at the meeting and continues to voice his concern with the legislation.
“You create a gun culture on campus, where I 
really don’t think it has a place,” he said. “We’re supposed to be here to learn.”Gun debate 
presses on
SEE OBITUARY, p AgE 8
NewsStateLoved ones find solace in faithNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 29 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Spencer Christen,  
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
PARTLY
CLOUDY
75/50PARTLY
CLOUDY
75/50SUNNY
74/51PARTLY
CLOUDY
71/48SUNNY
69/47
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Get Your Mind Right
Today, 7 p.m.Ustler Hall 2nd floorThis Black Woman’s Image 
Initiative session will ad-
dresses the importance of 
psychological issues, how to 
go about seeking help, how to 
recognize symptoms and how 
to become healthy inside and 
out.
Community Advocates’ 
Roommate MixerToday, 7 p.m.
Graham Gallery
Come to the Roommate Mixer 
to meet some new people or even a potential roommate. 
There will be free food. To 
RSVP or for event details, look for the Facebook event, 
CA Roommate Mixer. This 
event is sponsored by the 
Community Advocates and 
UF’s Office of Off Campus Life.
Beta Bring it On 2011
Today, 6 p.m.
Phillips Center for Performing 
Arts
The Beta Theta Pi fraternity 
will be holding a cheerlead-
ing competition between all 
16 UF Panhellenic sorori-ties. The competition will be 
benefiting the Alzheimer’s Association and the Thomas 
Oliver Brown Memorial Scholarship Foundation. The cost of admission is $10 and 
the event will be broadcast on 
WLUF-TV .early for pizza. For more in-formation and updates, go to 
psych.ufl.edu/~psichi 
A Spring of Hope
Thursday, 6:15 p.m.
Matherly Hall Room 14
The UF chapter of A Spring 
of Hope, a non-profit orga-
nization, is having its first 
meeting of the semester. Free pizza will be served. For 
more information about the 
organization go to aspringof-
hope.org 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an e-mail with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alligator.
org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper.RISK Cinema Film Screening 
by Phil Solomon
Today, 7 p.m. 
Harn Museum of Art 
Phil Solomon transforms 
original and found foot-age in the exploration of 
personal realms, collective 
memory and experience. 
Admission is $5 for the pub-
lic and free for members. 
PEM Debate on Health Care 
Legislation
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m.
Reitz Union Room 276Pre-Med AMSA’s Politics 
and Ethics in Medicine 
(PEM) is having its first de-
bate on health care reform, 
specifically whether the U.S. 
should adopt a single-payer system. Please e-mail pem@
ufpremed.org to RSVP .
Psychology Club & Psi Chi 
MeetingWednesday, 7:20 p.m.
Little Hall Room 101
The group will be discuss-
ing the interviewing pro-
cess for getting into gradu-
ate school. This is the last 
meeting to turn in dues and donations for the Arbor 
House. As always, come 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
n THE MEMORIAL WILL BE COMPLETED 
SOMETIME THIS YEAR.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW YORK — The Sept. 11 memorial will 
open in the World Trade Center’s footprints by the 
10th anniversary of the 2001 attacks, but for years 
afterward access will be limited to a set number 
of people and mourners will be surrounded on all 
sides by the noise of construction, the memorial foundation president said Monday.
It will be years before the millions of people 
who want to visit the center have unfettered access 
to the memorial site, said Joe Daniels, president of 
the National September 11 Memorial & Museum. 
Ultimately, visitors will be able to approach the 
memorial and its green spaces and cobblestoned 
plazas from all sides. But for years visitors will be 
surrounded by construction of skyscrapers and a transit hub and may only use one entrance, and organizers will observe strict capacity limits for 
safety reasons, Daniels said.
“We are planning to use a free, timed reser -
vation system,” Daniels said. “Visitors will plan 
their trip to the memorial in advance by reserving a pass for a specific date for a specific time.”
Preliminary plans call for a limit of 1,500 visi-
tors at a time, with special consideration being given to the relatives of Sept. 11 victims. Visitors will have to sign up online for available spots and 
print out their free tickets.
The foundation president, who presented de-
tails of the opening to a downtown Manhattan 
community board on Monday night, said that the first public visitors to the site would get spectacu-lar views of the rebuilding.
“When they look around, they are going to 
be seeing, column by column, floor by floor, the 
World Trade Center site being rebuilt,” Daniels 
told The Associated Press on Monday . “It’s the front-row seat of seeing the tallest building in the United States built.”
The 1,776-foot 1 World Trade Center, formerly 
known as the Freedom Tower, is being built just northwest of the memorial site and won’t open 
until 2013. Hundreds of trees will still need to be 
planted, and cobblestones will need to be filled in 
to the 8-acre memorial plaza after Sept. 11, 2011. A 
transit hub is under construction at the site until at least 2015, along with at least one other skyscraper planned for the site. 
The first visitors from the public will be al-
lowed in on Sept. 12, the day after a 10th anniver -
sary ceremony at the site for victims’ families and other invited guests.
The “vast majority” of the 4 million to 5 mil-
lion visitors expected to visit the memorial the 
first year are expected to get in, Daniels said.Sept. 11 site to limit access
By BRITNEY GUERTIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville resident Drew 
Drechsel will be sitting in Moth-
er’s Pub and Grill today, watch-
ing himself on G4’s premiere of “Jump City: Seattle.”
The show, which features four 
teams competing head-to-head 
to become the first-ever Parkour 
championship team, will debut at 8 p.m. 
According to Drechsel, the 
show will run for eight weeks, and in each episode, two teams will compete. There will be a speed round consisting of a relay through an obstacle course and a 
style round, in which team mem-bers get 45 seconds each to show 
off their best moves anywhere on the course. In each round, only 
three of the four team members 
compete. 
Drechsel, who is a member of 
team Rogue, has been doing Park-
our for about five years. 
According to americanpark-
our.com, Parkour is “the physical 
discipline of train-
ing to overcome 
any obstacle with-
in one’s path by 
adapting one’s movements to the environment,” and it’s more than 
just a sport to Drechsel. 
“It’s the right to do what you 
want. To compete against your -
self,” he said.Parkour competition 
to feature local man
NewsNationalTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Eriess Davis didn’t want a tra-
ditional wedding: No conserva-
tive music and rows of unfamiliar guests. She wanted A Little White Chapel, in glitzy Las Vegas.
Wearing a mini-dress, Davis 
marched with her boyfriend, clad in black jeans, through a set of gold elevator doors, and into a waiting room where they could buy garters, memory books and bride and groom baseball caps.
For her, Valentine’s Day 2011 was 
the perfect date.
“It’s the day of love,” said Davis, 
23, as she and Matthew Jacobs, 23, waited for a minister.
It may be. But there’s not much 
of it going around these days for wedding chapels in a city known for quickie marriages. There’s a love re-cession in Las Vegas.
Fewer than 92,000 couples mar -
ried in or around Sin City in 2010. 
Nevada wedding professionals 
and officials insist the decline is not a reflection of Las V egas’ waning popularity. Instead, they blame the foul economy and the ebbing inter -
est in marriage.
“The volume is down,” said Joni 
Moss, founder of the Nevada Wed-
ding Association. “The number 
speaks for itself. And people are just spending less.”
In Nevada, 85 percent of all mar -
riages start in Clark County, which includes Las V egas, and almost five percent of all marriages in the U.S. are held near the Las V egas Strip’s neon marquees and smoky gam-bling halls.
Marriages peaked in Clark Coun-
ty in 2004, when 128,250 couples tied the knot. Fewer people said “I do” in each subsequent year.Local govern-
ments, which issue marriage licens-
es, are feeling the effects.
Clark County made more than 
$7 million at the peak in 2004. Last year, wedding-related revenue fell to roughly $5.5 million. “It is a major part of the tourism,” 
County Clerk Diana Alba said.
To help offset declining revenue, 
Alba’s office stopped offering 24-hour wedding licenses in 2006, she said.
“The marriage demographic is 
aging,” she said. “The baby boomer generation is all getting old. Mar -
riage goes in and out of fashion and I think right now it is not as fashion-
able to get married.”In good years, weddings pump 
$643 million into the local economy , said Alicia Malone, a spokeswoman 
with the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority . 
To make up for the wedding 
downturn, chapels are encouraging couples to renew their vows and promoting commitment ceremonies for gay grooms and brides.
At Viva Las V egas Wedding 
Chapel, business was up 20 percent in 2010 compared with 2009 partly because of the chapel’s outreach to 
already married couples, said Brian 
Mills, general manager.
The chapel offers the kind of 
wedding frills Las V egas is famous for: couples can get married by “Alice Cooper,” “Tom Jones,” and “Marilyn Monroe.” 
In the most popular package, 
the bride can roll down the aisle in 
a vintage 1964 pink Cadillac driven 
by an Elvis Presley-lookalike. 
But there’s only so many ways 
chapels can try to offset the marriage crash.
The national marriage rate has 
been on the skids since at least 2004, according to data from the Pew Re-search Center and the Census.The 
Pew survey says marriages are on 
the decline among all groups, espe-cially low-income couples. In 1960, two-thirds of all 20-somethings were married. Only 26 percent were in 2008.
The lure of Las V egas wedding 
has long been tied to the state’s streamlined wedding laws. Neither blood tests nor waiting periods are required in the city and marriage 
licenses can be had between 8 a.m. 
and midnight.
“We figured since we were com-
ing here for vacation, we might as well get married,” said Joe Schie-bert, 50, who wed Christina Schie-bert, 42, on Valentine’s Day in Las 
Vegas. The couple was visiting from 
Oklahoma.
“It’s an easy day to remember,” 
she said.4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011
AP Photo
Becky Kulak, second from right, talks on the phone with her new father-in-law after marrying Jeff Kulak, 
right, as Becky and Jason Kucera wait their turn to be married at the Little White Wedding Chapel.
NATIONALLas Vegas wedding chapels deal with love recession By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
Before a flower-covered arch in 
Smathers Library, Juan and Casey 
joined hands on Monday afternoon and were married as valentines.
The minister, the Rev. Jim Mer -
ritt, asked the men if they were de-voted to each other. 
“Of course,” they said. The two UF students were mar -
ried as part of “Queerly Beloved,” the second annual event organized by Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Affairs, an organiza-tion within UF’s Multicultural and 
Diversity Affairs. 
While the marriages performed 
were unofficial and symbolic, they 
represented students’ pledges to support equal marriage rights for both opposite- and same-sex part-ners. 
Merritt, who performs similar 
ceremonies for same-sex couples 
through Trinity Metropolitan Com-
munity Church of Gainesville, said the event was important because it reaffirmed students’ support for marriage equality. 
“Although these may not be offi-
cial weddings, I think it’s great that students are committed,” he said. “It’s about exposing the students and giving them an opportunity to support equality for everybody.”
For UF freshman Deanna Par -
sons, the event showed that many students support LGBT rights. 
“It’s great to be able to sup-
port…equal marriage for everyone in a literal way,” Parsons said. “It shows people that it’s okay. It’s accepted, and people will support them.”
The event included a display 
of LGBT resources available in UF libraries and a “curious” table for students with questions about gay rights and LGBT issues. 
LGBT Affairs Senior 
Ambassador Lauren Foong said the organi-zation included these 
resources to  make the event more 
educational. 
Students could also sign an 
online pledge to support equal 
marriage rights through freedom-tomarry.org or film themselves on video discussing gay rights issues for an LGBT Affairs project.
Students who married received 
a photo of their ceremony and a 
certificate announcing their union.Valentine weddings 
promote gay rights
StudentLifen UF STUDENTS ARE PAIRED WITH 
CHILDREN AT SHANDS.
By HALEY DOLOBOFF
Alligator Contributing Writer
From the hallway you can hear the laugh-
ter of children at play, but these sounds are not 
typically heard in this building. 
The laughter comes from the playroom 
in the immunocompromised unit, a unit at 
Shands Children’s Hospital for children re-ceiving treatment for illnesses such as cancer, 
lupus and sickle cell anemia. 
These children, whose days are filled with 
various tests and treatments, have something 
to look forward to when they feel miserable — 
time with their buddies. 
The Footprints Buddy and Support Pro-
gram aims to pair up children in the unit with 
UF student volunteers to give the children a familiar face to comfort them when they come 
to Shands for treatment, said Erica Sokol, presi-
dent of Footprints. 
This program, which was founded in 2002 
by David Sinopoli, then a UF student and mar -
row transplant survivor, provides long-term or day buddies to children admitted to the unit.
Long-term buddies are assigned to patients 
who will be receiving treatment and recover -
ing for an extended period of time, which can 
last from a few weeks to many months. The 
volunteers are able to form a more consistent connection by seeing the children all the time, Sokol said.
Diane Howard, a social worker and case 
manager in the patient and family resources department at Shands, works closely with Sokol and the Footprints volunteers to make 
sure volunteers and patients are matched cor -
rectly.
It depends on age, the match of interests 
between the volunteer and their skills and per -
sonalities, Howard said.
Ashley Flock, a UF biology junior, has been 
assigned two long-term buddies since she be-
gan volunteering with Footprints in fall of 2010.
Her current buddy is a 2-year-old boy di-
agnosed with neuroblastoma. The treatment involves many days of chemotherapy as an inpatient.
When he was diagnosed in July 2010, the 
cancer was in stage four, Flock said.
Flock spent three times a week watching TV 
and just spending time with him while he was trying to overcome his illness.
Recently, Flock has been able to share in 
the joy of watching her buddy recover as he learned to walk again.  She found out from his parents that he is now in remission and will be 
going home soon.
Sokol said the program currently has about 
35 volunteers, and she is hoping for more next 
semester.
If you are interested in becoming a volun-
teer or learning more about the organization in general, contact Sokol at esoks90@gmail.com.Buddy program helps kids 
cope with medical treatmentTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Chemistry Of 
Love
Sophomore biol-
ogy major Kali 
Jimenez buys a 
pre-painted flask 
with a pink car-
nation from UF’s 
Chemistry Club on 
Turlington Plaza on 
Monday.  Students 
could either paint 
their own flask or 
buy a pre-painted 
one for $3 to fill 
with flowers in 
honor of Valen-
tine’s Day.
n HE SAID THE U.S. HAS A 
SHORTAGE OF MATH AND SCIENCE TEACHERS.
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
President Obama unveiled a $3.7 
trillion budget proposal Sunday at 
a science, technology , engineering and mathematics-focused middle school. 
For U.S. Secretary of Education 
Arne Duncan, the location venue was a “very intentional” choice in 
relation to the budget’s agenda. 
If approved, Obama’s proposal 
for 2012 will allocate $77.4 billion to 
benefit America’s classrooms.
The agenda calls for fine-tuning 
of the Pell grant program, the finan-cial aid that low-income students re-ceive for college funding. The bud-get also calls for grants to top out at the maximum sum of $5,550 per student, ignoring the House Repub-licans’ proposal on Friday to slash grants by $845 per student.   
“We have to 
do more with less and shift savings to programs with the 
biggest impact,” Duncan said in a conference call with university re-porters Monday.
According to the budget’s agen-
da, career and technical programs would be cut. 
“There hasn’t been enough ac-
countability for results in these programs,” Duncan said. “In tough 
budget times, we want to see [them] 
to be very successful and make sure these are really rigorous programs preparing for jobs of tomorrow rath-er than jobs of yesterday.”
Stephen Pape, a UF associate 
professor of mathematics education, said it’s important to have teachers who are adequately prepared in that particular realm of teaching. 
“We have people out of field 
teaching to these fields,” Pape said. “Content knowledge is critical to 
proper instruction of math and sci-
ence within the schools.” 
Duncan said that the U.S. has had 
a shortage of math and science teach-ers for a couple of decades. Within the next 10 years, the federal govern-ment plans on recruiting 100,000 sci-ence, technology , engineering and mathematics teachers. 
Secretary of Education talks program cuts, grants
LOCAL
By SUNDAI WESTON
Alligator Contributing Writer
While Randy Burford was 
working behind the desk at the post office, ready to help the long line of people, four men wear -
ing flashy blue and orange suits 
walked in and sang the words, “I’ll 
be loving you always” to him.
His wife, Tamara, sent mem-
bers of the Barbergators Chorus to serenade him with a Singing Val-entine. Burford stood silently and smiled while they sang in a four-part a cappella harmony style.  
After the first song, the patient 
crowd applauded. Girls giggled 
and whispered while guys had sheepish looks on their faces.
From Saturday to Monday , 
the quartet traveled around Gainesville to perform about 20 serenades for $50 each. The quar -
tet also gave them a flower, a Val-entine’s Day card with a message 
and an instant picture, which the 
recipients get to keep.
Wayne McCormack, a member 
of Barbergators since November, said he thinks this type of valentine is particularly special and unique.
“It’s like old-fashioned ro-
mance,” McCormack said. “Just like fashion trends with retro 
things, this is a way to bring it 
back.”The money goes toward spon-
soring the Barbergators activities, 
costumes, competitions, leader -
ship and other training for the 
group leaders and for music, said Dick Moyer, a member of the Bar -
bergators and a UF professor.
The group is part of the Barber -
shop Harmony Society and was chartered at UF in 1973 to celebrate harmony in the barbershop style 
while making lasting friendships.
Although the group sings 
throughout the year, the Singing 
Valentine serenading is one of the most important annual events.
Tamara Herchel was another 
unsuspecting recipient. She was working at the Alachua County 
Visitors & Convention Bureau of-
fice when the quartet arrived.
She immediately started gig-
gling and covering up her shocked expression with her hands.  
Flanked by co-workers who came out to see what all the 
commotion was about, the 
group serenaded her with two love songs from her husband.  
“I just tried to memorize that mo-ment,” Herchel said.Barbershop quartet 
serenades valentinesNewsNational
“It’s like old-fashioned 
romance.”
Wayne McCormack
Member of Barbergators
Dana Burke / Alligator StaffThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do you make an effort to recycle?Monday’s question: Do you have a Valentine?
113 TOTAL VOTES49% YES51% NO
As our leaders in Washington know, something’s got 
to give when it comes to higher education. Both sides of the aisle have marched their preferred pro-
gram up the steps to the guillotine, and we’re waiting to see which one gets a nice shave.
On one hand, President Obama is considering eliminat-
ing the subsidized interest on government-subsidized stu-
dent loans, increasing the amount college students would 
need to pay back over the course of their loans. At first, this proposal would only affect graduate students — who, as you may know, are already strapped for cash — but it could later be expanded to include everyone who receives 
a federal student loan.
On the other hand, House Republicans favor a measure 
to cut spending by scaling back the amount of money dis-
tributed via Pell grants. 
They propose reducing the maximum amount for the 
award to $4,705 — a drop of 15 percent from the current maximum of $5,550.
Both of these programs are targeted at students al-
ready struggling to get a higher education: The subsidized 
amount of a federal loan is determined by a student’s FAF-
SA, as is the Pell grant. 
The difference between the two is what income bracket 
they help most. 
The federal loans help a wide range of students, with 
69 percent of those with subsidized loans coming from households making less than $50,000 a year. 
In contrast, the Pell grants are specifically designed to 
lend a hand to the poorest students, with 97 percent of the 
recipients coming from households with incomes less than 
$50,000 a year.
If we had to pick one to cut, it’d be a difficult decision, 
especially for people who understand how hard it is for 
many college students to make it through college without 
incurring massive debt. If pressed, however, we’d have to side with the president on this matter.
We don’t understand how it seems more feasible to 
scale back help to those who need it most. 
This is especially true when we are presented a viable 
second option which involves spreading the costs around considerably more. 
Some of us have student loans, and the last thing we 
want to see is our interest rates increase. However, if we have to pay a bit more on these loans in exchange for giving underprivileged students a chance to succeed and break the vicious cycle of poverty, we’ll fork the cash over.
We’re still questioning the president on some points of 
his decision, however. The fact that he has done a 180 on interest rates hasn’t escaped us: The federally subsidized student loan rate will slide down to 3.4 percent on July 1, but Obama would have it double to 6.8 in 2012. 
We also wonder why the change has to start with the 
graduate students, who have notoriously unstable finan-cial lives.
Both choices have their downsides, but that’s always 
the case with budget cuts. 
Whatever decision gets made, we’re prepared for the 
uproar afterward. 
Or at least an uptick in angry letters.Pick Our Poison
Federal budget debate 
involves financial aid
As usual, I will play devil’s advocate. This week’s 
topic: recycling. 
How many of us are taught to reduce, reuse 
and recycle? How many of us feel guilty tossing that Coke bottle into the trash container as opposed to the specially designated “bottle” one UF so kindly provides? How many of us take notes on our laptops not only for conve-nience but to avoid filling countless sheets of notebook paper? 
Thanks to the green movement that has clearly swept 
the nation, a lot of us do, but now I’ll bravely wager the 
following: It might be a waste. In a 1996 issue of New 
York Times Magazine, columnist John Tierney put it more 
bluntly than I’d dare: “Rinsing out tuna cans and tying up newspapers may make you feel virtuous, but recycling could be America’s most wasteful activity.” 
Wasteful? Really? That is certainly not a word one 
regularly associates with recycling. His article goes on to debunk recycling religious practice No. 1 by provid-ing evidence that the air of a landfill actually mummifies paper and other organic materials, while plastics become thinner every year. 
Another writer, Jim Fedako of the Mises Daily, writes 
about the psycho social activity recycling has become and how treehuggers and environmentalists convince us of the satisfaction we’ll feel upon using fewer squares of toi-let paper. It’s for the good of the planet, after all, and what heartless demon hates the planet? 
Why, instead of shaking our heads in disgust at these 
writers, don’t we take a minute to humor their opinions? If so many similar articles are available online, there must be something to this “garbage.” 
So, is recycling worth it? Yes, it feels good when we 
drop the annoying Turlington flier into the “paper” slot, but how far does that really go toward the thousands of trees cut down every day to print newspa-pers and magazines? We all like to do our part in hopes that together we can save the earth, but are we in danger of spending enough time and resources on recycling that we offset its benefits? 
Recycling programs cost mil-
lions of dollars a year, not to mention the trucks that pick 
up the trash, the workers who sort it and the administra-
tion that dictates what can and can’t be recycled. 
Contrary to common belief, landfill space is plentiful, 
and the level of human and natural resources required for 
any recycling program only loses money in their minimal 
return. Recycling programs are economic atrocities that 
consume resources and provide almost no compensation. 
In fact, most are government-subsidized because of their inability to sustain their programs. 
According to the New York Times, recycling costs New 
York City $284 a ton, while curbside trash disposal costs only $267 a ton. It makes us feel good, but it’s just losing money in an already aching economy. It’s also not to much avail, as many materials people think can be recycled ac-tually cannot be and are picked out of waste by hand. 
Of the three R’s, I am completely for reduce and reuse, 
but after some research, I’ve been convinced that all re-cycling does is rub the fuzzy place in our hearts. Please don’t come chasing me down with pitchforks as I realize this may seem sacrilegious. Trust me, I want to protect the planet too; I just don’t think recycling is the way to do it.
Laura Ellermeyer is a first-year finance major. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.Recycling proves wasteful in long term
Laura Ellermeyer
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
As I rode my motorcycle home from class today, the 
cars in the lane next to me and I approached a red 
light. 
Wanting to be the first in line, the driver of the car adja-
cent to me swung her vehicle into my lane without checking 
or signaling. It almost collided with me, which, despite my 
helmet, would have been a devastating accident. 
I honked and pulled up next to the driver’s window. She 
rolled it down just long enough to say, “Obviously, I didn’t 
see you,” and closed it before I could respond. 
Like always, it was an excuse without an apology from 
a car driver. 
This happens to me on average once or twice a week 
around this city. Most drivers won’t acknowledge that they’ve made a mistake at all, and the ones who do often find a way to blame the person on two 
wheels. 
Anyone who rides a motorcycle, 
scooter or bicycle knows all about 
this infallible mindset on the part of cars and trucks. Driv-
ers never think they’re too distracted to drive, whether 
it be by the radio, their emotions or their passengers. 
But the worst, by far, is text messaging behind the wheel. 
I’ve had more close calls than I’d like to remember at the hands of drivers who were sure they had mastered the art of texting while driving. Keeping your cell phone plastered to 
your ear with one hand on the wheel is no better. 
I’d like to help the motorists in this town understand 
something: If you hit someone on a two-wheeled vehicle 
because of your reckless driving, it won’t be considered an accident. And if you kill someone, the state of Florida will 
charge you with what’s called vehicular homicide, an of-
fense which can carry a sentence of several years.  
So the next time you go to answer your phone in the car, 
think for just a second about spending the next decade in a 
state prison. Is the text message really worth it?
No doubt you’ve seen the ubiquitous bumper sticker that 
reads “Look Twice — Save a Life.” There really is no better advice for this town, with all our scooter riders and bicyclists around. I urge all UF students and Gainesville residents to make better decisions on the road. 
You can save a life, and you can spare yourself the living 
nightmare that is the aftermath of an accident. Trust me, it isn’t something you want to learn from experience. 
Chris Wood is a UF senior. Fellow motorists deserve drivers’ full attention on the roadGuest column
Chris Wood
Speaking Out
Newly published research suggests 
that exposure to the Confederate flag, prominently displayed by mil-
lions of Americans 150 years after the Civil 
War may , in fact, evoke anti-black sentiments 
among whites, regardless of their reported ra-
cial beliefs. The research team, led by Florida 
State University psychologist Joyce Ehrlinger, published their findings in the journal Politi-
cal Psychology earlier this year after conduct-
ing two studies in 2008. Both studies found 
that white students at a prominent southern 
university who were exposed to images of the Confederate flag judged a fictional black char -
acter more critically , and were less willing to vote for then-presidential candidate Barack 
Obama.
According to the research team, the flag 
may , in fact, provoke discrimination, even 
among individuals who demonstrate little 
prejudice.
“Whether or not the Confederate flag in-
cludes other non-racist meanings, exposure 
to this flag evokes responses that are prejudi-
cial,” the research team wrote in the journal.
The study began after the team became cu-
rious about whether or not there were factors present in the American South that could im-
pact an individual’s racial attitude.
“We wondered whether there were factors 
in the South that could impact people’s will-
ingness to vote for a black president,” read the 
study. “In particular, we focused on the vis-
ibility of the Confederate flag in the South... We are particularly interested in one aspect of 
the flag’s meaning: its association with racial 
bias and prejudice toward blacks.”
According to the team, the research was 
exciting around revolutionary elections.
“The 2008 election and, in particular, Ba-
rack Obama’s nomination as Democratic can-didate for U.S. president, presented a timely 
opportunity to explore the effect of Confeder -
ate flag exposure on evaluation of a black tar -
get,” read the study . “Thus, in our first study , we explored the effects of Confederate flag 
exposure on willingness to vote for Barack 
Obama, relative to white candidates for presi-
dent.”
The study combined two threads of recent 
psychological study focused both on the pow-
er of symbols and on the continuing reality 
of unconscious racist beliefs that continue to 
exist among the general population. The first 
study conducted in 2008 featured 108 white and 22 black college students. Half of the par -
ticipants were subliminally exposed to images 
of the Confederate flag, which popped up on 
their computer screens up to 20 times in rapid, 
15-millisecond appearances. The second half 
of participants was exposed to a neutral sym-
bol composed of colored lines.
Following the exposure, participants were 
asked to rate the likelihood that they would 
vote for the four major presidential candi-
dates: Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, John 
McCain and Mike Huckabee. They were then 
asked to rate their political orientation, as well as the degree with 
which they identified themselves as a south-erner. Although the 
study found that exposure to the flag had no effect on their self-reported feelings toward 
liberalism and conservatism, it did suggest 
that the flag’s psychic impact was on racial rather than ideological attitudes.
“White participants exposed to the Con-
federate flag reported a significantly lower 
likelihood of voting for Obama than those ex-
posed to the neutral symbol,” read the report. The team’s second study featured 116 white 
students.
“In Study Two, we sought to examine 
whether the effect of Confederate flag expo-
sure extended beyond President Obama, re-sulting in negative judgments of black targets 
in general,” read the study . 
In this study, half of the participants were 
exposed to the Confederate flag via a sticker attached to a folder left on their desk. Partici-
pants were told that someone had left the fold-
er behind in a previous, unrelated session.
The students were asked to read a story 
about a black man named Robert, known for engaging in “ambiguously negative and 
aggressive behavior.” Participants were also 
given a picture of Robert to coincide with the 
story.
According to the story, Robert refused to 
pay his rent until his landlord agreed to paint his apartment. The story also featured Rob-ert demanding his money back from a store 
clerk. Upon reading the story , participants 
were asked to assess Robert’s character using 
a series of negative and positive traits. They 
were asked to rank the degree to which they 
considered him to be “kind,” “aggressive” and “selfish.” Participants were also asked to 
take a survey regarding their underlying, or 
unconscious attitudes toward black people.
The study’s results showed that individu-
als who were exposed to the Confederate flag before answering the questions rated Robert 
increasingly more negatively than individuals 
who were not exposed to the flag.
“The size of this effect was not related to 
participants’ preexisting racial attitudes,” Ehrlinger reported. “The automatic effects of 
Confederate flag exposure might lead even 
people low in prejudice to evaluate President 
Obama and other black targets in a more neg-
ative light.”
According to the researchers, Study Two 
revealed that bias was not predicated by indi-
viduals’ racial attitudes.
“Confederate flag exposure does not 
increase accessibility of personal racial at-
titudes,” read the study. “Rather, it seems to 
increase accessibility of culturally associated 
prejudice and results in negative judgments 
of black targets among high and low preju-
dice participants.”
Ana Rebecca Rodriguez is a columnist for 
the FSView & Florida Flambeau at Florida State University.Study links viewing Confederate flag with rise in prejudiceUWire
Ana Rodriguez
UWire8, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011
AP Photo
Kitten Caboodle
Craig Grant bought 30 acres in Lee, Fla., where he has taken in hundreds of cats at a place called 
Caboodle Ranch. He’s created a cat village with a town hall, church, cafe and even a Walmart. He’s plagued by accusations of hoarding and mistreatment of the animals.
They were killed in a rappelling accident in Georgia on Saturday
Ocoee, was a jokester, Seldine said.
During finals week in December, Pirie was in the Reitz 
Union with some friends, and he could feel tension in the room 
from people cramming for exams. 
He wanted to cheer them up.
He had Starbucks straws, and he fashioned them into one 
long straw. He put his sweatshirt’s hood up, stuck both straw 
ends behind his ears and pretended to be an alien.
“He was walking around the Reitz, weaving in and out of 
people, just trying to make them laugh,” Seldine said.
Lockenbach, a sociology senior from DeLand, was described 
as the type of guy to live in the moment. 
“He would literally run to every class,” Josh Denison, 20, 
said. “And he wouldn’t even be running late.”
Lockenbach was a cadet the National Guard’s 927th combat 
sustainment support battalion. Denison said he didn’t have to act like a tough guy — he just was.
But he loved a good prank. While the two were driving one day, Lockenbach convinced 
Denison to squirt another cadet’s moving car with ketchup and then heave a bottle of mayonnaise onto the windshield.“I was just laughing so hard that it was hurting,” said Has-
san, the cadet whose car and clothes fell victim to Lockenbach’s 
condiment trap.
Friends found out about the accident Saturday night. Both 
men’s Facebook pages were flooded with recollections of 
memories and condolences.
One of the last Facebook messages Lockenbach posted was 
on Feb. 9, three days before the accident. It said he was in a relationship.
More than 500 people remembered them at a prayer service 
at Abundant Grace Church Sunday night.
“Lord, this was not how you were supposed to answer our 
prayers for FCA,” one mourner prayed.
On stage was Pirie’s drumline jersey, number 45. Members 
of the drumline retired his number and presented his jersey and the top of his drums to his dad. Pirie’s dad embraced the drumline leaders. All of them were 
red-eyed.
“When I walked in there and saw his jersey up there with 
his drums,” Pirie’s dad said, “my heart just pounded.”
At the service, Dustin Gill, one of Lockenbach’s roommates, 
told about a conversation he had with Lockenbach in Decem-ber about death.
“I remember that Grant said, ‘I don’t want to die, but if I 
died today I’d be OK, because I lived an awesome life,’” Gill said.
Lockenbach is survived by his mom, Patti, his father, Barry, 
and his brother, Alexander.
Pirie is survived by his mom, Sandra Haines, his dad, Brent 
Pirie, his older sister, Lauren Pirie, his younger sister, Rebecca 
Pirie, and his grandparents, Robert and Ruth VanderLugt and 
Robert and Bette Rae Pirie.
Lockenbach’s funeral will be for family . Pirie’s funeral will be Sunday at 2 p.m. at Lake Highland 
Middle School Bourne Chapel in Orlando. Friends and mem-bers of the community are welcome to attend.
Pirie’s father said there will be a memorial service for his 
son Saturday night at the Baldwin Fairchild Funeral Home in Orlando. A specific time has not been set yet.OBITUARY , from page 1n THE MARSHMALLOWS 
PROBABLY DON’T HAVE MUCH ALCOHOL IN THEM.
By SHELLEY GREENSPAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
We’ve all enjoyed s’mores 
and drinks around a fire, but 
until now, the dessert and the 
beverage have stood alone.
But the day has come to wel-
come a new kind of marshmal-low.
Nicole Greene, owner of 
Truffle Truffle, a Chicago-based online chocolate shop, has in-vented the beer marshmallow. 
While she won’t be shar -
ing the exact recipe for beer marshmallows anytime soon, Greene admits to combining Rogue Chocolate Stout beer 
with sugar and cooking it at a 
certain temperature and then combining it with a whipped egg-white meringue. 
Her staff then “stands by to 
watch the magic happen in the mixer.”
She uses a cookie cutter to 
get the right shape and dips the marshmallows in milk choco-late. 
She dusts them with beer 
and pretzel brittle bits for a salty, crunchy top. 
Susan Percival, a UF food 
science and human nutrition 
professor, said she thinks there prob-ably isn’t much alco-hol in the marshmal-
low itself.
Alcohol evaporates quicker 
than water, she said, and with the intensity of the heat boil-ing the sugar, the process gives 
way to the beer flavor. 
“I think people would buy 
the product for the flavor over 
the thought of an alcoholic des-
sert anyway,” Percival said.Online shop creates 
beer marshmallow
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
The Progress Party and the Unite Party will 
battle at the polls Feb. 22 and 23 for UF student 
votes, but for now they’ll have to fight with their bank accounts.
In the last week of January , the Unite Party 
raised $11,000 in contributions, according to Student Government finance records. This past week, the Progress Party raised $610.
Ben Meyers, the Unite Party candidate for 
Student Body President, donated $5,000. He said the money came from family.
Anthony Reynolds, the party’s vice presiden-
tial candidate, contributed $1,500 and T.J. Villam-il, the candidate for treasurer, contributed $3,000. Villamil said he raised the money by sending let-ters to friends and family asking for donations.
“I’m really proud of what we’ve been able to 
do,” he said.
The Progress Party raised $610 during the 
week of Feb. 8 to 14, according to Allan Brooks, 
the party’s treasurer.
He said that all the contri-
butions, the largest at $100, 
were from candidates.
From Jan. 24 to 31 the 
Unite Party spent $4,477.78 of the income on campaign sup-plies like fliers and office sup-plies. Of the amount spent, $4,207.50 was used for 1,000 
T-shirts, according to Unite Party Treasurer Ja-cob King.
The Progress Party spent $350 on T-shirts.SG parties collect thousands
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
The only thing standing between 
Lounetta Watkins and freedom was 
Sheriff’s deputy Mike Rodenwoldt, but it didn’t stop her from pushing the pedal to the metal Sunday.
Watkins, 18, tried to get away 
with $30 of merchandise from the Lowe’s Home Improvement store in Alachua, 15910 NW 144th Terrace, but employees weren’t fooled and notified Rodenwoldt who chased af-ter her, according to a report from the Alachua Police Department.
Before he could catch up, Wat-
kins got into her car and started it up. Rodenwoldt, who was off duty, ordered her to stop.  Instead, she re-versed into some bushes, then drove right into a man in her path.
He grabbed at the hood of the car 
and held on for 30 yards, jumping off 
as she pulled out of the parking lot.
Police found Watkins at a nearby 
Dollar General. At first, she denied 
driving the car at the time of the rob-bery , but later confessed to running into Rodenwoldt. She told police she thought he’d been a security guard, not a real deputy, and ran him over because she thought going to jail 
would ruin her life.
She’s charged with felony battery 
on an officer, robbery, resisting arrest 
with violence, and a separate misde-meanor for resisting arrest.Deputy gets run over 
trying to stop thiefLOCALOn the
Web
Meyers
“He would literally run to every class, and he 
wouldn’t even be running late.” 
Josh Denison
friend of LockenbachClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-11-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-20-10-70-1
FREE iPad WITH THIS AD!!
*12 Month Lease required.
Hampton Oaks Apartments
352-333-8643
2-17-11-5-1Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
2 blocks from UF!www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-16-
10-40-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$439
2/1 *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-18-11-20-2
Sports
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n THE FRESHMAN HAS GUARDED 
SOME OF THE SEC’S TOP SCORERS.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org 
 
Florida freshman Scottie Wilbekin is 
guarding players who arguably belong in 
the NBA, when in reality he should still be 
in high school. 
Names like Brandon Knight, John Jenkins 
and Travis Leslie — elite scorers and athletes 
who are a team’s most difficult matchup — 
are assignments that have consistently fallen to Wilbekin. 
This was never clearer than Saturday 
against Tennessee when UF needed an an-
swer for Scotty Hopson. 
The junior guard had scored 21 of the Vol-
unteers’ first 45 points, and Gators coach Billy Donovan knew stopping him would be key. 
To whom did Donovan turn?
Wilbekin. “He told me, ‘You’re going to guard Hop-
son, so step up to the challenge,’” Wilbekin said. 
The freshman answered the call, playing a 
major role in a defense that held Tennessee’s leading scorer to just a single point in the fi-nal 10:39 as Florida pulled out the 61-60 win. 
Wilbekin checked in with 7:40 remaining 
and played until the Gators’ final possession. During that stretch, he was matched up on Hopson for nearly five minutes and gave up just a single point while forcing two turn-
overs. 
“He was by far our best defender on Hop-
son,” Donovan said. ”He did a terrific job.” 
While Wilbekin does not always defend 
at that level, Donovan rarely gives his perfor -
mance anything but a positive review. Donovan said Wilbekin’s strength and 
quick feet allow him to effectively defend just about anyone, and Wilbekin takes pride 
in his role as one of the team’s primary stop-pers.
Although sophomore guard Kenny Boyn-ton is considered UF’s best defender, Wil-bekin’s ability to spell him in some cases, and 
complement him in others, has been invalu-
able.
“I take it upon myself as a challenge to 
guard the best player on the other team,” Wilbekin said.
The freshman has made his biggest im-
pact on Florida’s defense, but he has recently developed into a scoring option on the offen-
REPORT: 2012 RB COMMITS TO UF alligatorSports Podcast TEEING OFF WITH TYLER JETT
n Redskins multizillionaire Albert Haynesworth is facing sexual assault charges 
after an allegedly wild weekend. Hope the rest of you men out there celebrated 
Valentine’s Day in his honor. … Kim Kardashian showed up to the Grammys Sun -
day night, but sadly “Turn it Up,” her new smash hit, got snubbed in the Song of the Year category.n According to multiple media outlets, Seff-
ner Armwood High running back Matt Jones, a four-star 2012 recruit, committed to the Gators after attending Florida’s Junior Day on Monday night.n Jesse Simonton, Greg Luca and 
special guest Kyle Maistri join host Adam Berry to discuss UF basket-ball and the process of interviewing athletes. Subscribe on iTunes.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman guard Scottie Wilbekin, who skipped his senior year of high school to join the Gators, has been asked to defend elite scorers such as Kentucky’s Brandon Knight, Vanderbilt’s John Jenkins and Georgia’s Travis Leslie.
Wilbekin emerges as reliable defensive option for UF
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 14
SEE GOLF, PAGE 14By ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
The Florida women’s golf team entered 2011 wonder -
ing just how good they really are. 
After an inconsistent fall campaign that yielded a No. 
26 ranking and a 15-week layoff, the team opened the 
spring season Monday at the Northrup Grumman Re-
gional Challenge in Palos Verdes, Calif., in unspectacular 
fashion. 
The Gators tried to prove their ranking against top-25 
foes UCLA, Southern California, Michigan State, Wake Forest and Ohio State. 
Earlier in the week, coach Jan Dowling was confident about Florida’s chances in the event, held at the Palos 
Verdes Golf Club. She felt the course offered many of 
the same challenges as the Gators’ home 
course. 
Dowling noted the small, fast greens 
in California are an aspect of the course they have had the chance to prepare for at home. 
Dowling has also done her best to get 
her golfers to focus on things other than 
winning the tournament. 
“I want to focus more on individual performances,” 
Dowling said. “This is a great chance to see how we com-
pare to one of the best teams in the nation (UCLA) on a course that they play regularly.”
While the Gators certainly didn’t embarrass them-
selves, they aren’t quite on par with teams like UCLA just yet. 
After Monday’s opening round of play, they are stuck 
in 5th place with a 21-over-par score. This places them 15 strokes behind the tournament-leading Trojans, who turned in a 6-over-par 290 score, and nine behind the Bru-
ins, who are in third. 
The best individual performance for the Gators came 
from their No. 3 position, where  sophomore Mia Piccio 
shot a 3-over-par 74 to end the day tied for ninth place. Senior Jessica Yadloczky turned in a 5-over-par 76 and is 
tied for 20th. 
Junior Evan Jensen is tied for 29th after a 6-over-par After Day 1, Gators remain notch below nation’s best
UF in fifth following first round of tournament
Dowling
14, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011
Parsons on crutches, hopes to be ready for LSU
sive end. 
Wilbekin proved himself capable of 
running the team and handling pressure 
in the early going, establishing a team-
best 3.3-to-1 assist-to-turnover ratio in nonconference play. 
Although that ratio has fallen to 1.4-
to-1 in conference games, his teammates are still pleased with his performance. Se-nior center Vernon Macklin particularly admires Wilbekin for being the consum-mate team player and admitting when he 
makes mistakes. 
“He’s an honest point guard,” Mack-
lin said. “He just tries to do everything to 
make everybody on the floor happy, and 
I love playing with him.”
Despite averaging 2.5 points per game, 
Wilbekin has shown flashes of his of-
fensive talent. Over the past few weeks, Wilbekin has been actively driving to the 
basket and taking open shots more than 
he was earlier in the year. 
The freshman has had multiple shot 
attempts in 11 of the team’s last 13 games 
after taking more than one shot just four 
times in his first 12 contests. 
Against Kentucky on Feb. 5, he tied a 
team high with nine first-half points on 3-of-3 shooting.
PARSONS INJURY UPDATE: Donovan said 
he doesn’t envision senior forward Chan-
dler Parsons returning to practice until 
“possibly Thursday or Friday, maybe.”
Donovan said Parsons is currently on 
crutches after suffering a deep left thigh 
bruise when he collided with senior for -
ward Alex Tyus during a rebound at-
tempt Saturday against the Volunteers. Donovan is hopeful the long week will give Parsons enough time to heal before 
Sunday’s contest against LSU.
“How well he responds over the next 
three or four days will determine whether 
or not he can play,” Donovan said.HOOPS , from page 13
AP Photo
Florida’s Chandler Parsons suffered a deep left thigh bruise Saturday, and UF coach 
Billy Donovan said the senior will not practice until possibly Thursday or Friday.
round of 77, and sophomore Isa-
belle Lendl scored a 7-over-par 78 to tie for 31st. Junior Andrea Watts’ 
8-over-par 79 did not count toward 
the team’s total. 
Despite the struggles of many of 
her golfers, Dowling was pleased with certain aspects of the team’s play. 
“I like the fight of our team,” 
Dowling said. “The scores do not 
reflect ball-striking 
as well as they could 
have.” 
Dowling was also 
impressed by the 
3-over-par perfor -
mance of Piccio and 
noted that without a couple of un-
fortunate mistakes late in her round, she would be sitting near the top of 
the leaderboard. 
“Her round was really better than 
a 74,” Dowling said. “She doubled 18 
where she got stuck in a bunker and 
hit a wrong club on No. 8, but be-
sides that, she played really solid.”
The Gators will begin their sec-
ond round today at various tee times. They will again have a chance to show that they can compete with some of the nation’s top teams in an event that can go a long way toward 
proving just how good they can be.Dowling pleased 
with sophomore Piccio’s 3-over performance
GOLF , from page 13
GolfTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
1 5
2
 6
3
4
Mississippi (16-9, 4-6 SEC)
Yawn.8
alligatorSports Southeastern Conference Power Poll
Kentucky (17-7, 5-5 SEC) 
A top-flight coach, two standout freshmen and a .500 record in the conference. Confused? Don’t be. If UF is an Adonis at the end of games, Kentucky is the hideous 
stepchild.Florida (20-5, 9-2 SEC) 
The Gators are undefeatedin February, but fans can only hope Chandler Parsons’ deep thigh bruise doesn’taffect his “boys” — because that’s truly what makes him the most 
versatile player in the country.
Alabama (16-8, 8-2 SEC)
Got hosed by the officials against Vanderbilt then destroyed Ole Miss. The SEC felt so bad for blowing such an egregious call, it’s letting the Tide play LSU and Auburn in two of its next three games.South Carolina (13-10, 4-6 SEC) The Gamecocks scored nine pointsduring the first half in its loss to Georgia. The first half! Justin Timberlake has a better scoring-to-
minutes ratio.Mississippi State (13-11, 5-5 SEC) 
Kind of like Christina Aguilera slipping at the Grammy’s, this team keeps falling when you expect something better.
109
Vanderbilt (18-6, 6-4 SEC)After a loss in Gainesville, the ‘Dores rolled off three straight, including beating Alabama and Kentucky. They’re finally living up to their preseason billing: consistent.
Arkansas (15-9, 5-6 SEC) Creepier: Cee Lo Green dressed like a peacock swarmed by mup-pets, or the fat guys at Razorback games with no shirts and hog noses screaming “Pig Sooie?”
7Auburn (9-15, 2-8 SEC) I know the whole “War Damn Eagle” thing worked for the football team, but for this sorry squad the motto should be, “War, What is it Good For?”11
LSU (10-15, 2-8 SEC) This team 
play’s basketball like people in theclub “Move it like Berney.” (YouTube!) They’ve lost eight games in a row, in-cluding five by 19 or more. This team is actually deader than the dude from 
“Weekend at Bernie’s.” 12Tennessee (15-10, 5-5 SEC) 
The Volunteers have lost three straight games despite being led by the Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. While they have plenty DJ Jazzy Jeffs’ (Tobias Harris, Brian Williams, Melvin Goins), Carlton (Steven Pearl) is holdin’ em back.
Georgia (17-7, 6-4 SEC)
In a win over South Carolina, the Bull-
dogs played the second worst half of 
basketball ever seen, only because it was preceded by the worst. The game was so ugly that even Stevie 
Wonder knew it was bad.
Rosa Taveras and Jesse Simonton / Alligator Staffn KENTUCKY’S JOHN CALIPARI AND 
OTHER SEC COACHES ARE LOOKING TOWARD THE NCAA TOURNAMENT.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
With the regular season winding down and 
the Southeastern Conference and NCAA tour -
naments fast approaching, a few coaches are changing their focus. 
Earlier in the week, Kentucky coach John 
Calipari said his team is focused more on its seeding in the NCAA Tournament than its po-sition in the East. 
Florida coach Billy Donovan acknowledged 
Calipari has had great success but countered that taking things one day at a time can be ex-tremely important when dealing with student-athletes. 
“When you start talking about weeks down 
the road and don’t take care or prepare for today, I don’t know if you’re going to be pre-pared later on,” Donovan said. 
Donovan acknowledged his team is look-
ing at the league race but added the true focus is always on the next game. 
Vanderbilt coach Kevin Stallings agreed 
with the ends Calipari had in mind but felt dif-ferently about the means. 
To Stallings, the key to getting in the NCAA 
Tournament is his team doing as well as it can in SEC play and the conference tournament. 
“I haven’t talked about NCAA Tournament 
seeding at all,” Stallings said. “Not one bit.”
Stallings added seeding is largely unim-
portant, citing Vanderbilt’s last three trips to the Big Dance. The Commodores were a fourth seed twice and suffered a first-round defeat each time, but they advanced to the Sweet 16 in their one trip as a No. 6 seed. 
SEC GAME OF THE WEEK: With Florida holding a two-and-a-half-game lead in the SEC East, 
second-place teams Vanderbilt and Georgia 
know every game the rest of the way will be 
crucial. 
Both are 6-4 in the conference and will 
square off Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Athens, Ga. 
“It’s a tremendous challenge. It always is 
when we play them,” Stallings said. “But with tremendous challenge comes tremendous op-portunity.”
The matchup will be the team’s second 
meeting this season, as the Commodores 
notched a 73-66 win over the Bulldogs on Jan. 
12. 
The contest pits Georgia’s big three of Tra-
vis Leslie, Gerald Robinson and Trey Thomp-kins against a balanced Vanderbilt squad that 
leads the SEC in scoring offense. 
“There’s a lot of things that impress you 
about Vanderbilt,” Georgia coach Mark Fox 
said. “I wouldn’t say there’s an area of the 
game that you’d say they’re de-ficient.”
WEEKLY AWARDS: Vanderbilt 
guard John Jenkins was named 
the SEC Player of the Week 
after leading the Commodores to wins over Alabama on Thursday and Kentucky on 
Saturday.
The SEC’s leading scorer, who recorded 20 
points against the Crimson Tide and notched a 
career-high 32 versus the Wildcats, now has 14 
games this year with 20 points or more.
“He’s just done a great job of making him-
self better,” Stallings said. “He’s gotten a lot better off the dribble. … But at the same time, 
he’s a terrific shooter.”
The SEC Freshman of the Week honor went 
to Kentucky’s Terrence Jones, who averaged 17.5 points, 10 rebounds and 3.5 blocks in 
games against Vanderbilt and Tennessee. 
Jones leads the SEC with eight double-dou-
bles and has scored at least 10 points in 16 of 
his last 17 games.Coaches eyeing postseason
AP Photo
Kentucky coach John Calipari is already directing his team’s focus away from its posi -
tion in the SEC East race and toward its eventual seeding in the NCAA Tournament.
16, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2011
HOT SHOTS
1. Erving Walker, Jr.
2. Vernon Macklin, Sr.
3. Chandler Parsons, Sr.Walker was a unanimous selection for this week’s 
top spot. In addition to a game-winning layup to beat Tennessee on Saturday, the junior guard scored a game-high 25 points as UF dominated 
South Carolina on Wednesday. Walker shot 10 of 
18 from the field, hit 5 of 9 threes and even con -
nected on 16 of 19 free throws.
Macklin checks in at No. 2 in our rankings after a 28-point, seven-rebound week. The senior center
padded his team-leading 58.3 shooting percentage 
by making 12 of 18 attempts in the two games.Macklin even contributed two blocks and two 
steals, making the most of the 21 minutes he 
played in each game.
Parsons got the week off to a roaring start, re -
cording his third straight double-double with a 14-point, 12-rebound, eight-assist performance against South Carolina. The senior forward’s hot streak came to a screeching halt Saturday against Tennessee, however, as he notched just three points and three rebounds after suffering a thigh bruise.
10 points
10 points5 points4 points1 pointT-1. Chandler ParsonsT-1. Erving Walker3. Kenny Boynton4. Vernon Macklin 5. Alex Tyus 
STANDINGS
Jocelyne Sanchez and Greg Luca/ Alligator StaffWhen Billy Donovan first came to 
Florida in 1996, athletics director Jeremy Foley asked the 30-year-
old coach how many 20-win seasons the Gators had in school history.
He guessed 20. The answer? Five.
“I felt like when I first came here, just 
trying to build a tradition, I was really 
surprised,” Donovan said Saturday after Florida’s 61-60 win over Tennessee in the O’Connell Center. “I was like shocked.”
The victory over the Volunteers gave 
the Gators 20 on the season for the 13th straight year. 
It’s easy to overlook that number, ques-
tion its significance or chalk it up to weak in-state opponents during the nonconfer -
ence schedule.
But consider these numbers:n Florida had previously put together 
20-win seasons just five times (1966-67, 1986-89 and 1993-94) in more than 80 years of basketball before Donovan came to Gainesville:
n The span of 20-win seasons is the 
longest active streak in the Southeastern Conference and puts Florida behind only Kansas, Duke, Syracuse and Gonzaga for the nation’s longest stretch.
n UF had one regular-season confer -
ence title in the 77 seasons before the Don-ovan Era and no SEC Tournament champi-onships. He has three of the former since 
2000 and won three straight tournament 
titles in 2005, 2006 and 2007. 
And with a 9-2 record in conference 
play this season, the Gators have the in-side track to another regular-season title. 
Unlike their 21 wins last year, 25 in 
2008-09 and 24 in 2007-08, this accom-plishment is particularly impressive given the team’s challenging schedule.
Sure, the Gators took advantage of ter -
rible teams early on (looking at you, North Carolina A&T) and recently (Auburn), but they have reeled off a 20-5 record with the nation’s sixth-hard-
est schedule. 
That isn’t lost on 
Donovan. 
“This is a great 
20 wins for our team 
this year because of our strength of schedule,” Donovan 
said. “We didn’t have 11 wins in the non-
conference against teams that were strug-
gling. We really played people all the way through. And then the Eastern Division of the SEC is so hard.”
While Donovan is overrating an SEC 
East that has proven to be anywhere from muddled to mediocre, he isn’t overselling his team’s body of work.
The Gators are ranked No. 14 in the 
newest Associated Press Top 25 and have the nation’s 12th-highest RPI, according to realtimerpi.com. 
They have won close games, blown out 
teams, beaten more talented opposition, shown a little bit of depth and checked off nearly every item on the list of what was wrong with this same core group of play-ers a year ago.
But it doesn’t end with seniors Chan-
dler Parsons, Vernon Macklin and Alex Tyus. 
Perhaps the most encouraging sign for 
Donovan —  something often missing in 
recent years — is the group of talented re-
serves sitting alongside him every game.
With Donovan at the helm and an in-
flux of young talent waiting to take over, 
it appears Donovan’s streak of 20-win sea-
sons isn’t ending any time soon. 
“Just trying to build that, I give more 
credit to the players and Jeremy Foley 
than my coaching staff,” Donovan said. 
“You have to have good people for that to happen.”Florida’s run of 20-win seasons 
too meaningful to overlook
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberry