We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 86 THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n UF and Shands 
are building a new 
Family Medicine 
Center, a $6 million 
facility to be located 
at Main Street and 
Northeast 16th Av -
enue. For the story, 
visit alligator.orgExxon said failed Mont. pipeline was deeply buried
BILLINGS, Mont. (AP) — Exxon Mobil Co. had reas-
sured federal regulators and officials from a Montana 
town since December that an oil pipeline beneath the Yel-lowstone River was safe, buried deep enough to avoid any accidental ruptures. Then, on Friday night, the pipe failed, spilling an estimated 42,000 gallons into the flooded river.
The cause of the accident remains under investigation, 
but the prevailing theory among officials and the company is that the raging Yellowstone eroded the riverbed and ex-posed the line to damaging rocks or debris.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSBy ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
For at least one year, UF stu-
dents’ nighttime transportation 
options are expanding. 
UF is entering a one-year con-
tract with GOTCHA Ride, an 
electric-car taxi service that has 
operated in Gainesville since fall 2010.
The university will give the 
company $75,000 out of already-
existing funds paid through the 
transportation access fee, money that also funds students’ free RTS rides. 
“It’s helping them help stu-
dents receive the benefits of their service,” said Scott Fox, the direc-tor of UF’s Transportation and 
Parking Services.
Starting in the last two weeks 
of Summer B, students will be 
able to access an expanded form 
of the current GOTCHA, which 
stands for Green Operated Tran-sit Carrying Humanity Around, 
service on Thursday through Sat-
urday 8 p.m. to 3 a.m.
The “Rides,” as GOTCHA likes 
to refer to its electric-powered 
vehicles, will take students from 
campus to the downtown district and densely student-populated areas.
The money will help GOTCHA 
increase its current fleet from three cars to five, add a new charging station and hire new drivers.
GOTCHA does not charge for 
its rides, though it is customary to tip the driver. The arrangement will be the same under the new program. 
The request for the service 
came from student government, Fox said.
Both UF and GOTCHA Ride 
are still working on the details 
of the arrangement, and the uni-
versity will soon be developing a plan to market the program to students.
n 
 With the football 
season rapidly 
approaching, alliga -
torSports continues 
its five-part install -
ment previewing 
the Gators. Today: 
Coach Muschamp, 
the Florida Way 
and winning.   
See Story, Page 18.
Thunder
storms
91/73FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18
Bryan Doolin / Alligator
Left to right: Marisa Dunkel, Meagan Kaufman, John Slate and Alison Carestia cruise in a GOTCHA Ride 
down University Avenue on the way to midtown Wednesday night.
STUDENT LIFE
GOTCHA Ride looking to give barflies a new way homen SENTENCING IS TODAY.
By MEHGAN MCLENDON
Alligator Contributing Writer 
One six-week-long trial, media 
frenzy and not-guilty verdict later, a 
few UF legal experts have weighed in 
with opinions on the Casey Anthony 
verdict.
Michael Seigel, a UF law professor, 
said he thinks the biggest problem for the prosecution was not being able to establish what happened to Caylee An-thony between the time she went miss-ing in June 2008 and the discovery of her body in December 2008 beyond a 
reasonable doubt.
 “Jose Baez repeated the words 
‘reasonable doubt’ so much that they 
seemed to live in this case,” he said, “and the prosecution was unable to re-spond because they only had a theory.”
Seigel feels comparisons being made 
between the Anthony trial and that of O.J. Simpson are far-fetched. 
“In the O.J. case, the evidence really 
was overwhelming,” he said. “It came down to racial issues and other side is-
sues. Here there was none of that.”
Seigel said the media circus sur -
rounding the trial could be attributed 
to the attention Caylee’s story received when she was first reported missing. 
George Dekle, a UF legal skills pro-Law experts weigh 
in on Anthony case 
SEE TRIAL, p AGE 4By CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
A recent UF graduate died Saturday while 
tubing with his friends at Ginnie Springs on 
the Santa Fe River.
L. Jahi James, 22, of Lauderhill, Fla., fell 
into the water when the inner tube he was 
floating on was flipped over, said Gilchrist 
County Sheriff’s Office investigator Tracy 
Taylor. 
When James didn’t resurface, his friends 
dove into the river to search for him. It took them almost 10 minutes to find him. They at-
tempted CPR.
Gilchrist County Emergency Manage-
ment rescuers arrived about 20 minutes later and could not revive James. They pro-
nounced him dead at 3:24 p.m.
James graduated from UF in 2010 with 
a bachelor’s degree in biochemistry . After 
shadowing a pediatrician at the University of Miami Hospital for a year, he was accept-ed to the F. Edward Hebert School of Medi-cine in Maryland. The U.S. Army was going to pay for it.
He would have officially taken up his 
commission as a second lieutenant on July 
25.
Ryan Jones, 22, was on the tubing trip 
with James. He and James had been friends 
since their sophomore year of 
high school, and the tubing 
trip was part of an informal 
reunion with a group of scat-
tered friends. 
They arrived at the Ginnie Springs Out-
doors launch site around 2 p.m.
Jones was the one who started shouting 
when he realized James hadn’t resurfaced. He said James flipped about 200 feet from 
the springs exit, 45 minutes into their trip.
“It’s just a shock that someone that nice UF grad dies while tubing
SEE JAMES p AGE 4“The prosecution was unable 
to respond because they only 
had a theory.”
Michael Seigel
UF law professor NewsLocalNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 86 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011
FORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson, Rachel Rowan 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Clare Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAY
RAIN
92/73
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WhAT’S hAppENINg 
Lecture by American Photogra-pher Jerry  Uelsmann
July 10, 3 p.m.
Harn Museum of Art
American photographer Jerry Uelsmann will discuss his life 
and work during this presen-
tation. Pre-signed copies of the exhibition catalogue “The 
Mind’s Eye” will be available 
for purchase. Due to expect-
ed high attendance, early ar -
rival is suggested. This  event 
is free.
NATIONAL
Lightning strikes twice for 
NJ’s Lucy the Elephant 
MARGATE, N.J. — Who says 
lightning never strikes twice in 
the same place? 
Certainly not Lucy the El-
ephant.
The national historic land-
mark on the Jersey shore was damaged over the weekend by 
a lightning strike that knocked 
out electrical, computer, alarm and air conditioning systems.
Richard Helfant, executive 
director of the group that oper -
ates Lucy, says Sunday’s light-ning strike could cost anywhere from $10,000 to $100,000 to fix.
Lucy was also hit by light-
ning in 2006. 
That hit caused $162,000 
worth of damage to her riding carriage, called a howdah. 
After that incident, lightning 
rods were installed. 
They may have helped lim-
it the damage from Sunday’s strike.
The popular 65-foot tall wood 
and metal tourist attraction just 
south of Atlantic City remains 
open and will mark its 130th birthday in two weeks.
— ThE ASSOCIATED pRESS
Southern California lizard 
smuggler gets 15 months
LOS ANGELES  — A Califor -
nia man who strapped 15 live 
lizards to his chest and tried to 
walk through customs at Los 
Angeles International Airport 
has been sentenced to 15 months 
in prison.
Michael Plank of Lomita was 
also fined $2,000 and will be on supervised release for three years after completing his sen-tence.
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service says Plank was return-ing from Australia in 2009 when 
customs agents found two 
geckos, two monitor lizards and 11 smaller lizards fastened to his 
body.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Den-
nis Mitchell says the animals 
are at the San Diego Zoo but he wouldn’t comment on what 
would happen to them.
Plank pleaded guilty last 
year to smuggling wildlife into 
the U.S. mayor.
Carlos Gimenez was sworn 
in during a ceremony Wednes-
day afternoon in downtown 
Miami.
Gimenez beat out former Hi-
aleah Mayor Julio Robaina in a runoff election last week. 
They were the top two vote-
getters in a crowded field of 11 candidates vying to replace for -
mer Mayor Carlos Alvarez, who 
was ousted in a March recall. 
Former 2 Live Crew rapper 
Luther “Luke” Campbell was 
among the other candidates in the May 24 special election. 
He finished fourth, behind 
former state Rep. Marcelo Llor -
ente.
With more than 2.5 million 
people, Miami-Dade County is the most populous area ever to recall a local official.
After finishing out the cur -
rent mayoral term, Gimenez 
will have to run for re-election 
in 2012.
— ThE ASSOCIATED pRESS
Beached pygmy sperm 
whale on central Fla. coast 
FORT PIERCE, Fla. — A 
necropsy is underway to de-
termine why a pygmy sperm 
whale beached itself on central 
Florida’s Atlantic coast.
Beachgoers tried to keep the 
10-foot-long male whale alive 
Tuesday, but the sea mammal 
died shortly after a rescue at-
tempt. 
The whale had beached itself 
near the Wabasso Beach Park in Indian River County.
Steve McCulloch of the Har -
bor Branch Oceanographic In-stitute in Fort Pierce says pyg-my sperm whales often suffer 
from a heart condition.
The necropsy began late 
Tuesday was expected to con-
tinue Wednesday.
— ThE ASSOCIATED pRESS
CORRECTION
In the June 28 edition of the 
Alligator, an article about a fos-
sil discovered in Vero Beach incorrectly reported the fossil has been exhibited in the Flor -
ida Museum of Natural History since November. A replica of the fossil has been exhibited.He was represented by at-
torney Larry Bakman, who 
asked for a lighter sentence.
— ThE ASSOCIATED pRESS
Authorities say they are 
investigating the matter.Farmers workers to get $1.5 million back wages 
DALLAS — Farmers Insur -
ance has agreed to pay just 
over $1.5 million in back over -
time wages to workers at 11 customer service call centers in Texas and five other states after a U.S. Labor Department 
investigation.
The federal probe found 
what a Labor Department 
statement Wednesday called “significant and systemic vio-
lations” of federal overtime 
and record-keeping provi-sions of federal wage-hour statutes. 
The agreement will pay 
back overtime to almost 3,500 workers.
Those workers were spread 
over Farmers centers in Aus-
tin, Texas; Olathe, Kan.; Okla-
homa City; Lake Mary, Fla.; Grand Rapids, Mich.; Over -
land Park, Kan.; and Hills-
boro, Ore.
A message to Los Ange-
les-based Farmers seeking 
comment was not returned Wednesday.
— ThE ASSOCIATED pRESS
Okefenokee fire continues 
to burn 
FOLKSTON, Ga. — Fire in-
formation officials at the Oke-
fenokee National Wildlife Ref-
uge say the Honey Prairie Fire 
continues to burn, and a new blaze has been identified.
Officials said Tuesday the 
Honey Prairie Fire has burned about 290,000 acres, includ-ing 2,250 acres in the past two days.
They say a new fire, called 
the Cravens Fire, has been spotted northwest of the main body of the fire and within its containment lines.
Fire information officer 
Rich Phelps says the main fire is 70 percent contained, although there are probably lines all the way around the 
fire. 
— ThE ASSOCIATED pRESS 
STATE
gimenez installed as new 
Miami-Dade mayor 
MIAMI — Miami-Dade 
County officially has a new FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
RAIN
92/74RAIN
90/74RAIN
91/74ThUNDER
STORMS
91/73
THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By MARIA CASTILLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Stephen C. O’Connell Center is 
getting a facelift at an estimated cost of 
$900,000. 
Lynda Reinhart, director of the cen-
ter, said the recent renovation addresses safety issues. New handrails, first-level 
bleachers and wider aisles will better ac-
commodate the audience.
To maintain the old bleachers, which 
were 30 years old, the university was spending a tremendous amount of mon-
ey, Reinhart said. 
“Even though it was a pretty hefty 
outlay of money,” she said, “it will save 
the university some money in the long 
run with less maintenance expense.”
The new bleachers have a clean look, 
she said, that will closely match the Gator 
blue color and brighten the arena.
The main area previously held around 
12,000 seats; with the wider aisles, about 200 seats had to be removed, she said. 
Fewer seats shouldn’t affect ticket pric-
ing in future events. 
The project was funded by the 
O’Connell Center’s reserves and started 
May 14. It had been discussed for about 
three years, said Jeremy Cynkar, director of operations. Cynkar said the bleachers will be more aesthetically pleasing.
By the end of this week, the arena 
should be ready for fall activities. UF Football and Volleyball Fan Day, sched -
uled for Aug. 20, will be the first event where people will use the bleachers, but people will get a glance at the new arena 
with earlier events, such as another Jeho-
vah’s Witness Conference and summer commencement during the first week of 
August.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011
ON CAMPUS
O’Dome to undergo $900,000 facelift
fessor, said the case made such a media 
splash because it had something that many cases don’t: a truly innocent victim. He said the uproar due to the verdict was remarkable, especially because he feels a 
guilty suspect going free is not an uncom-
mon occurrence.
“The way that our criminal justice sys-
tem is set up is so that if it makes a mis-take, the mistake will be to turn somebody guilty loose rather than to put someone innocent away,” he said. “That’s what it is supposed to do. You shouldn’t be shocked when it does that.”
Jennifer Zedalis, a trial practice pro-
fessor and director of UF’s trial practice program, said the state’s decision to seek the death penalty could have affected the jury’s decision in this case. Even though the jury wouldn’t be sentencing the defen-dant, knowing its decision could result in a death penalty puts added stress on its search for a proper verdict, she said. 
Zedalis compared the Casey Anthony 
trial to another high-profile case: the Scott Peterson trial of 2002. Peterson’s trial was another example of a case where the prosecution didn’t know exactly what happened, but he was convicted and sen-tenced to death. People were outraged that Peterson could call his mistress at his dead wife’s funeral, just as they were out-
raged that Anthony could be partying at 
a club in Orlando just days after her child went missing, she said.
She also said the bizarre way the An-
thony family interacts was an especially interesting aspect of this case.
“It stretches the bounds of human 
experience to see a family like this,” she said.UF professor: 
This is different from the O.J. 
Simpson case
TRIAL , from page 1
Parents: son being wrongly portrayed in death
and genuine — something so horrible could happen to him,” 
Jones said.
Jones said he and other members of the tubing group raced to 
meet the ambulance carrying James to Shands Hospital, but when they arrived, hospital employees said James had not been checked 
in. They later found out he had already been declared dead.
When Taylor arrived at the scene, he spoke to two of James’ 
friends, whom he declined to name. They said James had drunk 
a quarter of a bottle of vodka when members of the group started 
flipping each other’s rafts, and James was dumped into the wa-ter.
James’ family back home and some of his friends disagree.Jones said James didn’t want to drink in front of his 18-year-
old brother, Caleb, who was on the trip. Caleb is a sophomore at UF, and James didn’t want to set a bad example for his brother.
“I’ve never seen brothers as close as they were,” said Raymond Brandte, 23, a friend of James’. 
Jones maintains James only had a one-liter Zephyrhills water 
bottle with Arnold Palmer iced tea and lemonade, to which James  
added a little vodka. Jones said he saw James only have that one drink throughout the 45-minute trip. He said James was asleep 
when two of the friends flipped his tube.
Jones thought people assumed James was drinking out of 
a vodka bottle because it surfaced where he had fallen into the springs.
Larry and Theresa James, however, think their son is being 
wrongly portrayed as responsible for his death.
For the rest of this story, visit alligator.org.JAMES , from page 1By ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
A document released by UF’s Office 
of Audit and Compliance Review has 
revealed the School of Architecture’s di-rector billed the school for the services of a design center he also directs, signal-
ing a possible conflict of interest. 
Martin Gold signed 10 invoices as ex-
ecutive director of the Florida Communi-
ty Design Center which were submitted to the School of  Architecture, of which 
he is also the director. The invoices were 
submitted between 2005 and 2010, ac-cording to a May 20 investigation report by Chief Audit Executive Brian Mikell. 
The bills, ranging in amount from $60 
to $15,000, totaled $47,210, according to the report. 
Seven of the invoices were submitted to the School of Architecture for pay-
ment, and eight of them did not contain 
a specific description of the service pro-vided, listing only “consult” or work dates. 
The last invoice, received in May 
2010, was for $3,000 in consulting servic-es and was charged against a grant for a member of the architecture faculty. 
However, auditors reported that the 
faculty member did not authorize any consulting by the FLCDC for his 
project. 
Auditors concluded that although the 
invoices signed by Gold may have been legitimate, they do create the appear -
ance of a conflict of interest. 
Calls made to Gold’s office were not 
returned by press time.Audit report released
n COW-FITS ARE ENCOURAGED.
By MEHGAN McLENDON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Chick-fil-A lovers can save some mool-
ah Friday if they come into any of the 
restaurant’s locations dressed as a cow in 
celebration of the franchise’s annual Cow 
Appreciation Day.
Anyone who makes an effort to dress 
up, be it wearing a black shirt with white splotches or one of the cow headbands that employees have been passing out to cus-tomers, will receive a free entree. Those who come decked out in a complete cos-tume will receive a free meal with medi-
um-sized waffle fries and drink.
The Oaks Mall location will be provid-
ing customers with cow headbands and 
will set up craft tables in the food court for people who need help creating their cos-tumes the day of the event.
“Basically we don’t want people to come and not get something for free. We 
want them to enjoy our products in some 
way,” said Kassie Smith, training director and manager of the Oaks Mall Chick-fil-A.
The Archer Road location expects to 
see double the amount of customers they would see on an average day , according to Micana Gallaway , training and assistant marketing director for the Archer Road restaurant.
UF student Talmadge Cooper, 20, is 
looking forward to getting his free meal on Friday.
“It’s a great way to market,” he said. 
“You can’t go wrong with free food, and who wouldn’t want to dress up like a cow?”Chik-fil-A to celebrate Cow 
Appreciation Day Friday
UFAdministration“Basically we don’t want people 
to come and not get something 
for free.”
Kassie Smith
Manager of the Oaks Mall Chick-fil-A
Steven H. Keys / Alligator
Gator fans crowd the stands during a UF basketball game at the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center. The O’Dome will be renovated by the end of the week.
“I’ve never seen brothers as close as they were.” 
Raymond Brandte
Friend of JamesTHURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
58 TOTAL VOTES48% YES52% NOToday’s question: Do you think Nancy Grace is an irresponsible TV commentator?Monday’s question:  Will Congress reach a deal on the debt limit by Aug. 2?
If you’re looking for some sense of validation as to 
whether your expert hunch that Casey Marie Anthony is innocent or guilty, seek life elsewhere.
It’s amazing how one jury verdict in a murder case in 
Orange County can suddenly bring out all the greatest legal minds in Western Civilization.  In the span of a few seconds, that sorority girl you saw at Salty Dog on Friday night dry-
humping a jukebox she thought was Matthew “It’s-Always-
a-Good-Time-to-Take-our-Shirts-Off” McConaughey  has become Twitter’s preeminent judicial procedure scholar. (To her credit, she did pass the bar — a few of them, actu-ally.) Before you know it, she’ll be before the U.S. Supreme 
Court arguing against your favorite overly-cut-off shirt UF 
intramural all-star in the landmark case Blowhard v. Rab-bleRabble with Chief Justice Barry Zuckerkorn presiding.
Let’s be clear: A murder case in itself is never a laughing 
matter. A little girl is dead, and, in the eyes of the law, no killer has been found responsible. A family has been de-stroyed, and jurors who are only guilty of fulfilling their civic duty — a duty most of us would try to avoid like those people who knock on your door on Saturday morning ask-
ing you if you would like to find Jesus — now live with a 
ridiculously unfair sense of fear for their safety.
But to see the American public magically turn  into either 
God’s gift to the legal profession or into a walking, breath-
ing Christian Bale meltdown is just...well...jocular...and ex-
pected.
To all those who feel the unnatural urge to tell everyone 
in earshot how you just “knew” the jury would come back not guilty because, unlike those uneducated troglodytes, 
you just know the ins-and-outs of “beyond a reasonable 
doubt” and “burden of proof,” we’re going to give you a big, fat, here-comes-the-next-Michael-Clayton gold star! It takes a real fire-tested barrister to put themselves through 
the intense legal training required to render such a sound 
decision (that’s more than 270 “Law and Order: Special Vic-tims Unit” episodes!). You and all those at Shady Acres fol-lowing the case on pins and needles can waltz with joy.
For those of you who just cannot bear to live another 
minute knowing that Casey Anthony is not going to spend the rest of her life being a human hackysack for Big Ber -
tha and Teardrop Trish, we’re going to let you in on a little secret. It may seem like the day will never come, but rest 
assured, as  long as we have Tennessee, Arkansas and any  
state ending in “-irginia,” in the Union, Nancy Grace will find you another Darwinian defect to sink your teeth into and feel better about yourself.  The empty void you are now feeling will soon be filled by another episode of  “Dancing 
with the Stars” and “The Real Housewives of Menstruation 
County.” 
But until that moment comes, feel free to actually resume 
your everyday lives. Go back to your Farmvilles and your 
Angry Birds. Go back to demanding that the ghosts of Jesus 
Christ and George Washington come down from the heav-ens to “take our country back.” Go back to your honor stu-dent children who are just the pride and joy of your Dodge minivan bumper. 
But then again, no court in this country will convict you 
of excessive tool-ishness.
That’s, of course, until Nancy Grace takes the case.News Flash!
Casey Anthony trial doesn’t 
make you a legal expert
Greatest Foe to America: United States
Roughly 235 years ago Monday, our Founding Fathers 
filed the first paperwork necessary for a new nation. Patriots fought for years. They fought through a 
harsh winter at Valley Forge, through famine and poverty and through doubt when challenging an empire. But they 
fought nonetheless. 
Eventually, the stubborn patriots exhausted the United 
States of the day. Britain caved and, in 1783, recognized the 
colonies’ sovereignty. 
The Declaration of Independence is a document that 
helps capture what the idea of “America” is, but unfortu-nately, the idea of America has been hijacked by none other than the United States.
The “United States” is a purely political entity. It’s the 
government we’ve set up because, as the founders recog-nized, men are not angels. It is the concrete we see around us, from the classically inspired buildings of Washington to the courthouse downtown. It’s also a herd of old men sitting in Congress because they’ve sold their souls to the devil. 
To borrow a word from former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, 
the United States is the compilation of “backassward” poli-cies that the world has come to disdain. Case-in-point: The United States’ constant military intervention into foreign af-
fairs vexes other countries.
The United States is far off from what the idea of Ameri-
ca is. America has existed much longer. America is the belief 
that you can lead a better life than your parents did through hard work. America is life, liberty and the pursuit of hap-piness. It’s religious tolerance, egalitarianism, immigration, free speech, capitalism, meritocracy, individualism and jus-tice for all. 
Most importantly, America is the belief that these ideals 
are not just words giving people that warm tingly feeling. Rather, they define our collective perception of a more per -
fect society. That’s precisely why we say American excep-tionalism.
Has the idea of America been lost? I’d say no. Instead, the United States has repeatedly trampled on the idea of America to the point that we often overlook it. A little flame still exists in our hearts, and we must struggle to show the 
world that we are different from our 
government. For instance, the rest of the world seems to forget that Amer -
icans give more to charity than any other nation by far.
The next logical question then becomes how to reignite 
America. Unfortunately, we won’t grow America back quickly. Just as our forefathers struggled initially for Amer -
ica, we’ll have to work hard to do the same, perhaps a revo-
lution of some sort.
It’s a little cliché, but we have to clear house and “throw 
the bums out.” Politicians are a huge part of the problem. 
A professional politician is nothing more than a narcissistic Janus, and he doesn’t care about his constituency or Amer -
ica; he only cares about his re-election campaign. Only af-ter the House is clean will our ideals take center stage.  We ought to elect people who actually care about America and not their own power.
In order to reinvigorate America, we must first regain 
our confidence. We should get back to our roots of a humble republic instead of an imperial empire. We have forgotten about the idea of America because we have been obses-sively worrying about preserving our primacy in the world. The founders certainly didn’t envision their country as an arrogant superpower.
We ought to work for a smaller government that does not 
lead us, but instead follows us. Ultimately, people should 
define government, not the other way around. America 
will flourish once again only when the United States is con-strained.
Chris Ceresa is a chemistry sophomore. His column appears 
on Thursdays.
Chris Ceresa
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Last Thursday, my good buddy/managing editor/the-
man-who-has-the-sense-to-never-let-me-run-a-Muham-mad-cartoon Joey Flechas and I drove down to St. Peters-
burg for the annual Florida Press Association convention. For the few of you who don’t religiously follow the inner workings 
of Florida print media, the FPA convention is where a bunch 
of godless leftist journos/”media academics”/anyone with a hard-on for the written word from all across the state gather at some palace of a hotel, dress up in outfits picked out by Stevie Wonder and try to outstroke each other in rhetorical masturba-tion. Essentially , it’s like the Republican National Convention with the exception that there’s a limit to how much free booze you can guzzle. 
Believe it or not, our paper (yes, the very same one that lets 
a 63-year-old Vietnam Vet talk about opium trips and throw around F-bombs like a chimp flings feces) was nominated for a few awards. What the hell, we figured, let’s go rub shoulders with some grown-up journalists, pick up a few awards and eat some fancy meals.
As we were heading down Interstate 75 toward “God’s 
Waiting Room,” we wondered aloud all that awaited us. May-be we’d get to talk to some writers/editors we had grammar crushes on. Perhaps I would get a chance to sit down with the 
guy who has interviewed me for a position with his paper three 
times and is harder to read than Chinese braille. Dare we say it, we may even get some business cards! Oh, the possibilities!
But there was one thing on the  event’s itinerary that really 
got our attention: “Rick Scott.”
Now it doesn’t take a brain trust from the University of 
Phoenix to realize that our governor and the media have a rela-tionship that would make Ike and Tina Turner blush. If you’re ever in need of some cheap, family-friendly entertainment, 
walk into any newsroom in the state and shout “Rick Scott!” 
Make sure you bring a camera; friends, extended family and the police will have a hard time believing what you see. 
But Dr. Flech and I, being the naive cub reporters we are, 
thought “Rick Scott” was just a discussion item, the topic of some PowerPoint before lunch.  
So imagine how surprised we were to find out that, on Fri-
day , the governor was actually going to set foot in a room full of reporters. 
Here’s the best way I can describe 
the feeling rumbling around the hotel: Imagine watching an episode of WWE Raw/Smackdown. You’ve got the most 
annoying/boring/slightly irrelevant 
bad guy (editor’s note: see “Swagger, Jack”) standing in the middle of the ring, working the microphone. He says to the audience, “There’s nobody in the back who’s as bad as me! I’ll chal-
lenge anyone, right here right now!” To wrestling nerds, these are code words for “Heads up fans, I’m about to get my clock cleaned,” which gets our blood pumping both upstairs and 
downstairs. Then, all of a sudden, he’s interrupted by an awe-
some fan favorite who is huffing and puffing down the ramp to deliver said clock-cleaning. In the case of Rick Scott’s appear -
ance, it was Mick Foley coming through the curtains as Cactus Jack, carrying a bag of thumbtacks and a baseball bat wrapped in barbed wire. Everyone was giddy to ask the governor about sun rails, his refusal to hand over public records and a smor -
gasbord of other neat-o political stuff. As Good Ol’ J.R. said, “Nobody’s goin’ to kiss their sister tonight!” 
Fast forward to Friday. We had just finished the  award cer -
emony, a spectacle that almost rivaled Michael Scott’s “Dun-dies” in suspense and emotion, and we were making our way to the ballroom for Scott’s arrival. Because I have the bladder irritability of a pregnant woman, I ducked into the men’s room for a quick pregame release. 
As I headed for the sink, I heard the door open. I dried my 
hands and looked up. I almost pissed myself. 
Standing two feet away from me is Slick Rick.
For a split second, I couldn’t help but hear Mickey’s voice 
from Rocky yelling in my head “What are ya waiting fa’, kid? 
Get aft’ him!” 
Here’s how I countered his dreaded “Hey, how are you?” 
jab: (as I’m zipping up pants) “Governor.”
In the eyes of many, I had just blown a golden opportunity 
in a restroom. Why, in that glimmer of time, hadn’t I hammered him on Solantic or his aim to privatize everything from prisons to the pearly gates? I didn’t even ask to see his veto pen!
And this one’s going to eat at you: About 15 minutes later, I 
actually shook hands with him and held a polite — albeit very brief — conversation with him. (Yes, I had washed my hands prior to this. No, his hand wasn’t deathly cold, and no, he did 
not take 3 percent of my lunch.) Either I must be stupid, a cow-
ard, a Jamoke-us Russell of a human being or an unholy alli-ance of all three.
But I had to remain cool. I’m a reporter, dangit; I have to 
maintain some sense of self-control.
Which is exactly why I updated my Facebook and fired off 
a barrage of texts announcing how awesome my brush with executive power was.
Instead, here’s what I got: “Did your hand rot away?”
“You should have pulled an LBJ in the bathroom.” (I’ll let 
y’all Google that one.)
“You should have slapped him with your dick.” 
“Why didn’t you punch him in the balls? I thought we had 
an understanding...” 
“C.J., you have the power to change history ...think about all 
the lives you’ll be saving!”
For many of you, these sentiments may be similar to the 
ones you feel about Scott. For others, they don’t touch the tor -
tures and prison rapes you want him to endure before brunch. 
And that, boys and girls, is a problem.Look, many of us, for good reason, disagree with the gov-
ernor on a variety of issues. Wanting him recalled or defeated in an election is one thing, but assassinations, 180th trimester abortions (editor’s note: We actually checked the math on that) and  haymakers to the “stimulus package”? Really?  How is all this talk better than the “freedom-rhetoric” of pasty , plump, Medicare-receiving constitutional “scholars” who swear that 
President B. Hussein Obama is an Islamic Marxist who has def-
ecated on the graves of the Founding Fathers? You want to re-ally piss off the Dementors? Try actually presenting arguments that, you know, don’t come from bumper stickers and aren’t filled with vitriol. Let’s actually have a rational conversation and exchange views in a peaceful, respons —
Ah, forget it; “tot mom” is on TV .C.J. Pruner is the editor-in-chief of the Alligator.
A pissing contest like no other: My encounter with Rick ScottColumn
C.J. Pruner
Editorial Notebook
letters@alligator.org
On Monday , we recognized a day of 
legendary bravery in an onerous battle for life, liberty and happiness. We put 
aside our political persuasions and forgot our delusions of enmity . For a brief moment, we all had long hair, figuratively sang “Imagine” by John Lennon and did indeed “live as one.”  
This is the moment to cue the “facepalm.”
On Tuesday , the word “American” was 
no longer sufficient to describe us. Rather, 
“American” needed to be appended with  adjectives to ensure our accurate judgment of each other. Of course, they must be simple terms as the world is  black and white. And so, following standard, “Republican” and “Dem-ocrat” would suffice. 
As much as I’d like to write an angst-filled 
lamentation on the ills of our government and political system, I can’t help but feel it would be unfair at this time.  Yes, we are fighting an unjust war. Yes, our political system is cor -
rupted with special interests and yes, Barack Obama wears tighty-whities and not boxer shorts.
Despite these troubles, America is great, 
blah blah. We are a global leader, blah blah. Please don’t misunderstand me — I mean this wholeheartedly . America is an incredible, 
prosperous nation with the most promising 
citizens. We know this, but for the purpose of this column, it needs not my mindless repeat-ing.
During this Independence Day weekend, 
I felt deeply disturbed as I watched news sta-tions.
The bipartisanship of the political sys-
tem has manifested into the sort of joke you 
would expect from a 1990s indie-conspiracy 
theory movie: Constipated old men blindly attack entire political parties in national pub-lications; candidates pledge allegiance to narrow, contradictory positions; citizens pick news stations that will feed their hunger for validation.
The divide and in-
justice is not just on the national level.
Just this week I was reading a column on 
someone’s perceived corruption within the UF Student Government. It painted a picture of SG much like I imagined: a group of rich brats seeking resume-fillers while serving few and working to ensure future victories. Yet somehow, they are supported and voted in by 
their constituency.
Indeed, it doesn’t sound much different 
from the American political system.To add a slap to the face, we are fed by a 
media system that manufactures a sense of 
divide and extremism. We’re told to choose a political party like a sports team and deal with it. 
And so, to quote every political victory 
and concession speech in American history , it is time for sharing thoughts, it is time for heal-
ing and it is time for unity.
We have a rough time ahead as Ameri-
cans, but we’re fighters. We were born fight-
ing, we’re still fighting and we’re going to the grave fighting. 
In our frenzy to cling to political ideolo-
gies, we forget that we all want are a better nation and better opportunities. 
The choice to accept or reject the manufac-
tured evils of fellow Americans is our own.
Abdul Zalikha is a microbiology junior at UF . 
His column appears on Thursdays.
Unity among Americans should last longer than one day in JulyColumn
Abdul Zalikha
letters@alligator.orgtheAvenue         thursday, july 7, 2011
PG 9: Read up on Apple’s ru-
mored venture into the televi-sion market and get some insight into a highly anticipated new release from Junior Battles.
PG 10: Carter Lyles discusses 
the possible future of steering 
wheels in his tech effect column, and Diana Lopez presents an-
other week of Lens Flair.
PG 11: Andy Maroon dives into 
his critique of the latest “Trans-formers” movie while Shelby Webb offers up some words of wisdom for freshmen that just started Summer B.INSIDE:
In one of the most anticipated 
issues of the Avenue in, well, 
forever, we will be featuring 
a Harry Potter extravaganza next Thursday. Be sure to pick 
up our next issue to read an 
entire section stuffed with Pot-ter-related articles and photos 
to prepare for the premier of 
“Harry Pottter and the Deathly Hallows: Part II” at midnight! It’s 
all a Muggle could ask for.NEXT WEEK:
Punk legends Hot Water Music announce new record
By THOMAS NASSIFF  
avenue editor
The local punk rock scene is a rich one that has been well 
documented in the past. 
The Gainesville area has churned out numerous notable 
bands, such as Less Than Jake and Against Me! — bands that 
have transcended their success to current times even when record sales are at an all-time low.
But perhaps no homegrown band is more important to 
Gainesville’s hallowed punk scene than Hot Water Music. The now-legendary punk rockers formed in 1993, releasing seven critically acclaimed full-length albums and several EPs before breaking up on good terms in 2005.
Now, Gainesville punk fans are eagerly anticipating the 
return of one of the founding fathers of the local scene, as Hot Water Music recently announced plans to record a new full-length record — their first since 2004.
The band, which consists of vocalist/guitarist Chuck Ra-
gan, guitarist Chris Wollard, bassist Jason Black and drum-mer George Rebelo, originally came out of its hiatus in 2008. The group made a triumphant return with a secret show at Gainesville’s own Common Grounds that year, and since then 
the band has played scattered shows and festivals.
But before releasing its new full-length record in the spring 
of 2012, Hot Water Music will self-release a two-song EP to support an upcoming European tour in August.
“Hopefully everyone likes it,” Black said. “We’re really hap-
py with the songs. We haven’t written in a long time so these 
were the first two that came out after exchanging ideas.”
Black said the songs came together so quickly because 
Ragan and Wollard already had ideas brewing from their respective side projects. Ragan has had an extensive solo career since Hot Water Music disbanded while Wollard has worked with a variety of artists.
All four members of Hot Water Music have taken on other 
musical endeavors since the group broke up six years ago — something that, Black said, made coming back for a full record and tour difficult to plan.
“It took a long time to figure out and schedule it, but we’ve 
planned it so there’s enough time to do it properly,” Black said. “We scheduled it to be out in the spring, so by the time it comes out, [we’ll all be free.] We wouldn’t have announced all this if we weren’t planning on supporting the record and 
giving it a big push.”
With Hot Water Music coming back to pull out all the 
stops on a new album, many wondered which record label 
the group would choose to release it. Having released music 
with Gainesville-based No Idea Records and indie giant Epi-
taph Records in the past, those two labels seemed to have the inside track on putting out the new album.
But staying true to their form of surprising fans, the group 
chose Oregon-based Rise Records to release the album. The 
label, which has made a name for itself by putting out numer -
ous metalcore releases over the past few years, is seemingly 
in the process of changing its identity.
Craig Ericson, founder and owner of Rise, said adding Hot 
Water Music to the label’s roster is “a dream come true.”
“Hot Water Music is my favorite band, period,” Ericson 
said in an email interview. “I’ve been following them since 1997. Once I knew HWM was shopping for a label, I went full-steam ahead.”
Ericson ended up making perhaps the biggest scoop of 
his label’s history, as countless Hot Water Music fans and the scene at large were shocked at the band’s choice.
“At this point, I expect [that reaction] for everything we 
announce,” Black said. “When we signed to Epitaph, people Mark Bemmer, Courtesy of Earshot Media
Hot Water Music rose from a local force to a legendary punk juggernaut during their run together from the 
early 1990s until 2005. The band reformed in 2008 at a secret show in their hometown of Gainesville, and 
just announced plans to record their first full-length record since 2004 to be released in spring of  2012. The 
band shocked fans when it announced the new album would be released on Rise Records, but bassist Jason 
Black said the group “ expect[s] that reaction from almost any decision [they] make.”
never far from home
see HOT WATER MUSIC, page 10music
“We wouldn’t have announced all this if we weren’t 
planning on supporting the record and giving it a  
big push.”
JASON BLACK
bassist for Hot Water Musicthursday, july 7, 2011  u ALLIGATOR, 9
ﬁ  le under: pop-punk rejuvenation
 Junior Battles mix old and new with debut “Idle Ages”
By   KATHLEEN BOYLE
 avenue writer
 
  In recent years, there has been 
surging popular interest in the abil-
ity to live in the ever-ﬂ  eeting “now,” a practice that aims to relieve stress generated by worry of what was and 
potentially will be. 
  The older we get, the more this 
method becomes relevant — a state 
of mind that disavows expectations and allows us to ﬁ  nd satisfaction in the reality of the moment. As teenag-ers, we begin to understand that, no, life is indeed not fair, and we develop strategies in our minds for how we can 
embark upon change while embracing 
angst. 
  For some, this momentum main-
tains its strength for years; for others, the angst sours as the weight of “have-to-dos” crushes the “wants” of hope-ful, albeit naive, agendas.  
  Time is short. Growing up sucks.       Junior Battles, a four-piece band 
from Ontario, Canada, has put togeth-er a collection of songs that investigate the ins and outs of growing up, ﬁ  ghting nostalgia and coming to terms with the infuriating reality that sometimes life doesn’t unfold in the ways that one had imagined.  
  Appropriately titled “Idle Ages,” 
Junior Battles’ debut full-length for Gainesville-based Paper + Plastick Records is blatantly honest without soliciting sympathy with its admittance of successes and bummers that occur throughout the development of adult-hood. 
  What results is a musical gift of 
high-energy, guitar-centered, pop-punk hooks sealed in a duration of less than 40 minutes, like a clever tongue-in-cheek card salutation afﬁ  xed via duct tape to poorly creased wrapping 
paper.
  The opening track, “Seventeen,” 
establishes the tone for the record.  In-
stantly blasting listeners full-force with a wall of impatient vocals, the song introduces “Idle Ages” with a lyrical declaration that quickly hooks one’s interest: “Here’s a list of reasons we’re making this morning to never feel an-
gry or get disappointed. Our body’s 
growing old while our hearts languish in the gutter, and we’re arm in arm.”  
  But where does Junior Battles in-
tend to take us?            
  As the record unfolds, the band 
delves into an inquisition that likens a poetic confession, a psychoanalyst’s rant that attempts to uncover where, 
when and how one goes wrong by 
default in maturation. Why do lame things happen to good people who, as the band declares, “are all just doing the best [they] can?” 
  Twelve songs reveal tales of de-
bauchery, love gone awry, frustration amalgamating into indifference, giving up but not necessarily giving in, etc. The lyrics frequently strike a chord, making this album relevant for differ-ent points in one’s life, without ever becoming too nostalgic.   
  From a strictly musical standpoint, 
it’s difﬁ  cult to pinpoint the “sound” of Junior Battles.  It would be easy to call this a pop-punk record, but the clas-siﬁ  cation seems wholly unfair to the band. 
  For one thing, the category of “pop-
punk” is as muddled and generic as the term “indie rock” — what does it characterize? 
  The fact that Junior Battles is all 
over the place doesn’t help classiﬁ  ca-tion purposes. The instrumentation is uptempo, structured around power chords, full of memorable hooks and 
vocal melodies. 
  But it’s undeniable that Junior 
Battles is doing something different 
from   its  predecessors, although the exact location of the variation is hard to pinpoint. Maybe it’s in the noodly guitars reminiscent of the Midwestern emo we thought had been blown away already. Maybe it’s in the delivery of 
the dual vocals, which inspire compari-
sons to bands from Blink-182 to The Get Up Kids.
  Junior Battles’ songs veer from 
steady ﬂ  ow, the transitions often chop-py and sharp like a newbie learning to drive stick. This observation should not be confused as a criticism, however.
  Instead, it’s safe to assume Junior 
Battles is expanding upon a genre it’s been following since adolescence, proving that growing up does not nec-essarily mean giving in. 
 Former executive says Apple to enter TV market
  By AMY STUART
 avenue contributing writer
 
  Greg Godin thinks the idea for Apple’s new 
product is a dud. 
  Godin, a DirecTV representative, along with 
several other experts, has mixed opinions on 
Apple’s upcoming venture into the TV market.
  According to an article on DailyTech, Apple 
has plans to enter the television business. An anonymous former executive said the multina-tional corporation might unveil an Apple-branded TV later this year.
  The release of such a product has been 
rumored for a while, but this is the ﬁ  rst time a present or former executive has conﬁ  rmed the 
launch, DailyTech said.  
  After analyzing customer habits among TV 
shoppers, Godin determined that people come 
in to play with the newer TVs, but they don’t like to buy them. In his opinion, the time might not be the right for a TV that bundles services.
  Richard Lutz, a UF marketing professor, ad-
mires Apple’s marketing skills and believes the company would not go into the sector without do-
ing its research. Succes will come with how the 
company markets the product.
  “To be honest, I thought the iPad was a total 
loser when they introduced it, but I was wrong,” Lutz said.  The suggested plans for the new product are 
to bundle Apple TV, released in May of 2007, and iTunes together in a physical TV set.
  One marketing strategy 
that a television does not have is portability. Now more than ever, people don’t want to be tied to their devices. 
  Investing in a non-portable 
product might seem contrary 
to Apple’s normal plan, with 
most of their products offering maximum por-
tability. But according to International Business Times, the move would make sense because it would allow Apple to compete with Netﬂ  ix.   For a company that relies on a few highly 
sought-after products, an Apple television could provide another marquee product with which to fascinate the masses.
  According to Lutz, even portable devices are 
replaced at such a fast pace that the idea of an Apple television taking off seems uncertain. 
  “Technology is moving so rapidly,” Lutz said, 
“that it makes the whole device obsolete before its time.”
  Best Buy employee Kevin Swarm does not in-
dulge in Apple products himself, but believes an Apple TV would see some success.
  “[People will] just ﬂ  ock to it because they’re all 
sheep when it comes to Apple.” 
As cellphones, computers and 
our lines of communication 
grow ever smaller and more 
consolidated, Michigan’s TRW Auto-motive is working on extending those 
same principles to a place you may 
not have considered: your car.
With the rise in popularity of ultra 
fuel-efficient cars and electric cars, 
TRW is working on revolutionizing the 
automotive industry by developing a 
steering wheel that folds up and re -
tracts into the dashboard when the 
vehicle is parked.
“This technology could offer tan-
gible, practical benefits in addition to 
the styling freedom it provides,” TRW development manager Manuel Poy -
ant said in a press release. 
“The key benefit is to make it 
much easier for elderly drivers or oth-
er drivers with reduced mobility to get 
in and out of the vehicle. Due to the significant growth of small city cars, 
this technology could open up the possibility for 
even smaller 
cabin designs.”
 The pro-
posed design 
TRW is current-
ly working with 
features two 
bisected han-
dles that lock 
into place when the vehicle is being driven, but that fold inward into the dashboard once the engine is turned 
off. 
When the driver once again starts 
the engine, the wheel is designed to 
automatically deploy into the driving position.
The primary market that TRW is 
gearing this development toward is the over-65 population, which num-
bered close to 36 million in 2009 and 
is projected to top 72 million by the year 2030.
But Poyant and the team at TRW don’t want to wait that long to put it out on the market. 
The company believes the re -
tractable steering wheel could begin 
showing up in cars as early as 2016, 
and that it may even be part of an 
elderly focused equipment package 
that would make driving easier for 
people with limited mobility.
The steering wheel provides an-
other benefit with its more secure 
style. 
A potential car thief might be dis-
couraged by the lack of a steering wheel in plain sight.
And although the only images the 
masses have seen thus far of TRW’s designs are computer renderings of 
the theorized prototype, automotive manufacturers have already begun 
showing interest in the folding steer -
ing wheel, giving credence to TRW’s goal of putting them in vehicles with-in the next five years.10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, july 7, 2011
Lens
   Flairby Diana Lopez
UF junior Jennifer 
Rodriguez goes for 
a cute and casual 
look by pairing 
a gray strapless 
shirt, tucked into 
high-waisted 
white shorts, with 
neutral sandals. 
“I got these 
shoes for $8 at 
a store called 
888 back home,” 
Rodriguez said. “I 
get a bargain on 
everything I buy 
there.”
Kristi Pagdanganan 
wears a light-
blue belted maxi 
dress with golden 
and feathered 
necklaces. “Today 
I felt like dressing 
casual, but dressy,” 
said Pagdanganan, 
a junior at UF. “I 
think this outfit is 
the perfect medium 
between the two.”For the latest frills, flair and everything 
fashion, check out what our lens 
caught this week. Foldable steering wheels could appear in 2016the tech effect
Band surprised fans by signing to Rise Records
freaked out. When we toured with Sick Of It All, people 
freaked out. At this point we expect that reaction from almost any decision we make.” 
Black said the opportunity and mystery of something 
new also played a part in deciding what label to release a new record on.
“As a band, since we started this, we’ve always been 
interested in working with as many different people as possible,” he said. “If we release the record on Epitaph or No Idea, we pretty much have an exact idea of what would happen. We really have no idea what will happen with Rise.”
A host of questions still surround the situation, but one 
thing Ericson and the band agree on is what seems like a calmness approaching the release. When asked if he felt any additional pressure releasing a record from a band as 
respected as Hot Water Music, Ericson didn’t flinch.
“I’m sure there will be expectations, but at the end of 
the day, I’ll be able to sleep at night knowing we worked 
our hardest promoting the band and the release,” Ericson said. “What it sells is not the most important aspect — far from it, in fact.”
Black stressed the band’s confidence in Rise and said 
they trusted the label because “[Ericson] really wanted to 
do the record more than anyone else.” He added that by 
now, fans should expect the unexpected and have faith in the band’s choices.
As much as the release is being anticipated by die -
hard fans who have waited years for this announcement, 
a lot of time remains between now and spring of next year. In that time, Hot Water Music will tour Europe in August, headline The Fest 10 in Oc-
tober and finally head into the studio 
in winter.
 The most exciting aspect of the 
band’s announcement to release a 
new record might be the excitement of the band itself.
“I think having so long away from writing makes it fresh 
and exciting for us,” Black said. “It’s not like, the touring cycle is over, let’s go write. Everyone really wants to do it.
“The more we talk about it, the more shows we play 
and the more songs we write, the more it seems like ev -
eryone is all fired up about it.”HOT WATER MUSIC , from page 8
Carter Lyles
Columnist
thursday, july 7, 2011  uALLIGATOR, 11
For the third time in five years, we’ve 
tricked ourselves into going to the theater to see giant robots fight 
each other. 
“Transformers: Dark of the Moon” is 
exactly the sum of its parts. 
You already know what Transformers 
are. They’re big metal robots that turn into cars and fight other big metal robots that turn into airplanes or something. 
You already know who Michael Bay 
is. He’s an action junkie director who is 
far too fond of explosions and beautiful 
women with no acting ability to speak of. 
Combine the two and you get exactly 
what you’re imagining: a fun break from 
the summer heat with no lasting value. 
Think of the third installment of the series as the inflatable pools resting in the front 
lawns of the frat houses on campus.
As someone who has little to no 
knowledge of the Transformers universe aside from what I learned in the films, I 
constantly struggled to remember which of the giant robots I was supposed to be 
rooting for. 
I know the basics, such as Optimus 
Prime and Bumblebee, but the rest are 
just a blur of metal on a 30-foot screen. 
And to be honest, I don’t really care. I 
knew what I was getting when I paid my 
$11 to see the movie: big robots punch-
ing each other until they explode in a fury of awesome CGI.
Rosie Hunting-
ton-Whiteley is a nice change from 
Megan Fox, who 
plagued the pre -
vious two Trans-
formers films. Mi-
chael Bay doesn’t even pretend to 
hide what kind of 
girl he is looking 
for anymore, since Whiteley, a Victoria’s 
Secret model who had no acting experi-
ence under her belt, beat out Zoe Sal-
dana (“Star Trek”) and Hayden Panettiere 
(“Heroes”). Surprisingly, she doesn’t do a 
terrible job. 
Shia LaBeouf, who I actually think is 
a fairly decent actor, does what he can, but frankly it’s not much. When it comes down to it, though, is there any time for 
good acting when there’s half of Chicago 
to destroy? 
Overall, “Transformers: Dark of the 
Moon” is not that great of a movie. It is, however, packed with action, explosions, 
amazing CGI and one stunning actress 
who can actually act... a little. 
With a less-than-stellar storyline, I’d 
recommend “Transformers” only if you 
want to beat the heat — but don’t expect 
much substance.“Transformers” lacks substance What to watch out for:  
Summer B freshmen editionfreshman awareness
By SHELBY WEBB  
avenue writer
Summer B is well underway, with many 
UF freshmen about two weeks into their college careers. The summer se -
mester is a good way to ease into college life, but some of you may have noticed it isn’t the 
easiest thing in the world.
Here are a few pointers to help you avoid 
looking like a lost freshman — including some 
lessons that we upperclassmen had to learn the hard way.
First, don’t be the drunkest person at the 
party. Maybe you drank a little in high school, took a few shots and played a round or two of beer pong. Now you’re eager to show everyone 
just what a drinking champ you are. 
Bad move. 
If you drink everything in sight within the 
first five minutes of arriving to try to show off, you’ll probably end up vomiting, creepily hitting on much more sober people and crying about a public urination citation by 11 p.m. 
Just take it slow and trust me: You’ll end up 
getting plenty drunk without making a fool of 
yourself.
Speaking of partying, adjusting to your non-
existent curfew can be tough, too. 
Just because you don’t have a curfew 
doesn’t mean you have to stay out until 2 a.m. 
every night, and the first time you miss some crucial pop quiz in an 8 a.m. chemistry class will 
be enough of a lesson to get the point across.
This is also probably the first time you’ve 
had to do your own laundry. Everyone’s ruined 
a pile of clothes when they absentmindedly threw a red shirt in with a load of whites.  
Just make sure you separate lights, darks 
and whites, and make sure not to let your nice clothes run in the dryer for too long. And if you’re just too lazy to drag your laundry ham-
per all the way down stairs, it’s perfectly okay 
to wear your bathing suits as underwear. When the semester ends, don’t rush to sell your books back to the bookstore. They’ll give you $20 for an economics book that ran you $120 just two months ago.
Try to sell them online through Facebook, 
Amazon, TextYard or even Craigslist. This way you can set a reasonable price, and get back way more money than any of the bookstores will give you.
Also, it’s a good idea to familiarize yourself 
with Gator football. Not knowing your football around here is considered an act of treason by some, so don’t be left behind when the season 
gets underway this fall. 
And finally, for the love of all that is good, 
don’t wear an entire outfit only consisting of 
Gator gear you just bought at the bookstore. Just don’t — unless you like being the oblivi-ously overenthusiastic freshman everyone is noticing.
Andy Maroon
The Movie Column
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 4/4’s
ONLY $409
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1The Polos
All Inclusive Roommate Matching
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC!
Great Specials & New Amenities
New 3/3’s w/42” TV @ $429
Cut this out for $45 app. fee
4/4’s @ $349  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. $800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call Cindy 352-443-2016.    8-15-11-25-1
$375-Well-maintained 4/4 SW Gville condo 
avail. starting summer or fall. Less than 10 mins. from UF/Shands/Butler Plaza! RMM 
match, indiv. leases, private bath, walk-in 
closets, W/D, on 2 bus routes. Internet/cable 
included. Call 352.514.3398.   8-26-11-25-12BR/2.5BA Townhouse.
Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865    7-14-11-12-1
Furn.small efficiency,immaculate,wash/dry 
on premises,wat/sew incl,NS,NO PETS,1/2m 
South UF/SHANDS,2 bus routes,$415/m 
352-262-2871 Owner/agent    7-7-11-7-1
4BR/4BA available in 4/4, Beautiful gated 
Countryside complex. $385/mo incl all utils, 
cable, internet, etc. Big Screen tv in living 
room! Looking for female for full year lease. 
Shahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com, 754-281- 5023.   
7-26-11-10-1
4BD/4BA condo available on 7/31. 
$275 per person.1.5 miles from UF; on bus line. 
All appliances & some furniture included. Call J. Erney at 352-328-1266.   7-7-11-10-1
PROFFESSIONAL/GRAD STUDENT.
All amenities. Must be studious & quiet, safe 
& secure. $350/mo. Leave message 333-8300 or 514-3320     7-12-11-4-1
THE COURTYARDS
Steps to UF. Fully furnished.
All inclusive individual leases. Start @ $479
Now leasing for Fall enrollment.
Parking avail.  M-F 9-6, Sat 10-5
1231 SW 3rd Ave., #125
352-372-3557/thecourtyardsuf.com
8-15-11-13-2
1/1 in 3/2 at Campus Edge Condos with util/
cable/internet incl. Condo has gym & pool. Bus routes 9 & 22. Apt is furnished but room isn't. $525/mo Avail 8/1. 954-554-6059  
7-26-11-6-1
Univ Terrace West, 3800 SW 20th Ave, 1/2 
mile from UF on bus lineFurnished, 4 bedroom, 4 bath, W/D, 1st floor 
near busstop, $350/room, includes utilities. 
Call Angela 352-586-6414 before 7/18 or 
Steve after 7/18 352-586-6468;
room-mate matching    8-15-11-10-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Starting at $565
RTS 20, 21, 22
$99 Move In Special
Call today!
352.376.4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
3bedroom/3bath
Starting @$954 ($318/person!)
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
8-15-11-25-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1 $549 • 4/2.5 TH $899
Waived move-in fees • Waived pet fee
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
8-15-11-25-2AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
7-28-11-55-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     7-28-11-47-22BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/1.5BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/1.5BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $590-625. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
7-7-42-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin-ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    7-28-11-22-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    8-2-11-30-2Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.net
Clean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, 
stable, mature persons.
●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 
Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, 
WDH, CHA, carpet. 
●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-
rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock 
gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.
●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 
- $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our 
units are newly refurbished with all new ap-
pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and 
more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    
8-15-11-25-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1500/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/
tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida 
room, private fenced backyard with patio, 
pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-5453    
7-14-11-18-2
REDUCED AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. 
Large home, quiet neighborhood. $475/mo + 
utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 
5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    8-31-
11-32-2
1/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or 
quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth 
call: 352 377-2150    7-21-11-18-2
1/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook-ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2
●Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage Blocks to UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry with w/d, large private screened porch. No Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $875/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836
7-28-11-20-2
3BR/3BA Apartment
Internet & Cable Included
Available August 4th
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838!
8-15-21-2
Very nice Rockwood Villas Townhouse
3/3 for only $900.00/month-Great deal!Large bedrooms, updated appliances, Washer/dryer, 2 pools, lots of parkingCall Jared at (941) 737-6997    7-28-11-18-2
Great 3/2 House w/crpt & w/d (1100sqft)
Rent $1050/month with leasePets allowed  :)  Available June 1stContact Kathryn: kesamai@gmail.com4102 NW 21st Terrace Gville, FL 32608    7-14-14-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-11148-4-11-20-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/ 
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2175 352-665-8166 lv mssg8-15-11-21-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice,
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwash-er, ice, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. $1590/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg          8-15-11-21-2THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm floor plans starting
at $635. Washer/Dryer, Fitness Center,
Tennis Court, Swimming Pool, Sauna etc.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 10-5, Sun 12-4
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillas.com
text (Lakewood)@65586
8-15-11-20-2
SPYGLASS
Individual Leases. Furniture Pkgs. incl.
Washer/Dryer, FREE Hi-Speed internet.
Rates start at $399. Every unit an end unit.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 26nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass) 65586
8-15-11-20-2
UPPER WESTSIDE /
NANTUCKET
1 & 2 bdrm  Luxury Apts. Granite counters.
Parking avail. Walk to campus & stadium.
For info. call 352-872-4644
upperwestside@cmcapt.com
text: upperwestside@65374
8-15-11-20-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
8-15-11-17-2
3240 NW 41st Ave. On bus rte. 3BR/1BA 
house. Quiet neighborhood, W/D, DW, cent 
A/C, screened porch, jacuzzie tub, fenced 
yard, storage unit, pet friendly. Avail 8/1. 
$1000/mo. 1st + security neg. 407-509-4574    
7-28-11-14-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   8-31-11-24-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    8-31-11-24-2
BEAT THE HEAT WITH OUR COOL RATES!
HUGE 2&3 BRs less than 1 mi to UF.
H2O, gas, full sz W/D included.
Call for prices on leases signed by Jul 8
COUNTRY VILLAGE 373.2700
7-7-11-4-2
2 bed/1.5 bath condo with walk-in closet, 
in unit W/D, screened in porch, and pool on property. RTS buses 9, 35, 36, later gator B, and 1 game day bus pick up directly in front. pets are allowed. neighborhood is quiet and neighbors are friendly. (904) 553-82257-28-11-10-2
2BR/2B $700. Sparrow Condominiums. 
Spacious home-like condo. Fenced-in mini backyard. Peaceful. Nice Amenities. 1 Mile from Oaks Mall, 5-miles from UF, on bus line 75. Call Jason 352-283-0240   7-28-11-10-2
UPGRADED 2 BDRM w/ 1BA. Eat in kit w/
peninsula & like new kit appliances, laundry rm w/W/D, bath w/custom vanity, lighting, large liv.rm. One master bdrm w/ceiling fan, 2nd bdrm also w/ceiling fan. Within 1 1/2 mi. of Shands,UF, Butler Plaza on bus rt. Within 4 unit complex. $650/mo. Sorry no pets. Call 1-727-423-9463    7-14-11-5-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances, W/D, DW, central heat/air, large bds, pet friendly! Incl lawn svc & inside pest control. Avail. Aug 1, $1200 - 333-9874 or 317-7346   7-28-11-7-2
Beautiful 2/2.5 Townhouse near campus. 
Pickwick Park off SW 34th street. $800/month includes water, washer, & dryer. pri-vate front patio,upstairs balcony,wood fur-nished closets, and pedestal sinks. Pets ok. call 9044033146.    7-26-8-2●HOUSE 4BR/3BA 2816 W University Ave 
1 mi to UF. Pool, fenced-in nice backyard. 
W/D, DW. $1600/mo Negotiable.
●3BR2BA 3627 SW 15th St. $900/mo.
327-2931, 376-6183       8-15-11-12-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage, tennis courts, pool, 
across from GHFC. On bus line to UF law 
school and campus. Newly renovated, tile, 
granite, etc. $1200/mo. No pets. 331-6872
7-19-11-6-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000
●4/2 in NW $1300.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com       8-15-11-12-2
Available Now. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 Other houses available  7-14-11-
5-2
MUST SEE ● VERY NICE ● QUIET 1BR
Custom built in-law suite.
Close to all. Has it all. W/D, all utils incl + 
cable. $750/mo. Please call 278-8381   7-28-
11-9-2
UPGRADED 2/2 CONDO ON UF BUS 
ROUTE 16 to UF or easy 4.5mi bike ride to 
Norman Hall area; Includes tile throughout w/ 
new washer/dryer, refrigerator & dishwasher. 
Located in cozy community w/ 2 swimming 
pools & 24hr Fitness Ctr!! $700/mo + util. 
Contact stephaniemarie1103@gmail.com
7-14-4-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
GRAD II APTS 2BR 1BA Apt
$750/Mo Carpet, Central H & Air
Inclds Wtr, Swg and Pest Control
Dishwasher. 1 BLOCK TO UF!! 
Laundry onsite
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UF
Wood Floors or Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 1210 SW 3rd Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 500 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry 
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
1 BLK TO UF! Central H & Air, 
Behind Leonardos.
3BR 1BA Home Near Law School
Carpet, Central H & Air, Big Yard
Laundry Hkups, Carport, Dishwasher
217 NW 36th Drive $900/Mo
2BR 1BA Duplex $550/Mo
New Carpet,  Window A/C
Nat Gas Ht.  6 BLKS to UF
604 NW 13th Terrace              7-28-11-8-2
6/2, House only 8 blocks to UF
3000SF, W/D, Central AC, Atriums,
Plenty of parking $2200/mo
352-375-8256
8-15-10-2
Sorority Row Area
1/1 apt 3 blocks to UF
HW floors, Huge Rooms, $750/mo
352-375-8256
8-15-10-2
2bd/2ba lrg ground flr condo in Treehouse 
Village. Fitness ctr, pool, 1.5 mi from UF on bus rte. Very nice, most pets ok. $649/mo - NO Deposit for qualified applicant.(813)340-8982 or cindy.choate@comcast.net8-2-11-8-2
3 or 4BR/2BA, pool, fenced yard, quiet 
neighborhood near UF. Cent H/AC, W/D, 
carpeted. $1050/mo. 1st, last & sec. Call 
352-215-4523    7-12-11-2-22b/2ba near Archer and I-75
650/mo for 12 month agreement
Other Rental Plans Available
W/D Provided. Apt Available 8/1
4628Rental@gmail.com     8-2-11-8-2
3BR, 2Bath, Washer/Dryer, 
Fenced backyard, Carport,
No pets. $1450./Mo   303-877-4915
9-19-11-30-2
2,3,&4 Bdrm Homes For Rent
Immediate or for Fall
Cathy Tyrrell 352-281-2514
Keller Williams Gainesville    7-7-11-1-2
3B/2b condo, 1389sqft, 24hr amenities, W/D 
in unit, no towing. Walking dist to shopping; 
2 bus routes to UF; 1 exit from SFC. Pls call 
321.663.2323    7-14-11-3-2
Large 1BR/1BA condo.
Close to the bus stop.
$600/mo Call (850) 899-8441     7-21-11-5-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL, quiet area
Garland Condos, NW 21st Ave, 2BR/2.5BA, 
2-story, balcony, pool, gym, easy parking,
all appliances, security system $950/MO 
billmart107@aol.com (813)244-6242    7-28-
11-7-2
3BD/3BA Spacious Corner Apt. @
CampusView
1 Block from SHANDS&SOR ROW!/5 min 
walk to UF/Laundry Rm with W&D/Porch
$1500/mo Avail Aug./Call 843-263-9607    
7-21-11-5-2
**WALK TO UF** 617 NW 19th ST. 
4BR/2BTH. 1600/mo. Park cars for games, make money while you rent!!! Avail Aug 1. Wood floors, washer/dryer. Call (803)413-8669.    7-12-11-3-2
50$ WalMart card if you Sublease at the 
Polos 2BR/2Bath outside porch washer-dryer3 pools, 1 hot tub, free cable/internet 8/1/11, available 7/1/11 call Katie 352-283-9723 $859 monthly                             7-14-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38668-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba updated NW 
house. Male or female. No pets/smoking. Free off-street parking $450/mo. Includes all utilities, wifi, security system, Available 8/1. 727-726-2915    7-7-11-42-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-729-1561   7-28-11-35-4$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 
4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 
min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, 
non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881    
7-12-11-13-4
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Countryside 
condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl.Direct bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless.
Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-4814
7-28-11-18-4
Grad student looking for female students 
in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. 
$425/month. Includes cable/internet, utilities, 
W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-
542-8155.    7-14-11-11-4
Looking for 4 UF students to rent furnished 
4/4 student condo at Countryside at the 
University. W/D, pool, no pets, on bus rt, 1.5 
mi from UF. 1st floor. Ready Aug 1st. $400/
mo/rm. Call 386-295-7929 or 386-672-6969   
7-14-11-11-4
Grad student looking for female roommate 
who is clean and studious. Windsor Park 
furnished condo - 3/3, own bed/bath, on 
bus stop close to UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, 
gym, $375/mo + 1/3 utilities. 407-361-1154.
6-30-11-6-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412      7-7-7-4
LARGE 3/2 POOL HOUSE
Master Bedroom, suite, PRIVATE bath and 
walk in closet. 5 min to UF. 
W/D and all utilities included $560. 
Call 352-332-5030 or 352-541-6180    8-15-
11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. $325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837    7-7-11-2-4Male roommate needed for 1BR/1BA in a 
furnished 3BR/3BA at Lexington Crossing 
Apts. W/D, kitchen, bus access every 9 min-
utes. $409/mo, cable, utils & internet incl. 
904-571-3982    7-19-11-5-4
Wanted; female roommate for 2Bd 2Bth 
furnished apt w/ own laundry. Close to 
Shands. $500/mo. + electric. Big closets, 
cable & Internet included. call Christine: 
352.870.3806    7-19-11-5-4
Male, grad student/instructor preferred 
for small furnished apt on side of private home close to UF on bus line. Cable, inter-net, patio, safe. No pets. One person only. 
Avail Aug. $450/mo incl utils. 352-336-5808
7-19-11-4-4
1/1 in 3/3 at the Polos for rent. $410/Mo all 
included (water, elec., cable, internet). Call 
Thierry 352 262 7778    7-28-11-7-4
Male roommate needed - 4 BR house, 14 
blks from campus. Safe & secure NW neigh-
borhood. Great deck & yard. Clean, nicely 
furn, new appl, $575/mo incl util, w/d. AJ 
561.718.5567    8-2-11-8-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-514, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
THINK YOU CAN’T BUY?
Credit score of 600
qualifies you to apply now.
Homes as low as $500/ month.
Oak Park MHC
4000 SW 47th Street
Gainesville, Fl 32608
Call Tessie 888-486-1607       7-14-11-8-5
INVESTOR ALERT!
2/2 in Campus Edge only $115k
Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 352-514-6715ERA Preferred Propertes    7-7-11-5-5
$177,500 - 4BR/3BA w/in-law apt, 1 blk off 
Newberry, corner SW 2nd Ave & 38th ~1 mi 
to UF. 2500 hsf, 2 car carport, Owner will sell 
subject to owner mortgage with good down 
payment 407-363-7198 or 407-234-1380    
7-7-11-5-53BR/2BA near Millhopper 
shops. Screen pch, workshop.
$152,500. Realtor Carol 352-262-4546. 7-28-11-9-5
North Carolina Mountain Lakefront lots. New 
gated waterfront community. Dockable lots with up to 300' of shoreline, Low insurance, Low property tax. Call Now (800)709-5253    7-7-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   8-15-25-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-
25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-
11-25-11
STAND OR SIT ● POWERFUL MOBILITY
15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take 
apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-
erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & 
up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    
7-28-11-17-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   8-15-11-20-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
8-15-11-20-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
8-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
Business Opportunity. Do you keep your op-
tions open to making extra money? We are 
expanding our business in the Jacksonville 
area. We show people how money works.  
Call Dixie or Ed at 904-437-1610   7-19-11-
4-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. 
MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock ready to ship. Starting at $995.00. www.NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N    7-7-1-10
Movie Extras Earn up to $250 per day To 
stand in the backgrounds for a major film 
production experience not required. All looks 
needed. Call NOW!!! (877)435-5877    7-7-
1-10THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-
25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
7-28-11-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 DAY PAYOFF
ON CASH VEHICLES
PAY OFF TIME NEGOTIABLE
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK
CASH VEHICLES $1000 AND UP!
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 EAGLE TALON $1499
89 FORD BRONCO $1299
94 FORD TAURUS $1299
94 TOYOTA CAMRY $2999
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
00 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
96 BMW 318TI $3999
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
01 CHEVY SILVERADO $5999
98 DODGE DURANGO $6999
02 CHEVY SILVERADO $6999
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLE $500 & UP!352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK, BUY HERE PAY HERECARS, SUVS, TRUCKS & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 FORD TAURUS $5999
02 CHEVY CAMERO $699903 GMC SONOMA $699905 CHEVY MONTE CARLO $6999352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 SATURN ION $7999
02 NISSAN XTERRA $899905 CHEVY TRAILBLAZER $999905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10,999352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  8-15-25-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
7-14-11-25-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Denise Fanning at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
Receive $250 for helping us
identify and locate this person. Visit http://
downtownparkinggarage.com/wanted.html for pictures.                              7-7-11-3-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
7-28-87-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617    8-15-11-25-14
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial 
Production department is now accepting 
applications from students only. 
Applicants should be available evenings 
between the hours of 6:00 pm and 1:00 am. 
Production duties include page layout and 
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is 
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected. 
Fill out an application at the front desk of 
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule 
and references. No phone calls or e-mails, 
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to 
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Artist needs model. I have examples of my 
work and local personal references for you to review. decent pay. must have own transpor-tation.352 246 3157    7-9-11-3-14
Full and part time positions available
SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS
TECH SUPPORTLINUX ADMINISTRATORAVIATION RESEARCH ASSTSHIPPING TECHADMIN ASST
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.     7-7-11-8-14
Rowing Coaches Needed!
Local club, HS & MS afterschool programs 
Enjoy the outdoors 2-6 days/wk depending on your schedule- amyrt524@yahoo.com    7-6-11-3-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE 
NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + in-centives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St    7-12-11-4-14 SUMMER WORK
GREAT PAY. $14.50 base/appt
PT/FT opening avail, students welcome
Customer Sales/Service,
Will train, conditions apply
all ages 17+ CALL NOW
(352)505-9241
7-21-11-7-14
FT prof NANNY needed NOW $13/hr;
3 kids under5; M-F 3-7; +wkds; grads
welcomed; refs/bkkg ch; biling. Span/Eng;
long term; Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail
resume, pix, to info@noahsarknanny.com
7-14-11-5-14
PT work home and office. Lawn work exp. 
preferred. Students only. Non-smoking. 
Starting salary $10/hr. 
Call Sebastian (352)591-3000.  
7-26-11-8-14
Are you a team player...capable of building 
teams nationwide, while earning a full time 
residual income with NO time restrictions? 
Then we need to talk to you!
www.danielg.info (305)282-1839   7-28-9-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems is hold -
ing a career fair on July 13th. Seeking highly 
motivated individuals who have a passion for 
life safety and technology. Call Bobby today 
at 352-376-1499 to RSVP.     7-12-11-4-14
Part time for Psychology Office
Duites include anwering phones, scheduling, checking patients in and out, maintaining re-cords, General office duties. Must be orga-nized and able to multi task. References and backgroung check required. Please email re-sume to: hmtjob5@yahoo.com   7-7-11-3-14Female with Parkinsons needs someone to 
spend the night Thursday,Friday & Saturday, 
Assist with medication and check on during 
weekend days, could actually move in if this 
will help student with housing. Background 
check is required. Email name and phone # 
to lisa@fratmgmt.com    7-14-11-5-14
Medical Assistant/ Receptionist wanted for 
busy physician's office. Applicants are rec-
ommended to have previously taken medical 
terminology and/or anatomy courses. PT po-
sition available with flexible hours. Qualified 
applicants please fax resumes to 352-377-
4816    8-4-11-10-14
Production assistant/delivery driver wanted
Job applicants are required to handle and 
transport heavy boxes of paper throughout 
the local Gainesville area. UF student with 
a truck is preferred but not required. Send 
contact info and schedule availability to:
Jobs@GainesvillePress.com for interview.   
7-26-11-6-14
JUST GRADUATE? Play in Vegas, Hang in 
LA, Jet to New York! Hiring 18-24 girls/guys. 
$400-$800 wkly. Paid expenses. Signing 
Bonus. Call (877)259-6983    7-7-1-14
A Few Pro Drivers Needed Top Pay & 401K 
Great Equipment & Benfefits 2 Mos. CDL 
Class A Driving Exp (877)258-8782 www.
meltontruck.com    7-7-1-14
Driver- Recession Proof Freight. Plenty of 
miles. Need refresher? No out-of-pocket 
tuition at FFE. $1000 Bonus for CO's & 
$1500 Incentive for O/O's. recruit@ffex.net. 
(855)356-7121    7-7-1-1416, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011
Driver- PAY UP TO 42cpm! 2012 tractors 
arriving daily! No forced dispatch to NYC or 
Canada. CDL-A, 3 months recent experience 
required. (800)414-9569. www.driveknight.
com    7-7-1-14
OTR DRIVERS- Food Grade Tank Drivers. 
CDL-A w/tank endorsement, Good MVR & 
Hazmat within 90 days required. Up to 42cpm 
w/additional mileage incentives & benefits. 
(877)882-6537 or www.oakleytransport.com    
7-7-1-14
Frac Sand Haulers with complete bulk pneu -
matic rigs only. Relocate to Texas for Tons of 
work. Great company/pay. Gas cards/Quick 
Pay available. (800)491-9029    7-7-1-14
Drivers - CDL-A Start up to 45¢ per mile!! 
SIGN-ON BONUS!! GREAT HOME 
TIME!!! Lease purchase available. 
Experience Req'd. (800)441-4271 x FL-100 
HornadyTransportation.com    7-7-1-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Need Moving Help?
I'll help you load or unload your truck.
Save $$$$. Call 352-328-6215      7-14-11-5-15
LS Media Group
Internet Marketing, Small Business Web 
Development, Social Media Consulting
SEO & Landing Page Optimization
LSMediaGroup100@gmail.com      7-7-11-
1-15
ALLIED HEALTH career training-Attend col-
lege 100% online. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
SCHEV certified. Call (800)481-9409 www.
CenturaOnline.com    7-7-1-15
$$$ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? 
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low 
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! 
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.
com    7-7-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.com    7-7-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high pay-
ing Aviation Career. FAA approved program. Financial aid if qualified – Housing avail -
able. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769    7-7-1-15Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local 
Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904    
7-7-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   8-15-11-25-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'
Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun
1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org
352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-
11-25-20
CPR/ FIRST AID/ WILDERNESS FIRST 
AID/ LIFEGUARDING
Meets internship and health major
requirements
Floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119    7-28-11-
15-20
VINYL RECORDS BLOWOUT!
Hundreds 1950 – 70s LPs 75 cents, 45s 20 cents. Some new, some used mint.  R+R, blues, country, jazz, big bands. Multiple LP sets $1, 1.50, 2. Booth 30, Webbs Antiques, Lake City, I-75 exit 414 (386.758.5564). 9-5 daily. Also 25% off furniture, tools, many col-lectibles incl Gators. Books $1, paperbacks 10 cents. Booth closing July 31. Buy early.    7-7-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
8-15-11-13-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
UF's Shelter Medicine Club is hosting the 
2nd annual Summer Lovin' Adoption Event at Alachua County Animal Services on July 29th and 30th from 1-4pm. The first 20 adop -
tions both days are $5!    7-28-11-7-24
$ REWARD $ - MISSING CAT
"Asia" - declawed calico cat. Windmeadows 
Apt area. Has chip. Collar w/info was on cat. Call 504-834-4446                       7-12-2-25THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 17
Sports
THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
TEAM USA BASKETBALL WOMEN’S WORLD CUP GATORS BASEBALL NOTESn THIS IS THE SECOND 
INSTALLMENT OF A FIVE-PART SERIES PREVIEWING GATORS FOOTBALL NEXT SEASON.
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
It’s been seven months since 
Will Muschamp first stood at a 
lectern and promised his players 
would abide by a specific code of 
conduct.
“There’s a certain thing that 
I’m going to refer to as the Florida 
Way, and that’s the way they need 
to act and that’s the way they need to represent our university,” Mus-champ said at his introductory press conference.
“I’m going to demand that, and 
I think that you’ll understand in time that that’s something that’s very important to me.”
Six transfers later, the rookie 
head coach’s message appears strong as gospel. 
With Urban Meyer-era players 
bolting for the door, other teams across the South are welcoming UF’s diaspora-like transfer of al-leged drug users, academic slack-
ers and depth chart dissenters with 
open arms. 
Harrison Diamond / Alligator
After a mediocre finish and a barrage of off-the-field issues, Florida coach Will Muschamp will try to 
balance promises of proper conduct with the expectations of winning immediately in his first year.  
No. 4: Muschamp - 
Will Florida Way win?
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
What’s it like to turn on the TV and 
see former players like Abby Wambach 
and Heather Mitts playing in the World Cup?
Well it definitely makes it a lot more 
fun to watch, just to have a rooting inter -
est. But, you know, it’s also a great source of pride for the Gator Nation to have two players on that team.
Does that help recruiting?I think any time you have athletes that 
have international experience at that lev-el, it’s a statement about the program. I think it helps. 
There seems to be a lot of pressure 
specifically on Abby, did you speak to her before the team left for Germany?
I saw both Abby and Heather about 
a month before they left and they were both really excited about it. There’s pres-sure on the U.S. team no doubt, but those two want to win as much as anybody, so I don’t think there’s any more pressure than what they put on themselves.
What is it going to take for them to 
advance against such a tough field?
It’s not an easy tournament by any 
stretch, especially when you get to this stage. They have one more group game, 
and then quarterfinals and all that stuff starts. So once you get to quarterfinals, ev-erybody’s good. It’s just a matter of executing under pressure.
Do you think Erica Tymrak could be 
your next player to make the jump to the U.S. national team?
Well she’s certainly gotten some expe-
rience with the U-23 team this summer and that’s kind of the launching point to the next team and to the full team. So, we Q&A: Burleigh talks World 
Cup, recruiting and Tymrak DEAYSEAN RIPPY IS A FOUR-
STAR RECRUIT BY RIVALS.COM.
By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
While observers might consider line-
backer a position of current weakness, 
Florida still repealed a scholarship offer to one of the nation’s standout high school-ers last month. 
Four-star recruit Deaysean Rippy is 
a star at Sto-Rox High in McKees Rocks, Pa. 
Rippy recorded 77 tackles and seven 
sacks as a junior, and he holds scholar -
ship offers from top of the line programs like Alabama, Ohio State and Southern California. 
But Florida is noticeably absent from 
that list — no longer an option for Rippy 
after a tumultuous trip to Gainesville.  
The Gators originally offered Rippy 
while Urban Meyer was still at the helm. 
The outside linebacker was close with 
former defensive coordinator Teryl Aus-tin and said he spoke with Meyer “a lot,” forming a solid relationship.
But on June 18, while on a  family-fund-
ed unofficial weekend trip to Gainesville, the Gators repealed Rippy’s offer. 
The withdraw came a mere three days 
after fellow outside linebacker Lorenzo Phillips orally committed to UF.
“They really burned the bridge with 
me, just by the way that they handled ev-
erything down there,” he said. 
“Instead of calling my mentor or call-
ing me or sending me 
a Facebook message. Instead of letting me 
waste $400 on airfare 
and being miserable in my dorm for two days.”
Rippy was told that 
with two outside line-
backer oral commits — Phillips and Jere-
mi Powell — the Gators had reached their 
quota at the position but would continue to recruit him.
With Florida’s offer gone, he said he is 
now completely open in his recruitment. Gators pull offer from 
top LB, cite space issues
Rippy
SEE SOCCER, p AGE 19SEE FOOTBALL, p AGE 20
SEE RECRUIT, p AGE 19
n Florida shortstop Nolan Fontana and pitcher 
Brian Johnson will play for the USA Baseball Col -
legiate National Team this summer. ... Karsten Whitson was recently named a first-team Fresh-man All-American by Baseball America.  n  Former Gator Abby Wambach scored a goal in the 67th minute but the U.S. fell to Sweden 2-1 on Wednesday, setting up a quarterfinal showdown with Brazil. The loss was the first ever for the Americans in group play.n UF forward/center Patric Young and the USA men’s U19 bas-
ketball team suffered its first defeat at the FIBA World Cham-pionships on Wednesday, losing 87-85 to Croatia. Young went 7-of-8 from the field, tallying 15 points and eight boards. The USA remains the top seed in its group entering Friday’s quarterfinals.Soccer“There’s a certain thing that 
I’m going to refer to as the 
Florida Way, and that’s the 
way they need to act and 
that’s the way they need to 
represent our university."
Will Muschamp
UF football coachTHURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Rippy overcomes troubled past, 
ponders offers from ‘Bama, USC
He plans to sit down with his mentor — 
Pittsburgh Steelers employee Ty Ryan — and 
his family before going forward.
But adversity isn’t new for Rippy. In middle 
school, a downfall in family finances forced a 
move into a rough neighborhood. 
He fell into bad ways, selling drugs and 
stealing cars. He spent 12 days at Pittsburgh’s Shuman Juvenile Detention Center when he was just 13 years old.
“It’s like you’re being commanded to 
do whatever they tell you,” Rippy said of 
Shuman.  “Every time you came back into the 
room you had to squat and cough to make sure you didn’t have anything. After that, it was like, ‘I could be out playing football.’”
Football and nearly two weeks of hell at 
Shuman helped turn a once-troubled kid into a motivated athlete.
“If you were to look at me now, you 
wouldn’t think that I was the same person I 
was five, six years ago,” he said.
As a freshman, Rippy started at middle 
linebacker for Sto-Rox and immediately drew attention. 
When a visiting college coach asked about 
No. 11, he was informed that he was inquiring 
about a 14-year-old. 
Before he was a sophomore, Rippy had 
verbal offers from Maryland, Pittsburgh and Syracuse. 
He would also become student body vice 
president and a positive community figure. 
After hearing a young local boy named 
Nick was a big fan of his 
play, Rippy surprised him 
by showing up at his house for family dinner.
“I could never really 
imagine that I was going to 
be this big-time national recruit,” the 6-foot-2, 198-pounder said. 
“Coming from how I grew up and the place 
that we live, I guess I look at so many football 
players and their history … and it’s always the 
real football players who had a rough lifestyle 
who grow up and become big.
I tell kids, no matter where you’re from, 
you can really do anything. I’m kind of big on 
that.”RECRUIT , from page 18
hope so. That would be great.
How will playing with the U-23  
team help her this season with UF?
Any time you’re playing at a high 
level over the summer, we love that. 
We encourage it tremendously. But 
I think just playing with different 
coaches and different players against 
different competition when you go overseas to do that, the experience is 
invaluable.
You played three professional 
teams during your spring schedule, 
what do you get from playing that level of competition?
We like to challenge ourselves 
and if that means we have to take a 
few losses in the process, that’s fine. I 
think our team learns to play a quick-er speed of play and we learn to be a little bit more relentless. There’s a lot 
of lessons you can take from playing 
teams like that.
Has anyone’s play jumped out at 
you this offseason?
This is the time where we spend 
the least amount of time with them, so until August 3, they’re kind of with 
Karin [Werth], our strength and con-
ditioning coach. We’re not really ac-tively involved with coaching them, 
so it’s hard to say during this part of 
the offseason. It’s our least favorite 
time as a coach, to say the least.
So with just a little over a month 
before the season starts, are you 
starting to get that itch to get back 
out and coach?
Yeah, I was probably ready about 
a month ago, so the quicker this goes by the better.Players return Aug. 3, open 
season at Miami on Aug. 19 
SOCCER , from page 18
Recruiting20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JULY 7, 2011
Led by Heisman Trophy candidate quar-
terback Kellen Moore and often-sought after coach Chris Peterson, the Broncos will look to continue their roll as BCS busters. Although Boise State must deal with an ongoing NCAA investigation, the 
Broncos return a high-powered offense 
and unheralded defensive front seven.  Although Boise State lost record-setting wide receivers Titus Young and Austin Pettis,  the Broncos return senior running back Doug Martin and enter the year on a 62-game winning streak on their home blue turf. 2011 OutlookNo. 7 - Boise State
7 Offense
7 DefenseReturning Starters
QB Kellen Moore 
(273-383 for 3,845 yards, 71.3 
comp. pct., 35 TD, 6 INT)
RB Doug Martin 
(201 carries, 1,260 yards, 12 TD)
LB J.C. Percy
(65 tackles (4 for loss), 1 sack)Players to Watch
Sept. 3 vs. Georgia: For the third straight 
year, the Broncos look to start their season with an upset over a marquee BCS confer-ence school when they take on the Bulldogs in the Chick-ﬁ  l-A kickoff game at Atlanta’s Georgia Dome. Key GameMoore
Martin
Percy
No. 8 - Oklahoma State
The Cowboys feature a potent and explo -
sive offense returning All-Big 12 quar -
terback Brandon Weeden, All-American 
wide receiver Justin Blackmon and all five starting o-linemen. Despite the loss of de -
parted star running back Kendall Hunter and offensive mastermind Dana Holgors -
en – West Virginia’s new head coach – Oklahoma State will look to continue to 
out-score opponents with a dominating 
spread attack. The Cowboys are young on 
defense but are led by co-Big 12 Freshman 
Defensive Player of the Year Shaun Lewis, 
who anchors a solid linebacking corp. 2011 Outlook
10 Offense
6 DefenseReturning Starters
WR Justin Blackmon
(111 receptions, 1,782 yards, 20 
TD)
QB  Brandon Weeden 
(342-511 for 4277 yards, 66.9 
comp. pct., 34 TD, 13 INT)
LB Shaun Lewis
(58 tackles (8 for loss), 3 intercep-tions, 2 fumble recoveries)Players to Watch
Sept. 24 at Texas A&M: Games against Texas 
and Oklahoma always loom large, but an early trip to College Station to face the rising Texas A&M Aggies could set the tone for the season and give them an early lead in the Big 12 North division.Key GameBlackmon
Weeden
Lewis
Gators went 9-3 in Meyer’s first season, won 2006 title in second 
South Florida, Auburn, North Alabama and Texas Tech 
have all gotten stronger after taking on Chris Dunkley, 
Mike Blakely, Janoris Jenkins and Javares McRoy, while 
Florida’s ranks have thinned at key positions.
Although Muschamp’s hard line against these players 
has been popular, it’s tough to predict if it will translate into early wins Florida fans demand.
Expectations for this season will undoubtedly be high 
despite last year’s 8-5 record, and most will look to Mey-
er’s inaugural 9-3 season as a fair starting point.
But even with the aid of a coaching staff featuring six 
Super Bowl rings, Muschamp’s initial slate of Southeastern 
Conference games looks daunting with a brutal four-game 
stretch against Alabama, LSU, Auburn and Georgia. Having Jenkins, arguably college football’s top cor -
nerback, would’ve been invaluable against teams like Auburn, Alabama and Florida State which are unproven 
at quarterback after the departures of Heisman Trophy 
winner Cam Newton, Greg McElroy and 
Christian Ponder.
The Florida Way, however, demanded 
Jenkins’ departure after his third arrest in 
23 months and deprived the Gators of a 
rare chance to play their strength against another team’s weakness. 
But if anything can be learned from 
recent coaching transitions in the SEC, 
it’s not to rush to judgment following a coach’s first cam-paign.
In 2007, Nick Saban, Muschamp’s mentor at LSU and with the Miami Dolphins, endured a 6-6 regular season with the Crimson Tide. Two years later, Auburn’s Gene Chizik fared only slightly better at 7-5.
But in their sophomore years, all three coaches turned 
the corner. 
Alabama finished the 2008 regular season undefeat-
ed and one win from an appearance in the national title game, while Chizik led the Tigers to the 2010 BCS National 
Championship.
Even Muschamp’s predecessor made the jump from 
second-tier SEC contender in 2005, to national champion 
just a year later.
With just 58 days before Muschamp’s first kickoff in 
The Swamp as head coach, the Florida Way has instituted a launching point for the future. 
The only thing left to do is win.FOOTBALL , from page 18
Jenkins
Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff