We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 51 THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n  Florida guard 
Jordan Jones (right) 
and the UF wom-
en’s basketball 
team are excited 
to be playing in the 
postseason, even 
in the Women’s 
National Invitation 
Tournament.
See Story, Page 19.New York judge jails man for lugging beer to DWI hearing 
MONTICELLO, N.Y. — Authorities 
say a New York man appearing before a 
judge on a felony drunken driving charge arrived at court an hour and a half late, drunk and carrying an open can of Busch beer.
Sullivan County Undersheriff Eric 
Chaboty says Keith Gruber of Swan Lake had four unopened beer cans in his bag Monday when he tried to walk through the metal detector at the county courthouse.The Middletown Times Herald-Record 
reports that Judge Frank LaBuda asked the 49-year-old Gruber if he enjoyed his “liq-uid lunch.” Gruber said he did, then said he was sorry. The judge revoked his bail and sent him to jail, where he remained Tuesday.
Gruber was arrested Dec. 27 in the 
town of Liberty and was out on $30,000 cash bail. He has prior DWI convictions.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sunny
85/52FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 19
AP Photo
BYU guard Jimmer Fredette, left, will lead the Cougars into tonight’s Sweet 16 showdown against 
Florida in New Orleans. Fredette leads the nation in scoring with 28.8 points per game. 
UF BASKETBALL
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
The Gators have faced dynamic 
scorers throughout the season, but 
none of them compare to what they will see tonight. 
Vanderbilt’s John Jenkins, Xavier’s 
Tu Holloway and Ole Miss’ Chris Warren were all difficult to contain, 
but none can hold a candle to BYU’s 
Jimmer Fredette. 
Fredette, who leads the nation in 
scoring with 28.8 points per game, will be a stiff test for the No. 2-seed 
Gators (28-7) when they face off with 
the third-seeded Cougars (32-4) to-
night at 7:27 in New Orleans with a 
spot in the Elite Eight on the line. 
“He’s one of the most skilled play-
ers of the last decade,” ESPN analyst Fran Fraschilla said. 
The Gators know this better than 
most. 
In the 2010 NCAA Tournament, 
Fredette lit up Florida with 37 points 
in a 99-92 double-overtime win, en-suring UF’s first-round exit. 
And he’s only gotten better. 
“He’s really taken his game and 
his team to a different level than they were a year ago,” UF coach Billy Don-ovan said.
Fredette’s most noteworthy skill 
is his ability to create his own shot, hitting 40.6 percent of his threes from 
seemingly any distance.  
No matter what scheme opponents 
use or how tightly they guard him, 
Fredette has been able to generate his 
own look and release with lightning 
quickness and a sniper’s precision. 
“He’s going to get his. He’s going 
to score points,” UF senior forward 
Chandler Parsons said. “He’s going 
to hit some ridiculous shots, and we 
just have to smack him on the butt 
and go down to the other end.”
When he isn’t raining threes, Fre-
dette will be driving the lane, sinking layups or earning trips to the line. 
Fredette leads the nation with 245 
made free throws, knocking down 89.1 percent of his 275 attempts. Gators look to stop 
elite scorer Fredette
By ALEX ORLANDO 
and CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writers
After University Police squad cars 
pulled up to Tigert Hall Wednesday 
morning, Humans vs. Zombies was canceled for the rest of the day.
Around 9:50 a.m., a UF employee 
called from the administration build-ing, having spotted a student carry-ing a Nerf gun and mistaken it for a firearm.When officers arrived, they found 
the student, saw the toy gun and re-alized what had happened.
The student’s name has been with-
held by the club, and no arrest was made.
Around 10 a.m., Jes-
se Schmitt, the Gators 
Humans vs. Zombies president, got a call from UPD Lt. William Gainey.
No more games.Schmitt originally had an agree-Humans vs. Zombies 
back on after scare DAVE KRATZER WILL ACT AS VICE 
PRESIDENT OF STUDENT AFFAIRS.
By CJ PRUNER 
Alligator Staff Writer
Dave Kratzer is moving on up — and 
across the hallway.
The UF associate vice president of student 
affairs has been tapped by UF President Ber -
nie Machen to serve as the interim vice presi-
dent of student affairs. He will replace Patricia 
Telles-Irvin, who is leaving her post to accept 
the same position at Northwestern University.  Her last day is Friday.
“Dave has demonstrated great leadership 
and increasing responsibility in the 25 years 
he has spent at the university,” Machen said 
in an email sent to university deans, directors and department chairs Wednesday.
Kratzer, a former major general with the 
U.S. Army Reserve who previously served as the director of the Reitz Union before becom-
ing the associate vice president of student af-
fairs, said he immediately accepted the posi-
tion when offered. 
“I’m just honored to be asked to do this 
by the president,” he said. “I can’t think of a better job at the University of Florida. I can’t 
think of a better job period.” 
Kratzer, who expressed a 
high appreciation for Telles-
Irvin and her work, said he 
didn’t have immediate plans 
to implement any drastic changes. One of his first or -
ders of business, he said, will be meeting with student 
groups. 
“Our mission, vision and values will stay 
the same,” he said. 
Kratzer wouldn’t speculate whether his 
new position would turn into a permanent 
one, saying that all final decisions are left to Machen.Machen names interim VP
SEE ZOMBIES, PAGE 5SEE HOOPS, PAGE 5
Machen
OnCampu sNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 51 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECASTWHAT’S HAPPENING
Islam 101: Who is God?
Today, 8 p.m.
Reitz Union, Room 284Join Islam On Campus for the first student-run informal dis-cussion about the faith of nearly 
1.5 billion people. All are wel-
come. Refreshments will be provided. 
Study Abroad Info Session 
Today, 6 p.m.Stuzin Hall Room 200There will be a study abroad 
information session highlight-
ing the UF exchange programs and the semester programs in London, Rome, Paris and Madrid. All UF students and majors are welcome. RSVP on Facebook: Study Abroad Info Session — March 24. Pizza will be served. Call 352-273-0165 to 
schedule an appointment if un-
able to attend the session. 
Relay for Life Fundraiser
Today, noon
Reitz Union ColonnadeCome out to the Reitz Union to buy a chance to win all types of prizes and gift cards. Every chance-drawing ticket is only $1, or 6 tickets for $5, and funds support the Gators for Haven 
Hospice Relay for Life team. The  
drawing will continue at the Relay for Life event on Friday at 6 p.m. in the O’Connell Center. All proceeds go to the American 
Cancer Society.
A Spring of Hope
Today, 6:15 p.m.
Matherly 14The UF chapter of A Spring of Hope is having it’s general 
body meeting. Come out to join 
a great cause and enjoy some free pizza and refreshments. Also check out the website, 
www.aspringofhope.org.
Gator Girls Night
Friday, 6 p.m.
Reitz UnionCome celebrate Women’s History Month through this scene and taking a cue from the 
popular HBO franchise “Sex 
and the City ,” BearCity follows a tight-knit pack of friends ex-periencing comical mishaps, emotionally sweet and lusty romantic encounters and a cast of colorful, diverse characters as they gear up for a big party weekend. Admission is free, 
but a $2 donation for snacks is 
requested. More information can be found at gainesville-
pride.org. 
MindSight
Saturday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Harn MuseumMindSight is an annual arts event organized by the UF Gator Lions Club. It showcases tactile artistic exhibits to offer 
participants an unconventional 
perspective on art that does not require sight. It is held for the blind community, but every-one is encouraged to attend. The event is free and is open to 
the public.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to ebehrman@alligator.org. 
Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.special presentation of Gator 
Nights. The event will in-
clude a special screening of “Secretariat,” and refresh-ments include free popcorn, soda and a midnight break-
fast.
Tango Class & Social
Friday, 8 p.m.
308-B W University Ave.The UF Argentine Tango Club offers classes every week. No 
partners or experience neces-
sary . Come to learn, to dance or just to watch. Admission is $5 for the public and free for 
UF students. 
First Amendment Free Food 
Festival 
Friday , noon to 2 p.m Plaza of the AmericasStudents can sign away their First Amendment rights for a lunch catered by local restau-rants. Hosted by the Society 
of Professional Journalists.
Hustle for Humanity 3K/6K
Saturday, 8 a.m.
UF Commuter LotThe top three runners in the men’s and women’s divisions will each win a prize. T-shirts will be provided to the first 25 people who register, and food 
will be provided for all partic-
ipants after the race. Register online at http://active.com/running/gainesville-fl/hus -
tle-for-humanity-3k6k-2011. It costs $15 to pre-register and 
$20 on the day of registration. 
Gay Movie Night: BearCity
Saturday,  7:30 p.m.
Pride Community CenterSet in New York’s gay “bear” 
SUNNY
85/52SUNNY
80/51PARTLY
CLOUDY
86/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
88/59THUNDER
STORMS
86/63MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
Hot Spot
An Alachua 
County Fire -
man douses 
the smoldering 
remains of a 
house at 2911 
SW 21st Terrace 
on Wednesday 
night. No one 
was harmed in 
the fire, which 
started just 
before 7 p.m. 
and engulfed 
the house in 10 
minutes. The 
house was previ-
ously vacant. 
Fire investigator 
Sandy Ellison is 
still looking for 
the cause.
STUDENT LIFE
By MIRANDA MOORE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Seventy-seven housing complexes 
tabled outside of the Reitz Union on 
Wednesday hoping to attract poten-
tial residents with cups, koozies, T-
shirts and corn hole.  
About 2,000 students stopped by 
the Spring Housing Fair to pick up freebies and find out about off-cam-pus housing options. 
Lauren Ettlinger, assistant director 
of housing for Student Government, said that although the complexes are 
not formally allowed to sign leases at 
the fair, it is a good way for them to get the word out about the rates and amenities they are offering.  
“The fair is run by students, for 
students as a way for them to view all 
their living options in one place,” Et-
tlinger said. 
Cabana Beach set up a tiki hut and 
distributed  leis, promoting a draw-ing to win a cruise with the signing of a lease. The Enclave advertised an upcoming pool party to attract future residents. Campus Lodge gave out neon shirts with the words “Gym, 
Tan, Lodge.” 
UF senior Neda Shahoori said she 
found her current apartment complex, 
Campus Lodge, at the fair last year.
She said it’s useful to compare 
housing options all at once rather than visiting complexes individually.
 “You can immediately eliminate 
the places that don’t offer what you are looking for,” she said.Housing fair presents 
off-campus options THE SEMINAR AIMS TO BRING A 
DIFFERENT APPROACH TO THERAPY. 
By CRISTINA PANQUE
Alligator Contributing Writer
The thought of going to therapy may not 
sound appealing to students. That is why the 
Satvatove Institute, a nonprofit corporation based in Alachua County, is bringing a dif-
ferent approach to therapeutic seminars to 
Gainesville. According to UF graduate Maria 
Carter, college students should not wait for the 
empowered experience that can be provided 
to them by David Wolf and Marie Glasheen.
The Satvatove Foundational Seminar is 
being held from March 25 to March 27 at the 
Gainesville Hotel & Conference Center. The seminar runs from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. each day . 
The cost of tuition is $570. Cost includes 
a 32-hour seminar, one-hour personal coach-
ing interview and course workbook.
According to Wolf, the 
founder of the institute,  
the seminars are unique because of a combina-tion of communication-based and spiritually based lessons. 
Carter said she has experienced several 
other methods of therapy, but none has cre-
ated a platform for change as the Satvatove workshops have. She said the experience gave her a set of tools to clear out her bad habits and that by emphasizing the spiritual aspect of it she was able to “stop getting in the way 
of herself.” Relationship seminar to be held this weekend
“The fair is run by students, 
for students as a way for 
them to view all their living 
options in one place.”
Lauren Ettlinger
assistant director of housing
Matt Tripp / Alligator StafAroundGainesvilleBy KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested in Sumter 
County on Sunday as part of a sting opera-
tion in that area to catch sexual predators.
Syed Alam, a 24-year-old industrial 
engineering senior, was one of 22 people from all over the state arrested during the operation, which ran from March 16 to March 20.
Alam was contacted through one of 
various messages posted on the Internet soliciting sex with minors, according to Sumter County Sherrif’s Office spokes-man Lt. Bobby Caruthers. 
After responding to the posts, Alam 
made contact with police through text messages, Internet chats and emails to schedule a meeting, during which time those arrested were informed that the supposed partner was a minor, Caruthers said.
Those who followed through with the 
plans and arrived at the agreed location were met by police and arrested on the spot. 
Alam was arrested on seven charges, 
the most of any of the 22. The charges include the use of Internet to solicit or entice a parent or guardian of a child for sex, traveling to meet a minor, unlawful use of a two-way communication device, resisting arrest without violence, posses-sion of paraphernalia and possession of marijuana.
Alam’s bond was set at $56,500. He was 
released Wednesday afternoon.UF student arrested 
in underage sex stingBy SARA KANER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students and former Peace 
Corps volunteers  gathered on the 
Plaza of the Americas on Wednes-day afternoon to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Peace Corps. 
“We want to commemorate 50 
years of service and get students interested,” said Amy Panikowski, the UF Peace Corps recruiter and a former Peace Corps volunteer. “If this event just gets people think-ing, that’s all we want.”
According to Panikowski, the 
UF Peace Corps branch has been around for more than 20 years, and, as of September 2010, is sec-ond in the nation for the number of undergraduate students (97) and graduate students (20) currently volunteering. 
Panikowski encouraged stu-
dents interested in applying to come see her. 
Service organizations, such as 
Volunteers for International Stu-dent Affairs (VISA), UF Amnesty International, Gators for HIV Edu-cation (GHIVE) and the Coalition of Hispanics Integrating Spanish sPeakers Through Advocacy and Service (CHISPAS), tabled at the event to provide students with more information on how to get in-volved and make their Peace Corps applications more competitive. 
Joanna Klager, a second-year 
English major, stopped as she was walking past. She wanted to gath-er more information on the Peace Corps  because she wants to teach English in West Africa someday.
“This event was really helpful,” 
said Klager. “And the student or -
ganizations were beneficial to ap-plying for the Peace Corps.”
Trent Blare, clad in the tradi-
tional gear of the tribe he stayed with, came to the event to share his experience in Ecuador with others.
“The Peace Corps has done so 
many wonderful things, and it’s time to celebrate them,” Blare said. “They’ve had a great impact on our lives, on our country and on the image of the U.S. around the world.” 
Blare spent his time in Ecuador 
applying the agricultural skills he 
learned as an undergraduate at 
the University of Nebraska. He lived with a host family and said that his work was unpredictable 
— he would be so busy one day 
and then not so busy the next, but 
he always did what the commu -
nity needed done, which included teaching kids computer skills and showing adults how to chop with a machete. 
“The Peace Corps isn’t for ev-
eryone,” Blare said. “But you learn so much, and you’re so proud of what you’ve done by helping an-other part of the world and mak-ing a difference. It stays with you for the rest of your life.”4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011
Aundre Larrow / Alligator
Students Daniel Doan, left, and Raj Jayanthan discuss the Peace Corps with intern Jordan Weinstein on the Plaza of the Americas. Wein-stein is applying for an environmental education program; she’s crossing her fingers for West Africa. 
Peace Corps reaches out at anniversary celebration
n THE GROUP HAS RAISED 
$1,000 SO FAR.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
After a tsunami hit Japan, the Asian 
American Student Union was over -
whelmed with offers of money and 
time.
People wanted to help, so Hope for 
Japan, a fundraising organization, was 
created with the immediate goal of rais-
ing $5,000 by March 31. With a week to go and only $1,051.05 collected as of Wednesday, the group is reaching out for help.
“There’s definitely kind words, and I 
do see support,” said Megan Vu, presi-dent of Asian American Student Union and an organizer of Hope for Japan. “But 
I feel that we need to see more action.”
Twenty-year-old Michael Satyapor, 
who recently took over leading Hope for Japan, said the fundraising is a group ef-fort of many cultural clubs.
But it’s slowly becoming its own or -
ganization, and he said it will be around 
for the rest of the semester and probably 
in the summer.
The organization is still a newborn, 
Satyapor said.
He said the group began to grow im-
mediately after it was created, and col-lections are coming in daily.
“Within days, they designed T-shirts,” 
he said. “They designed 
posters. They set up the 
website so people can 
make donations.”
He expects more do-
nations to come in during the various cultural events going on this week, in-
cluding the Asian American Student 
Association’s closing ceremony to their weeklong cultural celebration, which will be held at 6 p.m. Friday in the Uni-
versity Auditorium.Hope for Japan solicits 
donations for victims“They’ve had a great       
impact on our lives, on   
our country and on the   
image of the U.S. around 
the world.”
Trent Blare
Peace Corps Volunteer 
UFProjectsLOCALTHURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Alligator File Photo
A human runs from the undead on UF’s campus during the Human vs. Zombies game in 2010. The game is 
based around humans having to defend themselves from the zombies, using Nerf guns and socks.
A Nerf gun was mistaken for a real weapon
ment with UPD in which the club members would be al-
lowed to play the game as long as they kept it outside.
After a call to the Center for Student Activities and In-
volvement, Schmitt called Gainey again. The two made a compromise where students would be able to continue the game today as long as Schmitt held a meeting with the club’s 400 members to reiterate the outside-only rule.
Schmitt held the meeting in Marston Library later that 
day. The game is back on until its original end time on Sun-day afternoon.
Still, Schmitt said, he doesn’t see how the mistake was 
made in the first place.“There’s no way to mistake this for a real weapon,” he 
said.
The toy gun, a Nite Finder model from Nerf, has a clear 
plastic body with an orange muzzle and trigger. It is the brand’s second smallest model.
Jeff Holcomb, UPD spokesman, said it’s best not to show 
them at all.
He recounted an emergency call two years ago where 
UPD officers were dispatched to the Reitz Union to find a student carrying what turned out to be a water gun.
“Just understand that people are aware and highly sen-
sitive to firearms,” he said, “and it’s best not to take them inside of buildings.”
UF spokesman Steve Orlando, who works in Tigert Hall, 
said there were no traces of panic during the whole fiasco. ZOMBIES , from page 1
“You watch so much film on him and you just 
wonder how he does it,” Parsons said. “He’s an un-
believable player.”
The two have known each other since Parsons 
was 15 years old, when they battled it out on the 
AAU circuit. 
After further clashes at the 2010 LeBron James 
Skills Academy and in last year’s NCAA Tourna-ment, Parsons and the Gators know what to expect. 
“Sometimes, until a player sees it and feels it, 
they don’t actually believe it,” ESPN analyst Jay Bi-
las said. “But they’ve seen it, they’ve felt it and they 
believe it.”
Donovan doesn’t think that will make guarding 
Fredette any easier. 
He said the Gators will throw 
numerous schemes and matchups at BYU’s point guard in an attempt 
to keep defenders fresh. 
Bilas suggested forcing Fredette 
to drive by guarding the 6-foot-2, 
195-pound senior with a taller player who can con-
test Fredette’s long-range jump shots. 
But Fredette has seen matchups like these before, 
and the senior has torched them just as efficiently as 
he has every other scheme. 
“Everybody has tried everything on him, and it 
hasn’t worked,” Fraschilla said. 
INJURY UPDATE: Florida sophomore guard Kenny 
Boynton returned to full practice Wednesday after spraining his ankle Saturday against UCLA. 
Boynton participated only in the team’s non-con-
tact drills Tuesday, a move Donovan said was “pre-cautionary.” 
But Boynton was back to full strength Wednes-
day, and he expects to be good to go against the Cou-gars. 
“It felt great. It felt like I didn’t even injure it,” 
Boynton said. “I’m going to be good for (today).”Boynton practices, at 
full strength for BYU
HOOPS , from page 1
Men's
Bask etballThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
70% YES
30% NOToday’s question: Would you be interested in an Alligator app for your phone?
72 TOTAL VOTESWednesday’s question: Do Florida’s budget cuts worry you?Open Books
It looks like we won’t be 
able to park ourselves in front of our computer 
and read whatever books we feel like for days on end. That’s what we had planned if Google got its way and 
started to fulfill its goal of 
scanning all the books the world has to offer.
A federal judge shot 
down the settlement with 
authors and publishers to 
make millions of books available online. We un-derstand the worries over 
copyrights and the power 
of the authors over their material, but we couldn’t help but feel a little disap-pointed.
With access to books 
no longer bound by the shackles of high costs, long distances or even the lack 
of physical existence, we could open up a new world 
of learning, especially for people in third-world coun-
tries. 
Imagine the only library 
you’d ever need at your fin-
gertips, and you’ll under -
stand what Google is aim-ing for. 
It sounds like a cocka-
mamie dream, but the judge left the door open for 
the company to continue 
its quest after it revised the rights to better protect copyright holders. 
That leaves the only 
concern of Google having a monopoly on books. If it violates anti-trust laws, the courts will have to reject 
the proposal again. We’re 
hoping others can get in on the book revolution, if only so we can read until our 
eyes bleed.
Hey, Mike, we just wanted to let you know that just 
because you wield that enormous gavel doesn’t mean people aren’t going to call you out for chang-
ing your mind on ethics. 
That’s right, Senate President Haridopolos, we’re talk-
ing to you. 
We’re not buying that you didn’t know your office was 
pulling an ethics bill that you co-sponsored off the table sans explanation. Promising a separate ethics reform pack-age without specifying what it would entail also doesn’t satisfy us. Do you think we’re stupid? Well, that $75,000 check UF cut you for nine months of lecture, half of which 
was spent in Tallahassee, does make a strong case.
You look like a walking, talking case for the reform 
Florida needs, given your recent sketchy omissions on your financial disclosure forms. 
Maybe it’s time to admit you’re a little shady — most 
politicians are — and stand by the decision to lay down 
some new rules.
To Sen. Paula Dockery, who sponsored the bill, we say 
thanks. Despite Haridopolos’ strange reasons for the bill’s 
disappearance, we can see her move was well-intended. 
It makes sense to bar legislators from voting on bills that 
would benefit only them, their relatives or their compa-nies. Requiring legislators to detail any conflicts of interest when abstaining a vote also is warranted.
If we’ve got it wrong, and this all was just an accident, 
Mike, your forthcoming ethics legislation should be a rep-lica of the first.Ethics Omission
State senate president’s 
actions questionable
The devastating earthquake and ensuing tsunami 
that struck Japan earlier this month reminded us all of the ever-present danger of natural disasters 
and, more importantly, of the need for us to be as well prepared for them as possible — both as a society and as individuals.
However, the irony is that as the government spends 
hundreds of billions of dollars to prevent a man-made di-saster, it has chronically underfunded projects that would prevent extensive damage to life and property from natu-ral disasters. 
There is more than enough blame to pass around, as 
both parties have targeted funding dedicated to mitigat-ing disasters and providing relief. 
In the latest round of congressional budget cuts, the 
Republicans in the House have decided to eliminate fund-
ing for the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in Hawaii and 
sharply cut funding for the U.S. Geological Survey, which 
monitors volcanoes and earthquakes worldwide. This would render the center unable to upgrade tsunami mod-els and would severely hamper alerts, putting millions of lives along the Pacific at risk. 
Republican Steve King responded to this criticism: “I 
think we often overreact to emergencies, especially natu-ral disasters.” 
The reality of the situation is that the 62-year-old cen-
ter has saved countless lives. It is definitely not an overre-action to emergencies but instead minimizes the dangers to life and property. 
It’s truly irksome that the congressional delegation is 
more than willing to upkeep the $700 billion of spend-ing in defense but fails to see the need for the disaster monitoring that the center and the USGS provide against natural disasters. Another area slated for fund-
ing cuts is the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. This division of the Army traces its origin back to the days of the Continental Congress. It handles everything from infrastructural support to disaster preparedness. 
The most critical role the 
group plays is the management of the thousands of le-vees across the nation. However, despite the many years 
of chronic underfunding that led to the flooding of New 
Orleans during Hurricane Katrina, President Obama sug-
gested a $900-million cut to the program, leaving millions vulnerable. This is especially true in South Florida, where hundreds of thousands are protected from Lake Okeecho-
bee by an aging dike desperately in need of fortifications. 
The saddest part of the situation is that this might 
be the only part of the defense budget Republicans will 
agree to cut. 
All the proposed cuts mentioned in this article total to 
about $5 billion dollars, but the money goes toward fund-ing programs and services that save millions of lives and billions of dollars worth of property. 
To put this in perspective, the Pentagon has volun-
teered to cut $20 billion a year for the next five years; however, the department’s request to relinquish funding has fallen on deaf ears. Many of those elected see only foreign threats and dedicate hundreds of billions of dol-lars to defense, neglecting the threats natural disasters pose to the well-being of citizens and businesses across the country. 
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering 
major. His column appears on Thursdays.Lack of funds could prove disastrous
Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.org
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Our ideal of a transparent government has come 
under attack — an attack exacerbated by the ex-plosion of WikiLeaks on the Web last year. 
Most of the leaked information has been damning to 
some government agencies, but the group and its founder Julian Assange have faced disproportionate criticism.
Yet it’s not just WikiLeaks that has faced problems 
lately, as there have been other instances that seem to show that our ideal for a transparent government is just a talking point.
To be fair, I understand our government is simply try-
ing to prevent sensitive information from being spread 
throughout the world.
But it might be this same lack of transparency in our 
government that makes sources like WikiLeaks so appeal-
ing.
Some of the information released is trivial, but if it’s 
trivial it shouldn’t have been hidden in the first place.
But we have obtained some important information, 
mostly relating to our actions in our wars in both Iraq and Afghanistan. 
To me, this seems like the natural evolution of the rela-
tionship between war and the media.
In Vietnam we saw how the rise of television brought 
more unpopularity to the war. 
Now it’s the Internet’s turn, and it is certainly a much 
more dangerous beast than TV .Now we have people like Bradley 
Manning, the 23-year-old Army pri-vate from Oklahoma. Currently im-
prisoned, Manning has been charged 
with transferring classified data as well as aiding the en-
emy.
One of the allegations against Manning says he leaked 
a video of a U.S. helicopter mowing down Iraqi citizens — something we might want to know about.
Yes, the military occasionally will do regrettable things 
accidentally — it’s simply part of war.
That said, keeping these occurrences hidden does not 
help and serves only to exacerbate backlash when the public finally finds out.
Of course, while Manning shouldn’t have leaked some 
information, we must be careful in terms of how we pun-
ish him for his actions.
If they really can be defined as treasonous, then of 
course he must face the corresponding penalty. 
Until then, however, he cannot be treated harshly.
But according to his lawyer, Manning has had his 
clothing taken away from him for several nights, forcing him to sleep naked in his cell. 
Though he is given two blankets a night, both Man-
ning and his lawyer see his treatment as a form of hu-
miliation, adding to the stress of being kept in solitary 
confinement.This sort of punishment, and the support President Ba-
rack Obama seems to be giving it, is counter-intuitive to the governmental transparency the president pushed for during his campaign.
Yet another recent example takes place much closer to 
home in the civilian sector — specifically, the blogging scene.
In Minneapolis, blogger John Hoff was fined $60,000 
because one of his posts may have resulted in the loss of a 
local politician’s job. 
Jerry Moore, the politician in question, was found to 
have been accurately linked to mortgage fraud.
Despite being rightfully outed, Moore sued the blogger 
for damages relating to his job loss. 
Somehow the jury found this defense reasonable, and 
now Hoff has to pay for reporting the truth.
Now, this issue never would have occurred had it been 
a news agency, so why should a blogger be attacked?
Whether in our nation’s military or among the civil-
ian sector, these recent attacks against transparency are 
despicable. 
Our politicians and our armed forces are meant to 
serve their people, and as such we deserve to know as much as we can without repercussions to those who help 
the cause.
Zachary Davis; The Daily Reveille, Louisiana State U. via 
UWIRERepercussions for keeping government transparent unjustUWire
Zachary Davis
UWireListtheAvenue         thursday, march 24, 2011
Learn about a study that said 
youth may be having less sex.
Preview pop culture essay-
ist Chuck Klosterman’s upcoming Gainesville appearance.Avenue columnist Andrew Wyz-
an weighs in on a recent reaity TV-themed SAT prompt.ONLINE:PG 9: Get a preview of UF’s 
ninth annual Music Law Confer -
ence, and see what music indus-try experts will be speaking.Also, ever wonder what it would be like to do a Jane Fonda workout video? Avenue colum-nist Robert Imfeld takes on the challenge.PG 10: Check out some of the latest Gainesville street style in this week’s Lens Flair.PG 11: See what Miami-based musician Rachel Goodrich has in store for her performance in Gainesville this weekend.PG 12: Gamers, take the bait: Find out everything you need to know about the new Nintendo DS.INSIDE: 
by LAUREN GOLDWATCH: “Jersey Shore” season 
finale on MTV at 10 p.m.
Get your GTL on before the drama unfolds, 
and expect nothing less than heaps of de-bauchery. As if you’d really want to miss the last episode of “Jersey Shore.” Like, really.
SEE: “Miral”
Check out “Miral,” which exposes the Israeli-Palestinian conflict from the perspective of an everyday teenage girl.
LISTEN: “Just Can’t Get Enough” 
by The Black Eyed Peas
After performing at the 2011 Super Bowl, The BEP are back with another chart-topping hit. Download this jam for a slower beat and a classic Will.I.Am rapping sesh. 
DO: Relay For Life, at 5 p.m. Fri-
day at the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center
Take your team to the O’Connell Center for 
an evening of fundraising, inspiration and fun. Check out the Facebook event or email ufcollegesagainstcancer@yahoo.com for more information.A local tour of three alternative religions
By RICHARD O. STEHLI
avenue writer
College is a time for change and the mill of 
experiences, realizations and revelations. While 
it probably doesn’t bother most people when they change their majors, course schedules or political 
affiliations, what about when someone changes 
his or her faith?
If your beliefs — or lack thereof — have been 
shaken or shattered, you might be looking for something new. 
On campus, you can take a religion class, or 
you could check out any of the multitude of reli -
gious student organizations. 
Off campus, it’s no mystery there’s a Catholic 
church on University Avenue or, if you’re Jewish, that you can go to Hillel to learn about that reli -
gion. 
But beyond the faiths in plain sight, there lie 
communities of believers that can support those in search of their religious calling. Go explore these faiths and the people who practice them, and may -
be you’ll find a new home right here on earth or even beyond.
uHare Krishna (ISKCON)
The International Society for Krishna Con-
sciousness, or ISKCON, was founded in the ’60s in New York City. Members propagate the teachings of Krishna, as laid out in traditional Hindu scrip-ture, mainly the Bhagavata and Bhagavad Gita.
In ISKCON, the methodology of worship is 
known as bhakti yoga, encompassing methods 
of studying, worshiping and 
understanding Krishna. For 
example, members often chant or sing the Maha Man-tra, the holy names of Krishna and Rama. Other aspects of the religion involve creating a strong, supportive community 
of believers and living a simple, natural way of life. Members refrain from eating meat, fish and eggs 
and abstain from any substance that causes intox-
ication. This encourages their four-part Dharma, which consists of mercy, austerity, truthfulness and cleanliness.
Learning more about the religion and life -style propagated by the Hare Krishna movement 
couldn’t be easier. The Krishna House, at 214 NW 
14th St., is an excellent place to start learning. Visit the Krishna House in person for late lunch served weekdays from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., or visit http://www.krishnalunch.org to learn more and to see what opportunities are available for classes, workshops and service.  
uKagyu Buddhism
If you have an interest in Buddhism, you have 
local resources. Lama David Bole runs the Tradi-tional Acupuncture Center and is a teacher of Ti -
betan Kagyu Buddhism. 
All practices of Buddhism, including Kagyu, 
revolve around gaining an understanding of the teachings of the Buddha. Most do this through mantra and meditation.
Starting March 27, there will be a six-part 
weekly introduction to Buddhism course. The class 
will be held Sundays from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. at the 
Pride Community Center of North Central Florida, 3131 NW 13th St.
At 11 a.m. on Sundays, there is also a weekly Photo Illustration by Jessica Peng / Alligator
seeking the faith
With its large, diverse UF and Santa Fe College population, it’s no surprise Gainesville has a host of al-
ternative offerings: music, restaurants, art and fashion. However, the town that prides itself on UF football 
and basketball championships should also be recognized for its communities that practice lesser-known 
religions. Take a tour of three alternative religions with a presence in Gainesville. 
see RELIGION, page 10Thethursday, march 24, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Conference to feature live music, panel of music experts
By THOMAS NASSIFF
avenue contributing writer
In recent years, the easy acces-
sibility of digital music has stifled the 
music industry.
The early crumpling of once-mighty 
major record labels has spawned 
plenty of questions among industry experts and music fans alike. 
This weekend, music experts will 
attempt to answer some of these questions at UF’s Levin College of Law.
The ninth Annual Music Law Con-
ference, presented by the college’s Music Law Society, will be held Friday and Saturday.
Dubbed “DON’T PANIC: Navigating the Changing Universe of the Music 
Industry,” the conference will include 
music showcases as well as day-long panels and breakout sessions.
Things kick off at 10 p.m. Friday at 
:08 Nightclub, 201 W. University Ave., where bands Hollowbody Hellraisers, Fastlane, Big Boat and Pedagogy will play.
On Saturday, the main day, a panel 
of music experts will meet.
Stephanie Falcon, the president of 
the Music Law Society and the execu -
tive director of the Music Law Confer -
ence, said there will be five panels and two breakout sessions from 8 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. 
Among the 18 panelists are enter -
tainment attorneys, musicians and record label executives. The keynote 
speaker will be Greg Galloway, an at-
torney who has practiced entertain-ment law since 1988.
Also on the panel are local record 
label representatives Vinnie Fiorello, 
founder of  Paper + Plastick Records, and Var Thelin, founder of No Idea 
Records.
Topics include 
negotiating music 
contracts, do-it-
yourself techniques and a demo lis-tening panel for music professionals.
Sal Picataggio, the vice president 
of the Music Law Conference and the director of the conference’s Live Mu -sic Showcase, said the event is try -
ing to get back to its roots in its ninth year.
“For the first time in a while, we’re 
having multiple showcases,” Picatag-gio said. “We really wanted to get more involvement from local musicians.”
Another way the conference is 
getting back to its roots is by hosting Brian Mencher on the panel.
Mencher is a founder of Beame & 
Mencher LLP, and he founded the first Music Law Conference when he was studying law at UF in 2003.
He said the goal with the first con-
ference was to provide a place where businesses and artists could promote themselves and meet.
He wanted to put the Levin College of Law on the map, making it known 
as a place that produces quality enter -
tainment attorneys.
“Considering that this idea was 
started by students with very little 
support from the faculty aside from them just saying, ‘Go for it,’ it’s good to see that people have been inspired to continue it,” he said.
Falcon said she thinks the con-
ference will appeal to all kinds of students. She said even those who aren’t studying law could come to learn something interesting about the industry and about how things work behind the scenes.
“Anyone who is interested in music 
is going to come away with something new from this conference,” she said.
Jane Fonda is known for many things — sub-par acting and skewed political beliefs outstanding. However, Jane was quite the fitness beast back 
in her prime, producing a series of popular home workout videos. 
After doing some research, I was amazed at how 
her videos seemed to usher in a new era of popular fitness that focused exclusively on aerobics.
I wanted to see what the big deal was. To the de -
light of fitness junkies and leg-warmer fetishists ev -
erywhere, her videos still are available on YouTube. The one that started it all, in 1982, was “Workout: Starring Jane Fonda.” 
Of course, I had to try it out. Working out to this 
tape is something my mom used to do. If she could do it, I’d have no problem doing it, right? 
The tape starts off harmless enough. Ultra-typi-
cal, cheesy ’80s music rings in the video to a visual of Jane and her seven closest exercise pals stretch-ing in a circle.
Suddenly, she leaps into the air, jumps up and 
down, claps and shouts, “Are you ready to do the workout? Are you read to do the workout?” Her work -
out pals are noticeably ready to do the workout.
First comes the necessary stretching. We don’t 
want the homemakers following along to injure themselves, of course.
The first surprise comes as you’re stretching, feet 
spread apart, body bent at the waist, plunging your arms through the opening in your legs and hitting 
the ground with your hands before doing it again. 
“Swing through!” she screams, melodically 
matching the beat. 
“Wooo! Owww! Woooo! Ow!” Oh, yikes, I think to 
myself, I do hope her exercise pals are OK. 
The next surprise — a Jane Fonda voice-over — 
comes when you’re stretching your calves in a par -
ticular maneuver that will certainly have your friends 
questioning your sexuality should they ever catch 
you doing it.“Go for the burn! Come 
up as high as you can on your toes! Go for the burn!” Duly noted, Jane, but I’m a little busy worrying about not 
getting violated by  passers-
by who may see me through the window and think I’m suggesting something.
The stretching segues 
into cardiovascular exer -
cises: running in place, jumping jacks and jumping hip twists. Then she alternates between high-knee runs and low-knee runs. However, when she does 
the high-knee portion, she puts her left hand on her 
waist and raises her right hand, shaking it, totally doing a jazz hand. The only reason I can think of why she does it is that it’s just so fun to do!
Ten minutes in, we’re still doing basic arm cir -
cles. None of the women have weights. One of the two men grasps what looks like 2-pound weights, probably in a desperate effort to preserve what little dignity he has remaining in his gray tights.
I stopped the video once we had to spread our 
legs apart, bend our knees, tuck our elbows in and bounce softly. No one saw me, yet I was certain such a moment would come back to haunt me later.
I think one reason the videos were so popular 
is that women could get a burn going in the privacy of their own home, which is really the only place a 
woman should do this video, taking great care to 
make sure their lights are off and their curtains are shut. 
But maybe the main reason for the videos’ pop-
ularity is even simpler. Maybe people just wanted to see Jane Fonda, wearing a striped pink leotard, lavender tights and purple leg warmers, look abso-lutely insane as she performed her maneuvers. Her frantic energy, puffy hair and flailing arms really just made for some quality entertainment.Getting sweaty with Jane Fonda
Robert Imfeld
ColumnistCollege site Funny or Die to release original book series
By BRITTANY BRAVE
avenue writer
Whoever said books would die didn’t realize 
there was a way for them to be immortal.  
Funny or Die, the sketch comedy website 
started by Will Ferrell and Adam McKay in 2007, 
is preparing to release an original book series 
called “Funny or Die Books.” 
The collection will complement the humor 
that has attracted almost 40 million visitors to http://www.funnyordie.com, which features co-medic videos, blogs, pictures and more. 
Mike Farah, president of production, said the books will reflect what the website has come to represent: trusted comedy from different venues. Farah, who was born in Gainesville, said the ini-
tiative takes the comedy one step farther and is 
a natural extension for professionals and viewers alike. 
“So much of a comedian’s currency is built on 
what you can do on your own,” he said. “Origi-nal videos, touring, stand up — they’re all ways to 
connect and engage with your fans.”
Popular comedians and entertainers have 
been known to take their craft to print. With the rise in popularity of e-books and digital publish-ing, Farah said the series could change the belief 
that book publishing is a washed-up industry. 
Much of the website’s 
content features celebrities and other familiar faces, but the books will be a gateway 
for Funny or Die to explore 
the talent of its fans. The re -
lease is a real opportunity to 
push user submissions and 
hear voices with the support of a website or, more so, a 
growing brand, Farah said.After a soft announcement about the initia-
tive, Farah said the industry had a strong reac-tion. Although the project is still in its early stages 
and many of its details are still undecided, the 
company plans to get the books off the ground within a year.
Farah said the company is developing several 
TV show pilots, and he wouldn’t be surprised if a book premise evolved into a potential movie 
script. 
“One good thing about our company is that 
we’re willing to do new things,” he said. “Anything is possible.”books 
Healthy snacks for 
late-night studying
u WHEN IT COMES TO FULFILL-
ING THOSE LATE-NIGHT MUNCH-
IES, COLORFUL FOODS COULD BE HEALTHIEST, ACCORDING TO ONE UF DIETICIAN.
By ANDREW WYZAN
avenue writer
March is usually the month when 
students push themselves to get 
through the swath of exams and pa-
pers that come just shortly after that glorious, now-faint week of Spring Break. And, as such, it’s very easy to be tempted to munch on snacks 
through the ever-common all-night-
er. 
March also happens to be Na-
tional Nutrition Month, according to 
the American Dietetic Association.
This year’s theme is “Eating Right 
With Color,” and the association’s 
goal is to show how thinking about food in terms of color can actually 
make you a smarter eater.
“The more colors you have in a 
meal, the more range of food groups 
you have,” said Shannon Kirkpatrick, 
health promotion specialist for Ga-
torWell and a registered dietician. 
Identifying that the color orange 
is high in vitamin A and antioxidants and that greens are high in cal-
cium and vitamin C can help when 
choosing smart and tasty late-night snacks.
For those who spend their nights 
at the hottest club in town — Library West — with their noses buried in textbooks, Kirkpatrick said eating 
snacks that combine at least two 
food groups is best. She recom-mended whole-grain crackers, pre-sliced fruit and dried nuts because 
they’re quick and cheap.
However, not even the healthiest 
food is good for you in high quanti-
ties.
“Be careful on the portion siz-
es,” Kirkpatrick warned. “Nuts are high in fat. It’s healthy fat, but it’s easy to eat too 
many calories. A 
good serving size 
is what would fit into the palm of your hand.”
If you’re a slave to the fast-food 
burger trinity of McDonald’s, Burger King and Wendy’s, there are still ways to shave off some calories from your McDouble Whopper Baconator.
“If you add a lot of mayonnaise 
or oils  you can add up calories. A burger can be totally fine if you’re not eating [one] every day,” Kirkpat-
rick said. “Just watch out for condi-
ments. A special sauce is usually just mayonnaise mixed with some -
thing else.”
Farah10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, march 24, 2011
meditation course at the same 
place. Bole will lead students through a selection of Buddhist text and practice meditation.
“More than anything, Bud-
dhism is a science of the mind,” Bole said. “If you have a mind, you can benefit from practicing medi -
tation.”
For more information on Kagyu 
Buddhism in Gainesville, as well as class schedules and meeting times, visit http://www.davidbole.com or http://www.ktcgainesville.
org, or call the Traditional Acupunc -
ture Center at 352-335-1975.
uBaha’i
Founded in Iran in the 19th 
century by the prophet Baha’u’llah, Baha’i today has more than 5 mil-lion members worldwide. Baha’is believe in one true god, but not in the way God often is perceived in other monotheistic religions. Rather than a single god at odds with the gods of every other faith, 
Baha’is believe all religions repre -
sent a stage in the revelation of 
God’s will. Baha’u’llah’s teachings stress the unification of people as one, but members are encour -
aged to pursue an independent investigation of divine truth. 
Although Baha’i has no clergy 
and no formal church service, 
members hold study groups and 
programs to educate in the teach -
ings of Baha’u’llah. Most study groups are held by individuals in their homes, but the Baha’i Cen-ter of Gainesville, at 4451 NW 19th St., holds a weekly open de -
votional at 10 a.m. Sundays.
For more information on the 
Baha’i community in Gainesville, call 352- 375-5552 and visit ei-ther http://www.bahaigainesville.org or http://www.ufbahai.org.Baha’is encouraged to explore 
divine truth on their own
RELIGION , from page 10Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
UF junior 
Shannon 
Carnes 
dresses for 
spring in a 
floral dress. 
Paired with 
a neutral-
colored 
cardigan, 
belt and 
ballet flats, 
this business 
major’s 
bright orange 
dress is 
balanced and remains the main focus 
of her outfit.  UF senior 
Jeff Post 
opts for 
a pair of 
khakis and 
a polo shirt 
instead of 
gym clothes 
like his 
friends. This 
electrical
engineering 
major’s 
white 
Converse 
and messy 
hair give the outfit an overall laid-
back vibe.For the latest 
frills, flair and ev-
erything fashion, 
check out what 
our lens caught 
this week. 
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
thursday, march 24, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
Musician Rachel Goodrich to perform at The Laboratory
By BENJAMIN EVANS
avenue writer
For the last six years, Miami-
based folk musician Rachel Goodrich 
has played quirky pop songs with her band, charming audiences by strum -
ming a ukulele or guitar and bringing 
smiles to faces by doing kazoo riffs. Goodrich will bring her show and southern sound to Gainesville at 10 
p.m. Saturday, performing at The Laboratory, 818 W. University Ave.
Goodrich’s self-titled album was 
released in February and was a fol -
low-up to 2008’s “Tinker Toys.“ 
“The sound is always changing,” 
she said. “We’re always growing.”The new record features Regina 
Spektor-inspired tracks with unpre -
dictable melodies and fun lyrics about love, such as “My heart, well, it started racing 
like the police was chasing me.” But Goodrich trades Spektor’s Lower 
East Side city vibe for sunny south 
Florida sounds.
The release is a bit more person -
al, she said, even though she left be-hind bedroom recording to work with Grammy-nominated producer Greg Wells, who has worked with artists such as Weezer and Katy Perry.Despite getting attention from 
magazines like Vogue and Nylon — and her being called the Queen of the Miami indie rock scene by The New York Times — Goodrich seems determined not to let things get out of hand.
“You can’t let the pressure win 
you over,” she said.
 Like an election year, the year of a new console generation is 
full of long lines, media-driven chaos and eventual disappoint-ment. This Sunday, Nintendo will release the Nintendo 3DS, 
the successor to the system that sold more units than any other console in history. The hype machine has been in full swing in the  
industry thanks to the system’s much-ballyhooed 3D capabilities. 
Sony’s announcement of the NGP, a PSP with two touch screens and more tools than a Swiss army knife, and the rise of mobile gaming might make it hard to decide if you want to update your DS.  So, here are the important things to know about the new system:
 The 3D  The biggest draw of the 3DS is its 3D top screen, which can 
project 3D images without requiring specialized glasses. However, the 3D effects drain the battery and may induce headaches after prolonged exposure, but there’s a simple way to turn them off. However, for AAA titles specially made for 3D, such as “Kid Icarus” and an HD remake of “Ocarina of Time,” the feature should be mind-blowing.
  Bells and Whistles  The most important thing  a system’s 
successor should have is backward com-patibility. If I can’t play Pokemon on my 3DS because it plays only 3DS games, Nintendo clearly doesn’t want my money, 
and it doesn’t want yours. However, this isn’t the case as all DS games are playable on the 3DS — but nothing earlier than that is compatible (I’ll miss you, Golden Sun). Graphically, this little guy is predicted to be a beast, with graphics on par with the Wii. For all this nifty good stuff, the battery life takes the biggest hit, lasting only about three to ﬁ  ve hours opposed to the 13 to 19 hours that a DS can go for.
  Price
  Much like the price to see “Avatar” the way it was meant to be 
seen, the 3DS is going to set you back a bit — about  $250 in this 
case. For a handheld system, that’s rather ludicrous because its big brother the Wii sold for the same price four years ago and the DS debuted $100 cheaper. Nevertheless, the hardcore Nintendo fans,  a group I consider myself a part of, will still likely pony-up but probably not on opening day. With the release lineup of games in the mediocre range, I would recommend waiting until your must-have game arrives on the 3DS before buying the console. 12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, march 24, 2011
Gamer Bait
 L
ike an election year, the year of a new console generation is 
Gamer Bait
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistWhat to know about the Nintendo 3DS
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , MARCH 24, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
THE LANDINGS.
2/2.5 Townhomes
3/3 & 4/4 Flats
Call us at 352-336-3838!
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409 ***
Ask about our Apple TV  special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.
Avail. 8/15
$900/mo. call 877-833-2865   3-25-11-10-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Furnished 4bedroom4bath condo,W/D/
Dishwasher for 2011-2012 starting Aug16 1/2mi from UF on bus route, 3800 SW 20th Ave between UF and Butler Plaza $325/mo ++ per student 352-586-6468   3-29-11-10-1
Great 4/4 condo available immediately less 
than 5 miles from Campus. Washer/Dryer, balcony, in gated building. Furnished or not depending. On bus routes 9 & 35. Call 813-368-5325 for viewing or details. $350/month   3-25-5-1
**379/mo.** ONE BEDROOM (FEMALE) IN LEXINGTON CROSSING FOR SUMMER (MAY-JULY).3 BUS ROUTES. UTILITIES INCLUDED, ALL INCLUSIVE. 4/4- GREAT SUITE-MATES!! Contact:adav21@gmail.com -- 727-331-3762    3-24-4-11/1 in 3/3 windsor prk-sublease,
incl util/cable/internet $350 furnished 
9542241542 coltmaverick@ufl.edu   3-29-11-7-1
REDUCED RENT FOR QUALIFIED 
INDIVIDUAL WILLING TO SHOW APTS. 
IN QUADPLEX. NEWLY REHABBED & 
FURNISHED 2 BDRM w/W/D. ENTAILS 
MINOR DUTIES. NORMALLY RENTS $735/
MO. CALL 727-423-9463    4-8-11-13-1
FULLY FURNISHED, ALL INCLUSIVE 2/2 in 
the ENCLAVE. BOTH bedrooms are avail -
able April 29-July 31. $550/bedroom. Pets allowed. Gorgeous, new complex. (772)539-
1625.   3-25-11-2-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING!!
SPACIOUS 1050 Sqft 2BDR
ONLY $299/BED
www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
4-20-11-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 4752.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
4-20-10-70-2Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    4-7-11-50-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-
11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-25-11-22-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
3BR/2BA, 1940sq.ft. Quiet neighborhood. 
1.5 miles from U.F. Large fenced yard, wood 
floors, 2 car garage, and sun room. Available 
5/1. $1100/month. 3936 SW 3rd Ave. 352-
359-1270    3-25-11-15-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts
3 BLKS TO UF & Downtown!
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms, Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.
Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo $600 Deposit
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
216 SW 12th Street.
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit
3-31-11-15-2$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.    3-31-15-2
*March Madness!*
Luxury 2/2s for Fall
College Park--across from UF!
Starting @ $550/room
Sign w/in 48 hrs, Waive leasing fee!
352-371-7777
3-31-11-13-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     3-29-11-11-2
1700 sq ft 3BR/2BA House
Wood floors, large screened-in back porch, 
jacuzzi, W/D, corner lot $1400/mo Call  (352) 
258-9116 to see. Available Aug 1st.
4-5-11-15-2
HUGE 1 BR apt for quiet mature person 
Dine-in kitchen, carport space, large
enclosed patio, utilities - cable - internet
included, no pets. $750 2046 NW 14th Ave
395-6250 or 332-1429 Kathy    3-29-11-10-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1325 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 15
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
3-29-10-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com4-20-10-26-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-30-11-10-2
3bedroom $509/person
Amazing townhome with everything included! 
Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/
dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-
2801   4-20-25-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2
Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-24-252BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, bike 
to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwasher, 
garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. 
Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 16th Ave. 
$1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   5-12-11-
26-2
★Walk to UF★
2,3,4,5 bedrooms Avail Aug
walk2uf.com
4-20-24-2
********4 BLKS to UF/Historic House*******
Cute, charming 3 bd/2 bth house, hrdwood, 
tile, central AC, off street parking, W/D, patio, 
small pets OK, $1350/mth, avail Aug 1102 
NW 4th Ave, call 828.216.2565    3-24-5-2
OPEN HOUSE!
Free Food! Reduced Rates @ $275
Save up to $600! One Day Only!
Thursday March 24th from 4pm-6pm
Bivens Cove: 352-376-2507
3-24-11-4-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com   
4-1-11-10-2
Two blocks from UF Stadium 
3 Bed 1 Bath, 1 Bed 1 Bath, 
and Studio. Available Summer and/or Fall
352-377-2930        4-1-11-10-2
Magnolia Place 2br 2.5 bath Condo. 
Hardwood floors, granite counter top, like 
new.
Brand new washer/dryer and dishwasher in 
unit. Pool, clubhouse, tennis court. 
$899/month. Call 352 378 2548.    3-25-11-
5-2
HOUSE 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area 2BR $850, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
HOUSE 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area 3BR/2BA $1335, cent AC/heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets may-be, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
HOUSE 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area HUGE 4BR/2BA dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, $2350, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
HOUSES 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area. Large 4BR/2BA, w/dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plenty of parking! $1980. Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
SPRING SPECIAL!
Quiet 1bd 1ba 827sq ft loft.SW G'ville on RTS 10 min on freeway from SFCJust renovatd. swim pool, exercise room.$425mo call 472-6491 or 474-0841    4-1-11-10-2
3BR/3BA House, fenced yard, close to UF, 
open floor plan/cathedral ceilings, new tile, carpet, fixtures. W/D, lawn, and pest control incl. Small pets allowed, avail Aug, $1350/month. 352-246-5958, tonyc@kinetixpt.com    4-8-11-15-2
SAVE SOME GREEN! Fall specials
3 BR 1 mile to UF. $895 for WHOLE apt!W/D, H2O, sewer, gas incld.Sign by April 1st to get this AWESOME deal2700 SW Archer Rd 373-2700    4-1-9-2
●Close to UF, 2BR house, W/D, water incl $895
●1BR apt, yard, $450●Walk to UF, large 4BR house, parking, hardwood, W/D $1150Call 561-703-8490                   3-28-11-5-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1225 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   4-20-11-21-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    4-20-11-21-2
www.Bellaproperties.net
3/2 with study. Walk to UF, hardwood floors, 
fireplace, 2 car garage, full sevice tour
335-5424
4-20-20-2
WALK TO UF! ONE MONTH FREE!
3 blocks from Campus. New 2/2 Condo-each 
room has private bath + gourmet kitchen & 
laundry & parking. $650 per rm. mollydh@
aol.com 614-288-6730    4-1-11-7-2
www.BellaProperties.net
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
4-20-20-2.
FOR SUMMER, May, June, July, $275/
month +utilities,1 bedroom/bath, included internet, futon, 10 minutes to UF, SW 13th ST,Swimming-pool, laundry, fitness center, parking,David: 352-871-5399,dvasquezh@gmail.com     3-28-3-2
2 BR, 1 1/2 Bath, townhouse. Walk to UF 
campus and restaurantes. Washer/Dryer incl. Covered parking by front door. Furnished LV and DR available for free. Available Aug 1 or sooner. Call 380-0090    4-12-11-14-2
WALK TO UF
3 Bed 2 Bath House in upscale Golfview Estates near Law School & Athletic fields.$1400 mo. Aug 1. Call (305) 788-4103    4-20-11-19-2
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/T ext 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    4-20-11-20-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
After Spring Break,
there are less than 6 weeks 
left in the semester!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-30-3
Summer Sublease May-July $350/month includes utilities @ Gainesville Place Apartments 1/1 in a 4/4 42” plasma tv! Fully furnished (washer/dryer included)bbermudez@ufl.edu    3-29-5-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Roommate wanted
New 2/2.5 Fully Furnished except for bed-
room in Grantwood Condominiums 2.5 miles 
from UF
$550/month includes utilites & WiFi
Contact Kourtney 352-422-1448    3-25-10-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.
3-29-10-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-726-2915    4-5-11-15-4
HANDYMAN SPECIAL Share 2BR/2BA MH 
in Hidden Oaks. Furn rm incl elec, ph, cable, 
internet. Close to UF, bus, shopping. $200 
NR dep. $400/mo. NS, NA, ND. Handyman 
can work off most. Caged pets ok. 331-0762    
3-29-10-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 poolside condo at Countryside. Easy com-
mute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, 
W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. Text 850 585 
4405, 386 676 9703, nukken1@aol.com 
3-31-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Directbus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-682-9412    5-30-7-4
MOVE IN AUGUST-Need 1 female stu-dent to share clean 2/2 furnished condo in Rockwood Villas. Easy commute UF/SFC on bus rte. No pets/smoking. $450/mo. includes all utilites, W/D. Yrly lease. Text 727-494-4503, surfinbean@gmail.com    4-4-11-7-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
16, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011
3 / 2 on Country Woodsy 5 Acres
Owner Finance Low Down
Quick Estate Family Anixous
Low Taxes and Insurance
Call 727-541-2173  or  386-362-6293     3-30-
11-5-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899
___________________________________.
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
Furniture for sale-Like New. Reasonable!
UF Student Graduating. Queen Bed, Triple
Dresser & Chest, 2 Night Stands, Liv.
Room-Sofa, Love Seat, Desk Workstation
& Leather Chair, TV Stand, Cocktail Table.
$1,500 call 954-275-4008
3-31-11-10-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
Estate Sale
March 26th - April 2nd
For Information Call
727-541-2173 or 386-456-8832      3-30-11-
5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come with one year parts and labor warranties! Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
3-31-10-38-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESAll vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-1292 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!Call Gary at 352-682-8838,email dlimotors@yahoo.com orstop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      3-25-11-70-13 Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
4-20-20-14What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 17
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN 
or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or 
send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Lifeguard-Certification Required
$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.
State Mental Hlth Treatment Fac
Call Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-
18-14
The Village, an upscale retirement commu-
nity, is seeking a full-time Nurse Manager. 
The ideal candidate will have the following 
skills / experience:
- Current and valid license in the State of 
Florida as an RN
- Experience with Memory Support
- One to three years experience in a geriatric 
setting
- One to three years management experi -
ence
- Excellent interpersonal skills
-Please see www.thevillageonline.com/jobs 
for more information!      3-28-11-14-14
Love writing? Looking for writers for origi-
nal articles & product descriptions for 
multiple IT websites. Earn up to $150-$300/
wk from your location. Must have excellent 
grammar & writing skills. 626-602-5254
4-12-11-20-14
Remedy Staffing now offers Free Video 
Resumes. Add to you Facebook profile, Linkedin and many other social sites.Call 672.6080 x-3 or emailstephenw@remedystaff.com to schedule.4-12-11-20-4
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonalrecreation and aquatics positionsCompetitive pay in great workenvironment! Apply online todayat www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, 
salary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.                       3-31-11-12-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    3-29-11-10-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14PT NANNY needed M-F start by MAR 28;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk; travel w/ mom;
3yr old / 10 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    3-30-
11-10-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-
14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-
11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village 
is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a 
Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full 
time Life Coach positions available in both 
Independent and Assisted Living. Come 
and be a part of our growing team! These 
positions play a support role in planning, or-
ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-
ment program that promotes total health and 
wellness of each resident living here at The Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-ence conducting group programs with strong 
interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-
sion for working with older adults is a must. In 
addition to experience with social programs, individuals with a theology background and/or fitness experience are encouraged to apply. 
please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     
5-17-11-27-14
PROPERTY MANAGER
PT - Friendly, energetic person.
Requires good communication skills,
sales &/or mgmt. exp. & computer
knowledge. Great benefits. Must be
avail. wknds. Apply in person CMC
2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B DFWP
4-20-11-24-14
LEASING AGENT PT
Friendly, energetic person. 20-30 hrs./wk.
Exp. preferred. Hourly & bonus. Must be
avail. wknds. Apply in person CMC
2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B  DFWP
4-20-11-24-14
Child Care Director - Part time
1+ year experience with school age children
Strong leadership & communication skills
Sundays 9am-noon. $13-$15/hr, DOE
Must be CPR & first aid certified
Apply in person: M-F 8am-4pm
United Church of Gainesville
1624 NW 5th Avenue
www.ucgainesville.org
4-1-11-11-14MOTHER'S HELPER FOR 5 AND 7 YR OLD.
M-F 2:30-5:30. Student of sp. needs with exp
pref. Loving, good driver, reliable car must.
Good pay + std mileage. Send resume and
references to alligatornanny@gmail.com
3-24-11-5-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
 Summer Camp, Aquatics, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning/Maint., Drivers.
Applications at www.suncountrysports.com.
Email HR@suncountrysports.com for info.
Camp interviews begin 3/22!
3-24-11-5-14
SMOKERS NEEDED
...to participate in a study assessing the 
effects of various activities on smoking. 
Compensation will be provided! If inter-
ested, call 336-406-3706 or email us at 
uflsmokelab@gmail.comv    3-28-7-14
Women ages 35-50 needed for research par-
ticipation in a perceived age study. Involves 
2-3 hours of voice recording in a lab setting. 
Paid $15/an hour. For more information, con-
tact spl.ufl@gmail.com.    3-25-11-5-14
WEB DEVELOPER
part time, Dreamhost environment. On-call 
troubleshooting and update. One page re-sume to: mog@digistrat.com   3-29-11-5-14
CJ's NOW HIRING
EXPERIENCED SERVERS, BARTENDER, 
KITCHEN MANAGER (bring CV).
Please apply in person 3501 SW 2nd Ave. 
CalicoJacks.net, 352-371-1675,   3-30-11-
5-14
SPANISH TRANSLATOR
Gleim Publications is looking for candidates 
that can translate accounting material from 
English to Spanish. Must be native Spanish 
speaker who spent formative years and high 
school in their native country. Four year ac-
counting degree.
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.   4-5-11-10-14
TECH SUPPORT
LINUX ADMINSALES REPSADMIN ASST
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.  4-5-11-10-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
Earn bonuses and residuals selling patented marketing technology from a publicly traded dotcom. Fore more information contact Cathy peopledeals4u@gmail.com   3-24-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696
3-31-20-15
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
ARC Lifeguard TrainingStarts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
CPR training is back!
Need CPR/AED or 1st Aid?Meets internship requirementsFloridaHeartsaver.org(352)575-0119                        4-8-20-16
Internal Medicine doctors at the University of Florida are currently looking for people with poorly controlled Type 2 (adult onset) diabetes who may also have low Vitamin D level for a clinical study. The study will look at the effect of Vitamin D replacement on im-
proving your diabetes control. Study-related 
medical care and monetary compensa -
tion may be provided for your time. Please contact Karen Brezner at     352-273-8661.                        3-30-11-11-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.com
then call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, Natz, H1B Visas
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
(904) 425-8078
4-4-14-18
Tired of hollow hook-ups?
Fed up with being fat?
Sick of shallow sex?
Longing for love? .  .  .
Want to talk about it?
Maintain anonymity - radio
Talk LIVE with doctorberry
Call toll free 855.372.3779
Saturday’s 9 pm-midnight EST
3-25-11-5-19
Mature artist looking for attractive, with sense 
of humor, lady to share my 4BR apt and help 
me rearrange things and shop to make a 
comforable home for the two of us. I will pay 
all the bills so you won't need money - but I 
don't drive and we need a car which I will pay 
for. Object, fun living and who knows. Call 
Bob 352-226-8449    3-28-5-19
Casting call for feature film: The Best 
Western Gateway Grand at the Northwest quadrant of the intersection of I-75 and exit 390. April 2nd, 9am - 4pm. Please visitwww.SwampTales.us for more information.4-1-11-13-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Chiht-Zu - Multicolor
Male & female, 16 wks old. All shots & medi-cal records. Incl all toys, pens/crates, etc. Price negotiable to good home. Call for de-tails. 352-284-0881 or horses2596@aol.com    3-30-11-5-24
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42x
Any info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
From the moment their tiny toes first 
peeled from the gym’s worn, leather mats, 
their clocks began to tick.
Gymnasts leap into their careers at a 
young, tender age. From that point on, it’s 
full speed ahead.
They learn to turn teetering footsteps 
into tumbles and dismounts, flipping 
through the air with such precision and grace that they seem to defy all laws of gravity. 
But, of course, gravity eventually sets 
in. 
Those landings, swings, tumbles and 
turns begin to wear on their fragile bod-ies.
Their ligaments tear, their bones snap 
and the only tool they use in gymnastics becomes flawed.  
Because the craft is merciless, pound-
ing down the body from such a young age, gymnasts’ careers are mostly over when they begin competing in college. Injuries 
rack up, and by the time gymnasts have 
reached their 20s, their bodies have aged exponentially. 
“They’re kind of entering what I would 
consider the end of their careers as gym-nasts,” UF gymnastics’ athletic trainer Sta-cey Higgins said. “You would see athletes as they’re getting kind of older and getting ready to retire — well, that’s where these 
girls are.” 
l A Painful Routine l 
This was all too real for one Gator, 
freshman Brittney Noble, who recently 
found out her back injuries have put an end to her college career before it could even really begin.  
But Higgins said it is rare that UF gets 
a gymnast who is not injured in some way. Those who can push through the pain, like Noble did all season, work tirelessly to press on.
“They train when other athletes or just 
regular people would not be able to do the things they do,” Higgins said. “They’ve done it their whole lives, and that’s their mindset. They find something to do to keep them doing gymnastics even when they’re injured.”
In practice, the injured athletes have 
workouts tailored to their breaks, tears and twists, training for the events in which they can compete around their limitations.
However, that requires far more than 
just a different practice routine.
The already strenuous life of a student-
athlete becomes even more grueling when mending a physical pain.
The injured gymnasts begin their days 
with rehabilitation in the Lemerand Ath-letic Facility for about an hour. Then, they tack on an additional hour of treatment both before and after practice. Add in doc-tors appointments on top of all of that.
Sophomore Marissa King, who under -
went foot and shoulder injuries earlier this year, admitted rehabilitation is long and 
tiring. 
“Having to do that every day, it’s te-
dious,” she said. 
King eventually grew frustrated with 
the repetitive rehab and stopped her treat-
ment, jumping right into a bars routine at the UF intrasquad meet in December, when she re-injured her shoulder. Her mistake cost her, as she was only able to return to the bars for the last three regular-season meets. 
“I realized I have to keep doing rehab 
and listening to the trainers,” she said. “They are right, and they are doing the 
best they can to get you fit and healthy for 
competition.” 
l Leap of Faith l
Patience with injuries was a problem 
that also stemmed in senior Maranda Smith, beginning when she was 8 years old.
“When I was younger, my injuries were 
harder on me because I didn’t understand them,” Smith said. “I didn’t understand that the body needed time to heal. All I wanted to do was go do gymnastics.”
Smith had more serious injuries in the 
later years of her career, most notably when she was competing as a freshman for UCLA. 
She was practicing her floor routine 
when her shin snapped. 
“I got the surgery thinking it was go-
ing to be any easy fix and that I’d be back in the gym right away,” she said. “That didn’t happen. I had to be more patient and rehab and learn how to walk again, and be a normal person and not an athlete first.”
After two years, Smith was finally able 
to continue her career, transferring to UF in 2008.
Smith overcame her injury and is now 
a top performer for the Gators, competing 
on floor exercise and vault. Last week in 
the Southeastern Conference Champion-ships, she tied for third overall with a 9.9 for her floor performance. 
Smith stressed that when dealing with 
injuries, it wasn’t only what she did with her body that helped her bounce back.
“It turned into a mental game where, 
instead of practicing it physically, I’d prac-
tice it in my head,” Smith said. “Me visual-
izing and feeling what my body would be doing if I were doing a skill.”
When she was able to start doing gym-
nastics again, she said she could mentally picture what it was like to perform, so it was easier to get back out there again. 
But returning to competition can be ter -
rifying — especially in the skill the gym-
nast was performing when the injury oc-
curred. 
While Smith’s injury came to light when 
she was practicing her floor exercise, she admitted it was nerve-wracking when she took the floor once again. But she contin-ued her mental training, telling herself it was OK because she was healed.
Even on bars, King said she knows 
she should not psych herself out over her shoulder injury. 
“On my bar routine, I can still feel the 
shoulder injury,” King said. “I know it’s 
there, but it is healed. And you know 
what? I have a job to do, and I’m focus-ing on my routine and I’ll deal with that later.”
Their minds are further tested when the 
injured gymnasts are at the meets in sweats while the rest of the team is in leotards, readying themselves for competition. 
“I’m seeing all my other teammates 
competing and doing really well, I want to do that for myself,” King said. “It’s dif-ficult to put yourself in that situation, but it’s not all about you. It’s about the team.”
Smith said she, too, had difficulty with 
patience in recovering as she watched her teammates grow and improve while she was healing. 
l The Right Balance l
Accepting a role on the sidelines isn’t 
all the Gators have to do when they are 
injured. In gymnastics, it goes one step further. 
They must brush aside their own sor -
rows and flash a smile. 
If they are unable to compete, they rise 
to a new role.  
“They have to be able to balance the in-
ner sadness or frustration that they have from being injured and not being able to 
get out there,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. 
“They have to understand they have a new role for the year. 
“That role is to be the most supportive 
teammate that they can be and to really help everyone else.”
Gymnasts on the sideline are expected 
to cheer as loud as they can while uphold-ing the responsibility of moving the mats 
for their teammates during competitions. 
Sophomore Liz Green has gotten espe-
cially familiar with the role this season. 
Unlike Smith and King, Green hasn’t 
been cleared to return to competition due 
to a back injury. 
But Green thinks it was meant to be this 
way.
“I believe that God has a reason for ev-
erything and timing for everything,” she said. “I feel like if it’s not meant to be this 
season, I’m going to heal and get rested for 
next season. 
“We’re each a piece of the puzzle to this 
team and I think that this year really I just found a different way to try to step in and fill a different spot.”
And for those whose bodies are unable 
to mend and who can’t bounce back into competition to finish the tail end of their 
gymnastics careers, there is always a sup-
portive role that needs to be filled.
Like Noble, current student coach Kai-
ley Tissue endured career-ending injuries on her knees and shins, but that’s not keeping her off the mats. 
“She chose to put her passion into help-
ing out the team,” Faehn said. “She still feels like, even though she’s not out there 
performing, she can still help this program 
and share her love and her passion and ex-citement with the team because this is her 
family. 
“The same thing is going to be with 
Brittany.”18, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011
Saj Guevara / Alligator
Florida sophomore Marissa King is one of many Gators gymnasts to suffer recurring 
injuries throughout her young career. King had foot and shoulder surgeries this year.
Pushing Through 
Injuries take physical, mental toll on gymnastsSports
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n FLORIDA WILL TAKE ON 
CHARLOTTE TONIGHT AT 7.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
Programs like Florida don’t aspire 
to simply make the postseason; they 
want to win NCAA titles. A trip to the Women’s National Invitation Tourna-
ment is merely a consolation prize.
Such shortcomings can have a dam-
aging effect on a team’s mentality. But the Gators don’t seem to have noticed.
UF dethroned two conference 
champs in UMBC and Florida Gulf Coast in rounds one and two of the 
WNIT, ending FGCU’s 42-game home winning streak in the process. And the 
Gators are three wins away from the 
program’s first postseason title. 
In a rematch from the Preseason 
NIT, Florida (20-14, 7-9 Southeast-ern Conference) will travel to North Carolina tonight at 7 to take on Char -
lotte (25-9, 9-5 Atlantic 10) in the third round in Halton Arena with a berth in the quarterfinals on the line.
While the WNIT’s round of 16 
doesn’t share a sugary name with its NCAA counterpart, the Gators are still 
brimming with excitement at the op-
portunity to continue their season.
A day removed from the Gators’ 
win over FGCU, guard Jordan Jones said, “We have a lot of confidence right now. I’m sure a lot of us wish we were 
playing again (Tuesday).” 
Florida has won six of its last 
seven games, with the only loss com-ing against Southeastern Conference 
champion Tennessee, and have a leg up on Charlotte entering tonight’s 
matchup.
The Gators defeated the 49ers 76-70 
at home on Nov. 15. Plus, coach Aman-da Butler headed Charlotte’s program 
for two years before taking the Florida job in 2007 and said she continues to 
follow the team’s progress.
After defeating Florida Gulf Coast, 
Butler said her team was anxious to be-gin preparing, so they started watching 
film on Charlotte on the bus ride back from Fort Myers.
“You want to feel like you have the 
more excited team every day, not just when you take the floor,” Butler said. 
“They’re fired up about the opportu-
nity to play Charlotte.”
But coming off a 69-57 victory at 
South Carolina, the 49ers are likely to come in riding just as high.  Char -
lotte has won four of its last five and is 
making its first appearance in the third round of the WNIT. 
The 49ers’ 25 wins are a school 
record, and they have lost just four 
games at home this season. 
“We beat them by six points, so 
I’m sure they think that they kind of let one get away from them,” Jones said. “We’re excited to go up there and 
hopefully take care of business.”
Jones had 19 points against Char -
lotte back in November but was lim-
ited to just two points against FGCU after her and fellow guard Lanita Bart-
ley got into early foul trouble.
Bartley was relatively quiet in that 
initial Charlotte game, picking up six points and dishing four assists, 
and said the first thing that comes to mind when scouting the 49ers is their guards.
Bartley spent much of her time on 
the court trying to slow down Epiph-any Woodson, who dropped 23 on 
the Gators. Woodson and guard Shan-
non McCallum average 12.3 and 12.5 points, respectively, and are keys to 
Charlotte’s dynamic transition offense.
While the 49ers provide a formi-
dable matchup, Jones said the Gators 
are simply amped to still be playing basketball.
“There’s a lot of people right now 
who are laying out by the pool,” she said. “We’re in the gym working on 
plays and scouting our next opponent. 
We’re not ready to be seniors yet.”
POLL RESULTS ONLINE SIX GYMNASTS NAMED ALL-SEC TRACK AND FIELD NEWS
Previous question:  
Where will the Florida men’s basketball team’s NCAA Tournament run end? Percent (Votes)
Sweet 16 74% (219)
Final Four 11% (32)
NCAA title 9% (26)
Elite Eight 5% (14)
Runner-up 2% (5)
296 TOTAL VOTESn The Florida men’s track and field 
team was ranked No. 1 in the USTFC-CCA outdoor computer rankings, released Wednesday. The Gators won the national indoor title this year.n Ashanée Dickerson and Alaina 
Johnson made the All-SEC First Team, while Nicole Ellis, Alicia Goodwin, Ma -
rissa King and Maranda Smith picked up second-team honors Wednesday.n Go to alligatorSports.org for a 
game recap of the Florida lacrosse team’s 15-7 win over Fairfield and a preview of the UF men’s swimming team’s NCAA Championships meet.Saj Guevara / Alligator
Florida junior guard Jordan Jones says the Gators are playing with a lot of confidence entering their third-round WNIT matchup against Charlotte.
UF excited to continue WNIT run
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
Alex Panteliodis is starting to return to form.
Last season’s ace got off to a rocky start this year 
following offseason hip surgery, but the southpaw recorded his best outing of the season Wednesday as No. 1 UF (20-2, 3-0 Southeastern Conference) blanked 
Winthrop (9-11, 2-1 Big South) 10-0, completing a 
two-game midweek sweep.
“I’ve improved a lot after the surgery and every-
thing, just trying to get back out there,” Panteliodis said. “It’s just one step at a time. … I’m very close to where I was last year.” 
Panteliodis (2-0) lasted six scoreless innings 
against the Eagles, giving up three hits and one walk with two strikeouts in 61 pitches.
The lefty worked efficiently all night, throwing no 
more than 12 pitches in any inning. He threw nine in each the third, fourth and fifth innings.
While Panteliodis was effective hitting his spots, 
he also got some help from his defense, particularly in the fourth. Left fielder Daniel Pigott robbed Win-
throp’s Patrick Gamblin of a home run to lead off the inning. Three bat-ters later, shortstop Nolan Fontana 
made a diving stop on a ground ball 
up the middle and tagged second to end one of the Eagles’ few scoring opportunities.
“[My confidence] is going through the roof, just 
being able to hit my spots,” Panteliodis said. “The defense behind me, of course, they’re going to make plays for me, so I just got to let them do that.”
Pigott not only flashed his glove in left for Florida, 
he also got the night started on offense. After reach-ing on a fielder’s choice in the first, Pigott scored the opening run of the game when Winthrop shortstop Adam Gliebe committed an error on an Austin Mad-dox grounder.
Florida added another run in each of the next two 
innings before Winthrop starter Matt Pierpont found a groove and retired 10 straight Gators.
Junior Preston Tucker ended Florida’s drought at 
the plate in the sixth when he belted a solo shot off the scoreboard in right to push UF’s lead to 4-0.
Tucker’s fifth round-tripper of the season sparked 
a seven-run inning for the Gators, as they sent 12 hit-ters to the plate.
Josh Adams and Tucker recorded multiple RBIs in 
the inning, and Tucker blooped an RBI double down the third-base line, becoming the first Gator to have two hits in an inning since Tyler Thompson against Oregon State last June.
“Our hitters had a tough time adjusting the first 
two times around,” Tucker said. “But I think when 
our bats are hot, hitting is contagious. When I put a 
good swing on it, a few other guys rallied behind me and things worked out from there.”Panteliodis keys 
Gators’ victory
BaseballBy ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
When Chandler Parsons was in first grade, 
back at Highlands Elementary School, he had 
to draw a picture showing what he wanted to do when he grew up.
That illustration, saved and treasured to 
this day by teacher Kim Boss, shows an adult Parsons wearing a basketball jersey . It had no team logo. Not the championship-winning Chicago Bulls or the nearby Orlando Magic.
The jersey simply read “NBA.”“He’s had that dream for a long time,” said 
Terri Parsons, his mother. “She’s going to send that to him when he makes it to the NBA.”
Making the leap to pro basketball seemed 
inevitable when the talented swingman came to Florida in 2007, leaving Lake Howell High with impressive accolades, rave reviews and outrageous expectations of what he would ac-complish at UF.
Florida coach Billy Donovan saw it right 
away, smiling as he looked back at how Par -
sons thought he would lead the Gators to the Final Four, leave after his freshman year, get 
drafted in the first round and instantly become 
an NBA All-Star.
“I came in here as a freshman with the com-
plete wrong mindset,” Parsons said. “I came in here thinking just because I’m here at Florida they’ve won two back-to-back national cham-pionships, I’m going to do what these guys did, I’m going to be the next Corey Brewer.”
He flashed his potential early on with the 
Gators, contributing respectable statistics in his first two years.
But by the end of his sophomore year, that 
was all Parsons had: potential, and two Na-tional Invitation Tournament appearances to go along with it.
Nearly two years later, Parsons has put it 
all together, transforming into the versatile NBA prospect everyone knew he could be and 
this season’s Southeastern Conference Player 
of the Year.
Some might view Parsons’ development 
as a giant leap forward — the result of a light-bulb moment in which the Gators forward fi-nally “got it.”
But the truth is, he simply grew up.“He got older,” ESPN college basketball 
analyst Jay Bilas said. “He’s had the normal 
maturation of a really good player.”
n n n
Following in the footsteps of the ‘04s and 
their back-to-back national titles, Parsons 
thought championships were his birthright. 
He first stepped foot on UF’s campus as 
Rivals.com’s 19th-best prospect in 2007, fea-
turing a buzzcut and an undeserved sense of 
entitlement. Part of a recruiting class that in-cluded friend and high school teammate Nick Calathes, Parsons’ rangy frame and outside shooting made scouts salivate.
“He had a lot of potential when he got 
there. He was kind of raw and looked like a young colt, really,” Bilas said. “I liked him the best out of all the young players Billy had back 
then.”
But for everything the Gators had in young 
talent, they lacked in leadership, experience 
and production on the court. Instead of hang-ing NCAA Championship banners in the O’Connell Center, they found themselves in the NIT two years in a row.
“There was no real leadership there, so 
they were kind of floundering about,” said 
Gary Parsons, his father. “Billy was getting 
frustrated and the kids had a little sense of en-titlement because they had Florida on the front of their jerseys.”
Often playing out of position as a power 
forward, Parsons averaged 8.1 points and four rebounds per game off the bench. He improved those numbers to 9.2 and 5.7 as a sophomore. At the time, that was good enough for Parsons, as his primary focus was personal success.
His development at UF mirrored his high 
school career, Gary Parsons said. Glimmers of potential would shine through from time to time, notably in a Jan. 25, 2009, game at Van-
derbilt, where Parsons hit seven three-pointers 
and scored 27 points.
But still, his focus wasn’t right. From game 
to game, he was wildly inconsistent. 
Looking back, Donovan called him a “di-
saster” at the end of close contests. 
When guard Erving Walker was a freshman 
in 2008, he said he would never have thought to ask Parsons for any kind of advice.
All that kept him from developing into 
the kind of leader Florida needed, the one he would eventually become. 
 “He never focused on the things that were 
preventing him from reaching his potential,” Donovan said. “He thought his things were physical: ‘I’ve got to get quicker; I’ve got to get stronger.’ No, you need to change your ap-proach. Your mental approach to what this is 
all about needs to change.”
While that process certainly didn’t happen 
overnight, Parsons was partially thrust into 
a leadership role that demanded more matu-rity based on one decision — and it wasn’t his own.
Calathes left Florida after two excellent sta-
tistical seasons, getting selected in the second round of the NBA Draft but ultimately landing 
in Greece to play professionally.
On and off the court, the loss of his friend, 
high school teammate and the Gators’ primary 
ball handler and scorer affected Parsons. 
When he came back as a junior, he ditched 
the buzzcut for a shaggy mop-top and his per -
sonal goals for a team-first attitude, becoming the heart of Florida’s team and displaying his versatility as a shooter, rebounder and passer.
“The best thing for Chandler was Nick leav-
ing for Greece,” Gary Parsons said. “It gave Chandler an opportunity to prove to Donovan and to his teammates that he had a lot of po-tential, a lot of skill and a lot of capability.”
n n nAdam Allen, one of the three remaining 
members of the Gators’ No.1-ranked Class of 2007, recently summed up the freshman ver -
sion of Parsons with two words.
“So clueless.”
But as a junior, Parsons was a changed 
man. 
He made the extra pass on offense, accept-
ed greater challenges on defense and relent-
lessly crashed the glass on both sides of the floor. 
He watched so much game film that he 
broke buttons on his remote control. 
“Over the years, he’s just learned the 
game so well. He treats it like a job now,” Al-len said. “Now, he just knows what’s going on, and he’s turned into a great player.”
Once a nightmare in clutch situations, 
Parsons drained two game-winning buzzer-beaters that propelled him into the national spotlight.
His father said Parsons’ confidence sky-
rocketed after hitting the two highlight-reel 
shots in less than three weeks last January, 
helping him feel more comfortable with his place in the college game. 
Both of Parsons’ parents said their son 
never doubted himself or his abilities, but he was humbled by the personal and team-wide disappointments of his first two seasons at Florida. 
As Parsons finally tackled the issues that 
held him back as an underclassman and con-tinued to mature mentally and physically, he began to realize his potential.
“Chandler’s always had confidence, but 
I really do think it grew more when he was there,” Terri Parsons said. “He realized hard work and doing the right thing and being a team player would pay off. I think it gave him a whole different perspective.”
It gave Parsons a whole different look 
on the floor, too. Returning to his natural position at small forward, he averaged 12.4 points, 6.9 rebounds and 2.6 assists per game last season. 
He quickly gained his teammates’ respect 
as a leader, and Donovan saw it as well. The things UF’s coach had been saying the previ-ous two years finally registered with Parsons, 
and it showed in practice and on the court.
“Chandler’s made an incredible jump 
mentally,” Donovan said. “An incredible 
jump. As big of a jump as Joakim Noah made as a player, that is the jump that Chandler has made going into the games and understand-ing what he needs to do.”
Parsons’ growth continued this season, 
as he developed a more selfless attitude and led Florida to its second consecutive NCAA Tournament and, perhaps ironically, ended up earning Parsons individual honors as well.
The senior was named Florida’s first-ever 
Southeastern Conference Player of the Year, led the Gators to a regular-season SEC Cham-pionship and is averaging 11.4 points, 7.7 re-bounds and 3.7 assists per game.
“I feel like I just needed to be in the right 
mindset and not worry about everything else, not worry about any distractions out there,” Parsons said. “I just need to focus on basket-
ball and get better and worry about my team 
and what I can do to help winning.”
n n n
It took a completely changed mentality, 
a few years of development and significant-
ly more work than anticipated, but Parsons 
has now reached the level of play he ex-
pected would come naturally.
And with his improvement has come 
increased exposure on campus and around the nation. Parsons has become the face of Florida basketball in the post-04’s era, a 
constant presence in the community and 
an ambassador for the program to the local 
and national media.
“He’s never one to shy away from doing 
those kind of things,” said Fred Demarest, 
the NCAA’s associate director of public/
media relations and a former UF sports in-
formation director. “He’s always tried to 
put Florida basketball in as much of a spot-
light as he could.”
With his unabashed confidence, comfort 
in front of a camera — and a college degree in telecommunications, which he will re-
ceive in April — Parsons hopes to spin his 
success on the court into a career on televi-sion when his playing days are over.
And he has his eye on one job in particu-
lar.
“I think it’s kind of cute, and I love it 
when he teases that he’d like to take over 
Jay Bilas’ job,” Terri Parsons said. “That 
would be awesome.”
Before that, however, Parsons hopes to 
make a name for himself in the NBA. He 
visited Calathes in Greece last summer and, 
according to Gary Parsons, wasn’t thrilled with the idea of playing overseas. 
Parsons has received plenty of attention 
from pro scouts, and most NBA Draft pro-jections have him falling somewhere in the second round. 
But his father said the family has been 
getting calls from agents and hearing their 
son might have played his way into the first 
round and a guaranteed contract.
“He deserves all the credit, because you 
know what, he was the one that put all the 
work in,” Donovan said. “Because of his 
approach, I think he’s going to have a ca-reer at the next level somewhere. I really 
believe that.”
But with Florida in the middle of the 
NCAA Tournament run he initially envi-
sioned, Parsons isn’t ready for his college 
career to end.
Four wins, or one loss, still keep him 
from making his first-grade dream a real-ity, 
“It’s all or nothing from here on out. It’s 
crazy. It’s flown by and time has gone very 
fast, and I’ve enjoyed my time here,” Par -
sons said. “As soon as we lose, we’re done, 
so I don’t want that to come for another three weeks.”20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Chandler Parsons has grown from a talented, unfocused freshman into 
the Southeastern Conference Player of the Year and a bona fide NBA prospect.
Dreaming and Delivering
Parsons fulfills potential, continues to raise expectations