We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 31 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n  Florida base -
ball coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan (right) 
said the Gators 
have easily ad -
justed to the new 
metal bat rules in 
college baseball 
introduced to de-
crease run scoring.
See Story, Page 17.BERLIN — Children of Germany take 
heart — it may soon be perfectly legal to make 
noise.
Germany is so desperate to encourage 
people to have more children that the gov-ernment is proposing a bill allowing citizens under six to laugh, shout and play at any vol-ume.
Germany is a land of many rules, espe-
cially about noise. The government’s move comes after a series of lawsuits about children and noise, and a recent call from a senior citi-zens’ chapter of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives, who sought to ban kindergar -
tens from residential areas because they are too loud.
The government said Wednesday the pro-
posed law would exempt children from strict regulations on noise limits, which force con-struction sites to stand idle for hours at mid-day and prohibit mowing lawns on Sunday.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSProposed law would protect German kids’ right to make noise 
n SCHNEIDER AND MEYERS BOTH SAID 
THEY NEED TO STAND UP AGAINST BLOCK TUITION AND GUNS ON CAMPUS.
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Despite all the rhetoric that has been tossed 
around in the past few weeks, Ben Meyers and Dave 
Schneider share many of the same views when it comes to student rights.
The two candidates for student body president, 
along with the candidates for treasurer and vice 
president, dished it out Wednesday night as part of 
the 2011 UF Student Government Presidential De-
bate hosted by the Freshman Leadership Council.
They agreed on most issues but had very differ -
ent plans for accomplishing their goals and standing up for students.
On the issues of block tuition, guns on campus 
and taxi cab fees, the candidates agreed they need to stand up for student rights. 
Meyers, a member of the Unite Party , said that 
while many appreciate the rights protected by the 
Second Amendment, guns don’t belong on campus. 
He mentioned that he co-authored a Student Sen-
ate resolution passed in opposition of State Senate Bill 234 that would allow guns on college campuses.
Schneider, a member of the Progress Party , was 
quick to point out during his rebuttal that while 
Meyers co-authored the resolution, he was quoted 
as saying he would carry a gun if the law passed.
“Guns on campus puts us on the wrong track,” 
Partly 
cloudy
78/51FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 17
Aundre Larrow / Alligator 
Unite Party presidential candidate Ben Meyers, left, debates Progress Party candidate Dave Schneider in the Reitz Grand Ballroom 
on Wednesday evening. Both candidates addressed block tuition, guns on campus and taxis overcharging students.
Candidates find common ground at debate
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
It’s 5:48 p.m. Wednesday. On 
the first floor of the Reitz Union — 
just outside the food court entrance 
closest to the Collonade — a green, glowing counter reads 78,698.
The tiny screen indicates how 
many plastic bottles of water have 
been saved by the purified water 
fountain outfitted with a refill sta-tion.The fountain is one of five that 
have been placed throughout the Reitz Union since February 2010.
In one year, the refilling stations 
have saved about 154,000 12-ounce 
bottles of water.
The fountains first 
appeared after Reitz Union officials noticed 
students filling up their empty wa-
ter bottles at older fountains, said Water fountains save 
thousands of bottles
SEE WATER, p AgE 4SEE DEBATE, p AgE 4
pUBLIC SAFETY
By KELLEY DAVIS 
and JESSICA KEgU
Alligator Contributing Writers
Fewer than 10 UF students showed up for 
free HIV testing in the Reitz Union basement 
Wednesday afternoon.
Caitlin Niblick, historian of UF VOX: V oices 
for Planned Parenthood, said it was disap-
pointing because in the past the group has had to turn people away from the test.
Niblick believes the low turnout was due to 
the fact that students just didn’t know about it and because there were not as many organiza-tions involved.
She said students should not be afraid to 
walk up in the future to grab a free condom, sign up for HIV testing or ask questions. 
Tim D’Annecy, secretary of the organiza-
tion, said the group hopes to really step it up this semester by offering free testing at least 
two or three more times. 
“We have a huge shipment of testing strips 
that we want to use,” D’Annecy said. 
The testing was part of National Condom 
Week, which began Monday and will continue 
through Friday . HIV testing event sees 
disappointing turnout
OnCampu s“We have a huge shipment of   
testing strips that we want to use.”
Tim D’Annecy
secretary of Voices for Planned ParenthoodNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 31 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Spencer Christen,  
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
RUB Entertainment Local Brew 
SeriesToday, 8 p.m.Orange & Brew  
RUB Entertainment presents The Righteous Kind with locals Pseudo Kids and The Footlights for free. For more information about the Local Brew series, as well as other events, become a fan of RUB Entertainment on Facebook and follow rubenter -
tain on Twitter. 
A Spring of Hope
Today, 6:15 p.m.Matherly Hall Room 14The UF chapter of A Spring of Hope, a nonprofit organiza-tion, is having its first meeting of the semester. Free pizza will be served. For more informa-
tion about the organization go 
to aspringofhope.org 
PAM Gelato Company 
FundraiserToday, 6 p.m.The Gelato Company , 11 SE First Ave.Support the LGBT community 
and its allies by grabbing dinner 
or dessert. Make sure to men-tion  Pride Awareness Month. 
Education Career Night
Today, 7 p.m.Reitz Union Room 282This event is open to all UF students and will host alumni 
guest speakers who will discuss 
different career options avail-able with a degree in Education. They will offer advice, talk about what they would’ve done differently and answer ques-tions. There will be snacks and refreshments, giveaways to all who attend and a free gift to the 
first 25 attendees. 
Pledge 5 Apprentice
Today , 7:20 p.m. 
Rinker Hall, Room 101Pledge 5 will have an open call for “The Pledge 5 Apprentice,” following the format of NBC’s “The Apprentice.” Each week, 
participants will be given a 
project to complete correlating charity drives and events and face weekly elimination based on their performance. The last person standing will become the next executive director of Pledge 5 and win a $40,000 compensation package that 
includes $30,500 cash, hous-
ing and restaurant allowance, among other things. All majors are invited to attend. 
I Love You, Dear Monster Vol. II
Today, 7 p.m.Sharab LoungeSociety Promotions presents 
its second monster-themed 
Valentine’s Day art show. Six artists are showing work. Come out for some scary art and re-freshments. Check out Society Promotions on Facebook.
Migrants, Foreigners, Jews: The 
Nation as Performative Event 
in U.S. and German TV Crime 
DramasToday , 7 p.m. Turlington Hall Room L005 In this lecture, professor Wulf to educate audiences about the 
rich history and contemporary 
plights of black males.
Casino Night
Monday, 6 p.m.Broward BasementCome join Black History Month for Casino Night. The night will be filled with poker, Black Jack, 
Russian roulette and more.
Gainesville Rugby Club 5th 
Annual Poker Run
Feb. 26, 7 p.m.Gator CityThe Gainesville Hogs invite you to their fifth annual poker run. You will get cards at each 
stop. The best hand at the end 
of the night wins $100! For details check out our website: gainesvillerugbyclub.com. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to ebehrman@alligator.org. 
Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
LOCAL
Funeral plans finalized for 
deceased students
Funerals for Grant Lockenbach 
and Michael Pirie, two students 
who died in a rappelling accident Saturday, will be held this week.
Lockenbach’s funeral will be 
Friday at First Presbyterian Church in DeLand at 3 p.m. Friends and members of the community are welcome to attend. 
Pirie’s funeral will be Sunday 
at 2 p.m. at Lake Highland Middle School Bourne Chapel in Orlando. Friends and members of the com-munity are welcome to attend.
A memorial fund for Locken-
bach has been created. Donations may be made to:
Grant Lockenbach Memorial 
Fund, P .O. Box 1002 DeLand, FL 32720. 
The family will be making a 
donation to UF’s Fellowship of Christian Athletes and Young Life 
of West Volusia.
— MEREDITH RUTLAND
CORRECTION
In Wednesday’s Alligator two 
photos were incorrectly attrib-uted to Daniela Guzman. The photos should have been attrib-
uted to Elise Giordano.Kansteiner from Binghamton 
University will examine mes-sages about migration and 
national identity in popular 
TV cop shows. 
V ox: V oices for Planned 
Parenthood General Body MeetingToday , 7 p.m. Reitz Union Room 278 and 279
Vox is dedicated to support-
ing everyone’s right to sexual health. From passing out con-doms at nightclubs, to volun-teering at the local women’s health clinic, to lobbying the Florida legislature, V ox is full of awesome opportunities. 
Sigma Chi Derby Days
Saturday, 10 a.m.Norman FieldSigma Chi Fraternity will be holding its annual line dance competition, Derby Days. The competition will be ben-efiting the Children’s Miracle Network and is between the 
women of the UF Panhellenic 
Council.
CASA Chinese New Year Show
Saturday, 6:30 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomThe Chinese American Student Association is host-ing a Chinese New Year 
show full of cultural dances, 
modern dances, singing, skits, Chinese yo-yo, spoken word, musical instruments and much more. There will be free beverages and cultural food. This is free and open to the public. Contact casa.presi-dent@gmail.com for more in-
formation.
Florida Invitational Step Show
Saturday , 7 p.m. O’Connell Center  
This show highlights the art of stepping by Black greek let-ter organizations. Eight of the nine National Pan-Hellenic 
Council teams from around 
the country will compete for a grand prize of $5,000. 
Great Gator Debate
Sunday, 6 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomThis 2-vs-2 public forum style tournament will test the ar -
gumentative and persuasive skills of its contestants. At its conclusion, the final teams will have the opportunity to compete in front of UF for the $250 grand prize.
Black Male Extravaganza
Sunday, 6:30 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
BME is a Broadway scale, the-atrical production featuring a cast of talented black males. The production features elab-orate dance numbers, songs and a captivating story line SATURDAY MONDAY SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/53SUNNY
75/49SUNNY
77/51PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/51PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/49FRIDAY
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By JOSHUA JURNOVOY
Alligator Contributing Writer
There is still room for improve-
ment in areas many fought to make 
progress in during the Civil Rights 
Movement, according to civil rights 
activists who spoke Wednesday night at Pugh Hall.
More than 200 students, 
Gainesville residents and civil rights workers from across the state crowd-ed into Mackay Auditorium to hear a discussion with John and Patricia Stephens Due called “An Evening 
With the Dues: Pioneers in the Civil 
Rights Movement.”
The Dues talked about their past 
work and the work that still needs to be done to improve social justice.
Patricia first came to fame in 
1960, when she and five other Flori-da A&M University students served 49 days in jail for sitting at a “whites-
only” lunch counter. It was the first 
jail-in of the Civil Rights Movement.  
She and her husband, John, a civil 
rights attorney , have continued to fight for civil rights and social justice ever since their days at Florida A&M and went to jail several more times for nonviolent protesting.
Joshua Porter, a 
political science junior, agreed with the activ-ists, who said a fight 
for racial equality still exists in areas such as education.
“I think there is a sentiment out 
there that everything is OK because Barack Obama was elected,” Por -
ter said. “The quality of education 
for whites and minorities has never 
been equal.”Civil rights activists 
talk about experiencesTECHNOLOGY
By MARGEAUX NELSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
With the recent launch of 3net and ESPN 3D, 
two 24-hour television networks, the 3-D experi-
ence can now be brought to the comfort of your 
home.
Despite 3net CEO Tom Cosgrove’s ambition 
for the network’s launch to increase adoption of 
this technology , some local experts believe it will take much more than that to bring the 3-D craze from theaters to American households.
UF economics professor Mark Rush said if 3-D 
TV gains popularity, it won’t happen overnight. 
The companies producing the networks face 
“the chicken or the egg” problem, Rush said, add-ing that more networks need to be developed in order for consumers to buy the product. 
If enough networks make the switch, supply 
and demand will increase, eventually forcing the price down, he said. But until the price drops, he believes the average college student may have only one other mean of attaining the state-of-the-art system — parents.
“When I look at the parking lot where UF 
students park, I check out some of the cars,” he said. “The students may not have a great deal of income themselves, but their folks do, and their folks are certainly willing to buy them 3-D TVs if they become popular and if that’s what students want.”   
3net, the first 24/7-dedicated 3-D network to 
launch in the U.S., debuted at 8 p.m. on Feb. 13. 
ESPN 3D, the U.S. television industry’s first 
exclusive 3-D network, expanded its program lineup to show content 24 hours a day on Feb. 14. 
With only two 24/7 stations available, the 
price of the technology is costly for the amount of content available, said David Ostroff, a UF pro-fessor of media technology.
“You’re asking someone to 
pay $2,500 to watch two chan-
nels, and unless they’re a sports 
person or a nature fan, it’s kind 
of limited,” Ostroff said. 
While reports have shown 
that the launch of the 3-D net-works have shown positive reviews, Ostroff said it’s cru-cial for new networks to create 
programs with content that lends itself to 3-D. 
Rush said only time will tell if 3-D home enter -
tainment will catch on in the U.S. 
“Three or four years from now, we’ll be able 
to look back and say , ‘Passing fancy . Nobody watches it,’ or, ‘Wow, how did we ever get by without this?’” he said.3-D TV becomes a reality
Rush
OnCampu sMike Mironack, director 
of operations at the Reitz Union.
In addition to seeing a 
need for a place for stu-dents to get a refill, admin-istrators were dealing with 
older water fountains that 
broke down periodically.
At first, the solution was 
to fit a bottle filler on an older water fountain. But that didn’t work out.
Instead, union adminis-
trators opted to replace the older, rundown fountains 
with newer ones.
The water fountains fea-
ture two nozzles: There’s 
one people can drink from and one specifically for fill-ing a bottle of water.
The fountains are 
equipped with sensors, so those who are looking to fill up need only place their bottles and canisters under 
the nozzle.
The water also comes out 
faster, which makes things 
less awkward for people 
like Jason Chonin, who pre-
fers to fill his water bottle fast and get out of people’s way.
“I don’t have to wait and 
hold people up,” Chonin said after filling up his emp-ty 16.9-ounce Zephyrhills 
bottle.
“You don’t want to stay 
there and be a jerk,” he 
added, as another student 
walked up to the fountain 
and filled a gallon contain-er.
Mironack said he thinks 
the fountains have been 
successful in encouraging 
sustainability.
“I think the numbers are 
pretty telling,” Mironack 
said.  “I think one of the rea-
sons they put the counter on there is to reinforce the idea that every time you use it, you’re essentially saving 
the use of a plastic bottle.”4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Freshman Joy King refills her environmentally friendly 
water bottle in the Reitz Union on Wednesday afternoon. As of Wednesday, the refilling station has saved roughly 78,700 12-ounce bottles of water.
Elise Giordano / Alligator 
The St. Francis House, 413 S. Main St., is a soup kitchen and shelter for the homeless. The house’s ex-
ecutive director, Kent Vann, is trying to obtain a permit change to have a time limitation as opposed to a meal limit. Currently, the meal limit allows Gainesville soup kitchens to only serve 130 people per day.
HOMELESSNESS
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
A dispute over the amount of 
meals Gainesville soup kitchens 
can serve may come to an end — in about four months.
Kent Vann, executive director of 
the St. Francis House, requested last week to reword a permit that limits the amount of meals Gainesville soup kitchens can serve in a day to 130. He’s asking for a three-hour time frame instead of a meal limit.
Max Tipping, executive direc-
tor of the Alachua County Coali-tion for the Homeless and Hungry, 
said more people can eat at the St. 
Francis House if the permit is re-worded.
“If they’re not in the first 130, 
they won’t miss out,” he said.
Although rewording the per -
mit won’t fix all the problems soup kitchens face, such as complaints that homeless people gather around 
the St. Francis House, he said it will 
make things easier.
If the permit is changed, Vann 
said he wants to have the St. Francis House serve meals from 10:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. It cost him about $300 to file the paperwork.
Vann is asking to change a per -
mit that affects all Gainesville soup kitchens. Currently, the St. Francis House is the only soup kitchen in 
Gainesville that is affected by the 
meal limit because it is the only one that was established after the meal limit was put into place.
The paperwork will go to the 
Gainesville Planning Board in March or April, depending on how busy the board is, he said. It may go to the City Commission a month or 
two after that.
Joe Cenker, a member of the Co-
alition to End the Meal Limit Now!, 
said having a time frame instead of a meal limit will be a positive change, but the best change would be to not have a limit at all.
“What we’d like to see, in a per -
fect scenario, is the ordinance is re-
pealed totally,” he said. 
Since the process will take about 
four months, he said the coalition 
will continue to work toward the elimination of all limits on feeding.St. Francis House seeks to reword meal limit rule
Students can refill their water 
bottles using specialized faucets
WATER , from page 1  SUBTEXT IS GEARED 
TOWARD AN LGBT AUDIENCE.
By NICOLE LA HOZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Reading naturally influences 
Christina Montana, and she wants to 
use her interest to make something that could help others.
To coincide with Pride Awareness 
Month celebrations, Montana, a first-year English student, and Michelle Philippe, a fourth-year student, are working on reviving Subtext, an LG-BTQ literary arts magazine. 
According to Montana, it has open 
submissions. Anyone can submit fic-tion, nonfiction, poetry, artwork and photographs that are LGBTQ-related. 
Subtext started in 2008 at UF, but 
the publication ceased after the first issue for unknown reasons. The issue, Montana said, contained limited text and 20 staff member submissions. 
Montana said she with met 
Philippe on Friday to discuss visions for the magazine and set up a time-
table. 
Though nothing is solidified, Mon-
tana said Subtext will be published in 
the fall and spring semesters. The first issue will be out in April. 
“This all depends on the response,” 
she said.
“I really want to make a magazine 
that is known throughout campus.” 
To submit pieces to Subtext, e-mail 
subtextsubmissions@gmail.com.Literary mag revived
Block tuition was a hot topic
Schneider said.
On the question of block tuition, Sch-
neider credited his involvement with Stu-
dents for a Democratic Society — not the 
actions of Student Body President Ashton 
Charles, a member of the Unite Party — as 
the reason the implementation of block tu-
ition was deferred a year.  
He also criticized Meyers and the Stu-
dent Senate for not battling against block tuition as soon as it was proposed.
Schenider said he was happy the student 
body would be able to vote on the issue dur -
ing the election because of his petition to get it on the ballot.
Block tuition will charge students a flat 
rate for 15 credit hours no matter the num-
ber of hours actually taken.
Meyers said the Unite Party didn’t op-
pose the issue from day one because no one knew immediately what the exact rate would be.
“It’s not a black and white issue,” he 
said. “There are different needs for different students.”
If a flat rate for 12 credit hours had been 
proposed, it might have been beneficial to 
students, he said. But he reinforced that the 
issue is still standing and that he will not 
stop working until it is taken off the table 
forever.
On the issue of taxis overcharging stu-
dents, Schneider said that while it is wrong, 
he believes the issue is 
deeper, stemming from 
drivers’ need for money . He said SG cannot work on the wages of the drivers but can 
work with the Gainesville community to 
make improvements.
Meyers disagreed.“Our job is not to advocate for cab driv-
ers,” he said. “It’s our job to advocate for 
students.”DEBATE , from page 1
StudentGovernmentn THE RAIL WOULD HAVE RUN 
BETWEEN ORLANDO AND TAMPA.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Florida Gov. Rick Scott 
canceled plans for a high-speed train line be-
tween Orlando and Tampa promoted by Presi-dent Barack Obama, saying it would cost the state too much even with $2.4 billion in federal 
help.
Cost overruns could put Florida on the 
hook for another $3 billion and once com-
pleted, there’s a good chance ridership won’t pay for the operating cost, meaning the state would have to pump more money into the line each year, Scott said.
“The truth is that this project would be far 
too costly to taxpayers and I believe the risk 
far outweighs the benefits,” the Republican 
governor said in a press release issued after he informed U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood of his decision.
LaHood later released a statement contra-
dicting Scott’s assessment of the risk.
“We worked with the governor to make 
sure we eliminated all financial risk for the state, instead requiring private businesses 
competing for the project to assume cost over -
runs and operating expenses,” he said.The move comes a week after Scott, a for -
mer CEO who took office in January, proposed 
state spending cuts of $4.6 billion in the next budget and tax and fee cuts totaling close to $2 billion as Florida grapples with the effects of the recession and high unemployment.
Scott said if the rail project failed, the state 
would have to return the money to the federal government.
“My background is in business, not politics. 
But you don’t have to be an economics expert to understand that if you spend more money than you take in, your business will fail,” Scott said.
But a senior official for the federal Depart-
ment of Transportation said Scott never raised that concern during discussions and the de-partment never intended to put the state on the 
hook for the cost for years to come. It was an 
issue that could have been negotiated, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because LaHood is still talking with lawmak-ers about how to respond to Scott’s decision.
LaHood said he was disappointed, but said 
other states would be happy to get Florida’s money.
“This project could have supported thou-
sands of good-paying jobs for Floridians and helped grow Florida businesses, all while al-leviating congestion on Florida’s highways,” LaHood said. “Nevertheless, there is over -whelming demand for high speed rail in other states that are enthusiastic to receive Florida’s funding and the economic benefits it can de-liver.”
LaHood met with members of Florida con-
gressional delegation Wednesday and was encouraged to find a way to go ahead with 
the project without Scott’s support, the trans-
portation official said. The committed federal 
money covers 90 percent of the projects esti-mated cost. LaHood said he would look at that 
possibility and meet with the delegation again 
on Friday.
Scott’s decision was immediately criticized 
by politicians from both major parties who 
support the project.
“I am deeply disappointed,” 
said U.S. Rep. John Mica, a Re-publican whose district reaches 
from Orlando to the Atlantic Coast, where the rail service could have been expanded. “This is a huge setback for the state of Florida, our transportation, economic development, and important tourism industry.”
Democratic U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor, who 
represents the Tampa area, shared his disap-pointment.
“Governor Scott’s decision demonstrates 
a devastating lack of vision for Florida and a lack of understanding of our economic situ-ation,” she said. “The governor’s campaign slogan was ‘let’s get to work,’ but his refusal to accept vital investment dollars eliminates the opportunity to put thousands of Floridians to work in construction, engineering, architec-ture and most all areas of Florida’s economy.”
The project was important enough for state 
lawmakers to call a special session in Decem-
ber 2009 solely to approve money for an Or -
lando-area commuter rail system that would 
connect with the high-speed rail. They acted with urgency because the project was needed 
to attract stimulus money.
High-speed rail is one of Obama’s priori-
ties, and his latest budget proposal calls for 
$53 billion over the next six years for projects across the country . Florida also stood to benefit 
when Republican governors in Ohio and Wis-
consin rejected high-speed rail projects. The Obama administration committed another $342 million to Florida from the money that would have gone to those states.
Scott criticized Obama’s spending plans 
when he announced Florida would reject the money, saying the president’s most recent budget proposal would increase the country’s 
debt.
“Higher taxes and more government 
spending is a recipe for disaster. Government 
has become addicted to spending beyond its means and we cannot continue this flawed policy,” Scott said.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
NewsStateScott turns down $2.4 billion for high-speed railThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
57% Gaga 
43% AntebellumToday’s question: Should the governor have taken the $2.4 billion for high-speed rail?
77 TOTAL VOTESWednesday’s question: Which Lady do you prefer  — Gaga or 
Antebellum?
Gleeful Usurpers
Two decades of musi-
cal breakthroughs have been overshad-
owed by kids shrieking an-noying mashups. 
Or are we overreacting 
to the news that the cast of 
“Glee” has ousted Elvis, the 
King of Rock ‘N’ Roll him-self, as the artist with the most total singles to appear on the Billboard Hot 100 
chart?
Sure, both of them rep-
resent the pandering every 
generation of pop musi-
cians does to their teenage 
base. And both parties have done covers of songs which became more popular than the original versions. We’re 
still having trouble think-
ing the likes of an overpro-duced, soulless version of “No Air” could topple the 
powerful gospel songs that 
earned the King his first Grammy.
We understand this dis-
tinction is based on the quantity of music produced and how popular it be-comes, not necessarily its 
value. We also know that 
the earworms cranked out for the Fox show take no chances, relying on a for -
mula to elicit the desired response from the public. While Elvis did much the same — the structure of pop music is almost scarily con-
sistent from 1955 through 
today — he also helped break down racial barriers within music by introduc-
ing white audiences to the 
traditionally black world of rhythm and blues. The most the songs from “Glee” have done is increase the interest 
in a cappella groups. 
With an average of 
three songs a show hitting 
the charts, we need to ask 
ourselves how predictable 
our musical tastes are that a television show should capitalize on them with such regularity.Closed Borders
Digital books can’t 
replace tangible pages
If you’re a bibliophile, you’ve probably heard the news 
that Borders declared bankruptcy. While the story may appear to be just another sign of an ailing economy, it’s 
also an indicator that we stand on the edge of a new era.
In a time when people are just getting used to the idea 
of e-readers but are still familiar with the feeling of turning pages, there’s an obvious leap waiting to be made, but we find ourselves reluctant.
Call us romantics or environment haters, but we like phys-
ical books. They look, feel and smell a certain way that satis-fies us more than a sleek device with an anti-glare screen. The digital book heralds the changing attitude toward reading, with people seeing the action as a necessity to glean informa-tion rather than a way to entertain oneself. 
As a society, it seems we have neither the attention span 
nor the time to read solely for pleasure anymore, much less to hole up in a library or hunt through a store for the perfect novel. For those of us who still devour books, we tend to use them as time-fillers: We read them on the bus, on breaks at work or between classes, without specifically setting aside time to immerse ourselves.
Who knows what the future will bring? Maybe some com-
pany will cater to our demographic by finding a way to sim-ulate the sensations of a paper book in digital format. Until then, we’ll be the ones spending our spare time scanning the shelves at Library West, looking for a good read.
Gov. Rick Scott cares only for himself
Last week, Gov . Rick Scott presented his budget for the 2012 fiscal year, proclaiming, “This was the bud-get you asked for.” The proposed budget is $5 billion 
leaner than budgets of years past, as Scott promised. How-ever, the governor cut from areas most critical to the state’s well-being.
Scott disproportionally slashed the education budget by 
about 10 percent, which comes out to a $700 cut in funding per student in primary and secondary education. He also proposed to cut $217 million intended for higher educa-tion. Most importantly , he killed the New Florida Initiative, 
which was geared toward research and development at the 
state’s universities. The program is meant to boost degree 
production and create high-tech jobs in the state. He also proposed not to slash the state’s education budget. Recently , the governor denied ever saying he would preserve the edu-
cation budget amid the cuts. The statement earned a “false” 
rating on PolitiFact; the group said Scott flip-flopped on his 
statement. 
The governor also proposed state employees contrib-
ute 5 percent of their pay toward their retirement. At face value, this would be a good move, given Florida is one of a handful of states that do not require state employees to contribute to their pensions. However, more than half of all state employees are teachers, and this proposal neglects that teachers haven’t had a pay raise since 2006. The governor also would eliminate the cost of living adjustments for new retirees. These reforms are in spite of the fact Florida has one of the soundest pension funds in the country . 
As part of the governor’s “7-7-7” plan, Scott wants to 
eliminate more than 8,700 positions, with 1,700 coming from the Department of Corrections and another 1,850 com-ing from the Department of Children and Families. This definitely is not the most prudent course of action given the state’s anemic job market. 
The most recent report shows 
the state’s unemployment rate ranks as the third highest in the 
country at 12 percent. To put this into perspective, over the course of the past twelve months, the state has added only 35,700 jobs, with the overwhelming majority in education and health services sectors now treated with hostility by the proposed budget.
Despite the sacrifices teachers and other public workers 
would have to make, the governor proposed to more than 
double his own department, adding $343 million to the Ex-
ecutive Office of the Governor as well as 91 new positions. 
Scott’s increase for his own department roughly is equal to the decreases for the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and  Department of Children and Families. The governor 
claims the added cash would spur economic development. 
He also wants to distribute the money without state legis-
lature approval, which is currently required. It is obvious the governor wants to focus solely on enhancing his own political clout and has no real interest in protecting the most vulnerable citizens.
Although Florida has the 47th smallest tax burden in the 
country and is considered the fifth best state in which to con-duct business, Gov . Scott plans to shrink taxes even further. To pay for all these cuts, the governor will eliminate 124 trust funds, used to pay for everything from road repairs to health care, and pool the money toward the general budget. 
Even members of Scott’s own party in the state legisla-
ture are dissatisfied with his extensive cuts — they have called it everything from smoke and mirrors to outright devastating.
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering 
major. His column appears on Thursdays.Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Affirmative Action bake sale ignores history
The UF College Republicans, the same people who brought 
you the People Eating Tasty Animals barbecue in 2009 “to raise 
awareness of the extreme stances of the animal rights organiza-tion PETA,” have taken their political activism to the next level with their Affirmative Action bake sale. By charging different 
prices based on race and gender, they plan to, as their Facebook 
event page puts it, “denounce the bias of Affirmative Action.” 
Oh, those poor discriminated souls.In the past, I’ve concluded it’s best to walk by annoying 
displays of ignorance on campus, but this particular event, held right in the middle of Black History Month, is a dis-graceful disregard of this country’s history of prejudice to-ward women and minorities. In fact, I wish it were just that — a tainted history we could read about and learn from 
— but reality doesn’t permit me to make such assumptions.  
Sorry to break it to you, College Republicans, but some of us 
still carry the burden of centuries of institutionalized discrimi-nation and political disenfranchisement. 
Women still make 76 cents to the dollar for equal work as 
a man. African-American males suffer an obscenely dispro-portionate incarceration rate that sends many more to prison than to college. And Hispanics still face the prospect of racial profiling, as I will if the Florida Legislature passes a bill similar 
to Arizona’s Senate Bill 1070. Affirmative Action attempts to 
include historically excluded groups in hiring policies and aca-demic admissions; your attempt to “denounce” it is not only 
tasteless but also ignorant.
Diana Moreno
UF student
n n n
Gun owners not trained to act as law enforcement
Conceal and carry proponents often say an armed pub-
lic can help prevent or reduce casualties in open-shooter scenarios, acting as de facto police officers when no ac-
tual officers are near. While the conceal and carry licensing  
process involves informing licensees of pertinent laws and regulations and requires either completion of a hunter safety course or a “demonstrated capacity” to handle a firearm,  
there is no state requirement that they demonstrate their ability to accurately assess threats, identify bad guys, avoid collateral damage of bystanders or maintain shooting  
accuracy under stressful situations. That is to say, conceal and carry licensees do not receive police training and are not quali-fied to make law-enforcement-type decisions in open-shooter scenarios. 
It is misleading for conceal and carry licensees or propo-
nents to suggest they are qualified to fill this role. Suggesting otherwise is like saying a 16-year-old who can handle a car in a parking lot is by extension able to handle driving on the in-terstate because they know about traffic laws and can find the 
gas pedal.
Tim Johnson
Gainesville resident and student 
n n n
Reusing items a good alternative to recycling
Laura Ellermeyer’s editorial in Tuesday’s paper highlights 
an important topic: the cost of waste. Perhaps a more appropri-
ate title and discussion could have been “Reduce and Reuse First; Recycling Still Uses Resources.” It is true there are costs associated with recycling — fiscal and environmental. That is 
why the best action one can take is trying to consume less. This 
helps reduce the amount of resources used to mine and create the products in the first place, as well as avoids the added re-source use associated with the process of recycling. 
Instead of deciding between trash or recycling, use a reusable 
water bottle or coffee mug, bring your reusable bags to the grocery store and vote with your dollar by purchasing goods that have less packaging. Every individual has the power to choose to reuse.  
This spring, the Office of Sustainability is hosting Rethink — a campaign to engage, educate and empower Gators to con-sider waste in its many forms and the ways they can REduce, REuse, REcycle, REpurpose, REnew, REstore and REspond in their own lives. The Office of Sustainability will be hosting a 
number of events and promoting a number of new initiatives 
on campus to help students, staff and faculty stop and REthink waste like coffee cups and sleeves, plastic bags, water bottles and even energy waste. Stay tuned for details on numerous sustainability-related events and opportunities on campus and in the community  through April 22. For more information on the campaign and events, visit sustainable.ufl.edu/rethink, or follow Sustainable UF on Facebook to learn howto get involved on campus. 
Ashley Pennington
Outreach Coordinator for the UF Office of Sustainability 
n n n
Graduate student proud to belong to SG party
I choose to Unite because results matter. I don’t want false 
promises or dirty politics. I choose a party that believes in fol-
lowing through, campaigning hard and respecting people 
along the way. I choose Unite. I’ve been a part of the late-night and early-morning campaigning. More importantly, I’ve seen the dedication and long hours Unite members put in once appointed to get the results for their constituents.  
I am a graduate student who’s not a Greek and doesn’t live 
on campus, and I choose to vote Unite. SG parties have come 
and gone in the time I’ve been a student, but Unite is a party  
that works together for a result, and I am proud to say I am a Unite Party member. We will continue to work for all students. We are Unite! 
Amanda Ford
UF student
The number of traditional language pro-
grams in higher education has declined during the past 40 years, a study con-
ducted by researchers at the University of California, Riverside, concluded.
Led by Steven Brint, sociology professor 
and associate dean of the College of Humani-ties, Arts and Social Sciences, the study looked at the number and type of institutions that offered European language degrees and later discontinued them.
The study found only 59 percent of Ameri-
can four-year colleges offered Romance lan-guage majors in 2006, compared to almost 76 
percent in the 1970-71 academic year, though 
Spanish programs have not been affected in the same way. For German language majors, the rate declined from about 44 percent to nearly 27 percent during the same period.Timothy Reagan, professor of foreign lan-
guage education at Central Connecticut State University , discussed reasons for the decline. He suggested the trend toward removing lan-guage requirements in universities may play a large role.
“There is a general sense in the U.S. that 
English is sufficient,” Reagan said. “People 
tend to be monolingual and assume that that 
is normal.”
Brint said another factor of the decline is the 
economic recession and its impact on higher education funds. The type of institution also plays a large role in decisions to continue or abandon foreign language programs.
Foreign language programs have not seen 
any decline in students or support at the Uni-
versity of Virginia, however, French depart-
ment chair Cheryl Krueger said. With regard to French in par -
ticular, Kreuger said in an e-mail that there have been “no signs of 
declining interest in French language, litera-ture and culture.”
“Every semester we have to increase class 
sizes on several 3000- and 4000-level courses to accommodate the number of students who wish to take courses taught in French, dealing with France and the French-speaking world,” she said.
As long as foreign language departments 
continue to receive support, Romance lan-guages will continue to thrive at the universi-ty, French associate professor Janet Horne said 
in an e-mail. The Spanish department did cut 
its minor in September 2009, however, noting that “minors compete for courses with majors who need the courses to graduate,” according to the department website.
Spanish is the one language that has seen 
significant growth in student interest and study prevalence in the United States, Brint said.
Reagan speculated American students con-
tinue to pursue Spanish because “[it] is argu-ably the most useful language.”
Brint said he believes the prevalence of lan-
guage programs is greatly beneficial for both students and universities because it promotes a more cosmopolitan student population.
“We often talk about globalization and be-
ing prepared for a global world, yet we find the courses that prepare students for that are 
being cut.” 
Cavalier Daily, U. Virginia via UWIRE
College romance language programs drop in popularityUWire
Valerie Clemens
and Abby Cavalier
UWiretheAvenue         thursday, february 17, 2011
-The new Starbucks size may sat-
isfy cravings, but the size could be detrimental, one health ex-pert says.-Put some spring in your workout  (and diet) before the break hits.-Sick of naked nails? Check out Fifth Avenue’s advice this week.-Learn about the latest syphi-lis scare and how it could affect you.-Check out this week’s install-ment of Secrets of the Swamp: Stripped.For even more Avenue scoop, check out www.alligator.org/the_avenueONLINE:PG 9: Learn about this local 
woman’s big love: elephants.
Preview “Melancholy Play,” which hits the Squitieri Studio Theatre this weekend.PG 10: Get AMPED with UF ten-
nis player Sekou Bangoura. PG 12: Another one bites the dust: “Guitar Hero” franchise comes to an end.INSIDE: 
The
List
READ: “Sarah’s Key” 
by Tatiana de Rosnay
Julia Jarmond is an American journalist who moves to Paris. Upon learning the home she’s  moving into belonged to a Jewish family deported during the Ho-locaust, Jarmond sets out to discover what became of the family and what will become of her life.
SEE: I Am Number Four
A teenager (Alex Pettyfer) comes to terms with his adolescence and strange powers. Check out rumored couple Di-anna Agron (“Glee”) and Pettyfer fall in love on screen. Cute!
WATCH: $#*! My Dad Says
The most controversial character of Bravo’s “Real Housewives” series, Ca-mille Grammer, meets the least politi-cally correct TV show. Sounds like the perfect match, right?
LISTEN: “ Born This Way”
Lady Gaga is back with another Bill -
board hit. Just turn the volume up and embrace it. Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Cut the mushy stuff: Can platonic relationships really work? Experts and UF students weigh in on the sticky 
issue. Above, UF mechanical engineering sophomore David Baden and UF English sophomore Deanna Pinzon 
pose for a picture Tuesday.
the other soul mate
Platonic partnerships can be beneficial, experts say
By EUGENIO TORRENS
avenue contributing writer 
    Ladies, don’t be shy. Go ahead and show your “we’re-just-friends” guy some love. Sure, girls have to have their girl BFFs, but some say women may be remiss in ducking platonic friendships 
with guys. For one, that male chum of yours has 
something none of your estrogen-fueled cohorts do: less emotion.
“Men are socialized to be emotionally non-ex-
pressive,” said Ryan Duffy, a UF psychology profes-sor. “Women are kind of the opposite.”
Most would argue there’s nothing wrong with 
that. But for some, too much emotion can be over -
whelming. 
“Sometimes, my girlfriends are indecisive,”  
Kristen Kearn, 18, said. “My guy friends initiate things. With girls, there’s this whole ‘I don’t want to hurt your feelings’ thing.”UF marketing junior Katie Cancellare agreed: 
“[With] guy friends, you have fun. Girls are more talkative, more ‘Oh, my God!’” 
Opposite-sex relationships can be full of emo -
tion, but sometimes they may not be as platonic as they seem.
“Even if the woman was seeing the relationship 
as platonic, maybe the male — it’s still platonic — but maybe the male sees it as less platonic,” said Ilan Shrira, a UF visiting professor.
Derrel Pendergrass, 23, said most guys intend 
to form a more-than-platonic relationship when they get to know girls.
For an unavailable female in platonic relation-
ship, problems may arise when a boyfriend asks why his boo is spending time with other fellas.
This proved the case for 21-year-old Kayla 
Stewart, who has been in a relationship for eight years. She said the issue of platonic friends has 
been a thorn in her boyfriend’s side, but through communication and reassurance, the relationship has kept its course.
Single ladies face a different problem with pla-
tonic buddies. While there’s no boyfriend brewing 
with trust issues, lurking behind their shoulders, there is an ocean full of hungry testosterone-pumping fish.
Duffy said: “If you’re going to be platonic 
friends with someone of the opposite sex, and you’re heterosexual, if you’re both emotionally and 
physically attracted to that person, it’s just going to 
be a problem.”
Geoffrey Greif, professor at the University of 
Maryland School of Social Work, said women — single and involved — should try to make as many platonic friends as possible, so long as they aren’t destructive. 
“The beauty of the friendship is in the eye of 
the beholder,” Greif said. “A lot of people consider 
their spouses their best friend.”
— LAUREN GOLDrelationships thursday, february 17, 2011  u ALLIGATOR, 9
Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
Freshman Red 
Dawn Gomonit 
looks adorable 
in a lace dress 
paired with 
sandals while 
studying on 
the Plaza of 
the Americas. 
This biological 
engineering 
major chooses 
to wear a dress 
to welcome 
warmer temperatures in 
Gainesville.
Nutritional 
science 
sophomore 
Dominique 
Durham likes to 
look put-together 
and neat. Durham 
keeps his style on-
point by wearing 
a dress shirt, tie 
and accessories 
almost daily.For the latest frills, ﬂ  air and every-
thing fashion, check out what our 
lens caught this week. 
Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
   Flair
   Flair
by Dana Burke
by Dana Burke
 For a positive awakening, see “A Melancholy Play” 
  By MAE BASIRATMAND
 avenue writer
 
  “Every night, I laugh,” said Rachael Jones, a senior BFA act-
ing major and the director of “Melancholy Play.” 
  “There is such a life force and energy with this play that I 
have not seen before. This show reminded me of why I love the-
ater,” she said.
  The eccentric world of “Melancholy Play” comes alive Feb. 
18, 19 and 20 in the Squitieri Studio Theatre in the Phillips 
Center. 
  In “Melancholy,” intricate detailing of human emotion is dis-
covered as each character’s internal ﬂ  aw is interlaced with the relationship he or she has to the main character, Tilly — the  girl who feels everything.
  The play is witty in a nonpompous way, and it is portrayed by 
a tight-knit cast, all of who demonstrate their deep understand-ing of their characters’ inner faults.  John Wells, a UF English major, said, “I play a Euro-
pean character.  When he grew up as a child, he was ex-pected to suffer.  Because she [Tilly] feels so much, peo-ple are drawn to her.  She is open about her feelings. We are programmed to somehow disguise our emotions.”       The play is said to ironically celebrate the act of feeling and shows that happiness sometimes alienates people rather than brings them together.  The show is not just for those who enjoy psychological analy-
sis. It may also be appealing to those not involved in the arts. 
  “People think it’s so heavy, it can be daunting to them.  It’s 
just a show you can watch, a different way of theater,” Jones said.
  Debra Christopher, a fourth-year BFA acting ma-
jor who plays the lead role of Tilly, believes  the play is light in nature but has a reﬂ  ective meaning.    “People shut off feelings and are not immersed in everyday life.  It’s beautiful to see what happens when this person opens 
up so intensely.  In our culture, we put up walls,”  Christopher 
said. 
  Christopher’s character, Tilly, suffers in a way so that every-
one vicariously lives through her grievances.  
  In the play’s pursuit of searching for true emotion or need 
for reaction in the desensitized society that prevails, life exists beyond mindless day-to-day activities and exists in the actors’ studio, among the cast — open and raw.theater Woman’s life “All About Elephants” 
  By KELLY RICHARD
 avenue contributing writer
 Mid-afternoon, Bunny, Luke and Roxy 
sway their rotund, wrinkly bodies in an-
ticipation. They know feeding time is ap-proaching.  But their shifting weight is not only out of excitement: It’s also out of ne-
cessity. Each of the three Asian elephants  
weighs about 10,000 pounds.
  Their four teeth, each larger than a 
brick, help them consume 275 to 450 pounds of food a day. They feast mostly on hay, fruit, bamboo, grains and grass.
  However, they don’t eat peanuts.  El-
ephants’ afﬁ  nity for the legume is a myth — they just like the salt.
  Bunny, Luke and Roxy reside in the 
Gainesville neighboring city, Williston.
  Patricia Zerbini, 47, runs Two Tails 
Ranch at 18655 NE 81st St., and All About Elephants is the educational program she started at the ranch, allowing public tours of the premises by appointment. For an additional fee, Zerbini conducts elephant rides in the warmer weather.
  But lately, Zerbini said, weather has 
been tough on business.
   Zerbini said the ranch had to cancel 
about three-fourths of its appointment-made tours in December due to an unruly winter.
  And the elephants weren’t fans of the 
cold conditions, either.  They can take tem-peratures outside into the mid-40s, she said, but like most who reside in Florida, 
they prefer warmer weather.
  Zerbini, who opened the ranch to the 
public about two years ago, said she en-
joys working with elephants because they are intelligent and don’t hit a learning pla-teau.   One of the elephants, Luke, even paints, and his artwork is displayed at the ranch.
  She also has an array of other creatures 
including Peepers, the emu; Katherine, the ostrich; Donald, the duck; Honkers, the goose; Pierre and Toche, the zebras; and Bert and Ernie, the tortoises.
    Zerbini’s family has been working with 
exotic breeds for nine generations.
  “I’ve always worked 
with animals,” she said.
  Zerbini started with 
ponies, horses and donkeys, but it esca-lated from there.
    Her father, Tarzan 
Zerbini, bought an entire circus when she was about 13 years old.  He wanted the tents and lighting equipment but also ac-quired ﬁ  ve elephants in the deal.
  “I was actually always petriﬁ  ed of el-
ephants as a child,” she said.
  However, when their trainer left sud-
denly, her father put her in charge of the elephants, and her feelings changed.
  In the future, Zerbini hopes to get a 
permit to make Two Tails an animal rescue center.  She would also like to resume the 
ranch’s breeding program and bring in a 
few African elephants.
  Her mother, Jacqueline Zerbini, 65, 
and sister Christine Zerbini, 32, help Zer-bini run the ranch. 
   But still, a normal day for Zerbini starts 
at about 3:30 a.m. and doesn’t end until her last round is ﬁ  nished at about 10 p.m. 
In addition to the animals, she takes 
care of the paperwork and bookings.
  The average lifespan of the elephants 
at Two Tails is 65 to 73 years old.  At a zoo, the number drops to 40 to 43.  And in the wild, it’s about 18 to 22, Zerbini said.
  But Zerbini said she couldn’t take all 
of the credit for the high number because she usually obtains her elephants when they retire from the circus.
  Elephants that come from the circus 
tend to be in top condition, both physically and mentally, Zerbini said.
  Those that have worked with humans 
beneﬁ  t most from a stable family-type background.
  “We have learned a lot more through 
trained elephants,” she said.
Nevertheless,   Bunny, Luke and Roxy 
still get the chance to feel wild, Zerbini said.
  Zerbini lets them spend about 20 min-
utes at a time out in the woods.
  With plenty of baths, food and atten-
tion, life is “all about elephants” at Two Tails Ranch. 
“Every night, I laugh. There is such a life force and 
energy with this play that I have not seen before. This 
show reminded me of why I love theater.”
RACHAEL JONES
director of “A Melancholy Play” Moms get outraged, others rejoice
u“DEAD SPACE 2” VIDEO GAME PUSHES MOMS’ 
BUTTONS
  By ANDREW WYZAN
 avenue writer
 
  “This game is an atrocity,” an unnamed mother said. 
  “I think it’ll make a person become insane,” another said.  “Why would they even make something like this?” a third 
mother asked.
  These women were part of a focus group study conducted by 
Electronic Arts for its new game “Dead Space 2,” in which the moms’ best reactions were recorded and used in commercials for the horror- and gore-ﬁ  lled franchise. 
    EA recently announced the game has sold more than 2 million 
units since its Jan. 25 release, and local independent retailer R. U. Game?, 5186 SW 34 St., is sold out.  Based on sales, it’s clear that EA’s marketing strategy was a success, despite recent contro-versy over the violent content of video games. 
   “It [Dead Space 2’s commercial] was deﬁ  nitely more viral 
than usual commercials,” said John Kelley, shift manager at R. U. Game?.
  But Kelley raised an eyebrow at the commercial’s target mar-
ket.  “It seemed like it was marketed toward a younger audience,” 
he said of the game, rated M for Mature. “I don’t think that’s nec-essarily a bad thing, because a lot of companies do that.”
  Kelley said the store has a policy of never selling a Mature-
rated game to those under 17.
    Joshua Javaheri, lead technical artist at Trendy Entertainment, 
an independent video game development studio in Gainesville, criticized the media’s recent negative reaction to “Bulletstorm,” another controversial game, with violence and sexual humor. 
  “The reason people will play games like ‘Bulletstorm’ and ‘Dead 
Space 2’ is because they’re so over the top,” Javaheri said. 
  Clay Calvert, an expert on First Amendment rights, disagrees 
with Javaheri and said he thought EA’s honesty might do more harm than good.
  “That type of marketing is precisely the thing that gets the at-
tention of lawmakers and brings the video game industry under legislative scrutiny,” said Calvert, director of the Marion B. Brech-ner First Amendment Project and professor of mass communica-tion at UF. “To that extent, it is a terrible marketing campaign,” Calvert said.
  Javaheri isn’t too worried about legislative scrutiny, saying that 
so far lawmakers haven’t succeeded in passing anything that hasn’t been challenged by the law.
  “I feel if you don’t like something, don’t play it,” he said. 10, ALLIGATOR uthursday, february 17, 2011
AMPED wtith UF athletes:
By RICHARD O. STEHLI
avenue writer
UF sophomore Sekou Bangoura has 
been playing tennis since before most chil-
dren know what tennis  is. The Bradenton, Fla., native has 16 years of experience, 
which seems like no feat — until you con-
sider that he’s 19 years old.
Despite that love, his love off the court, 
he said, is music.
“I probably listen to music between 
eight and 10 hours every day. I wasn’t kid -
ding when I said that I never take my head -
phones off,” Bangoura said.
Music is a source of focus and inspi-
ration for the nationally ranked athlete, through the positive messages of songs and the pumps-you-up elements of good beats. Playing in the cutthroat SEC,  he 
said, you need all the focus and inspiration 
you can get.
“Georgia and Tennessee are going to be 
tough,” Bangoura said. “Tennessee beat us in the SEC finals last year, and Georgia knocked us out of the NCAA. This year, we 
want revenge.”
Bangoura kicked off his sophomore 
season winning the singles draw at the 
Lakewood Ranch Clay Court Classic in 
Bradenton, just a few days shy of his 19th 
birthday. SEC play starts for the Gators on March 4 at 3 p.m. against LSU at Linder Stadium at the Ring Tennis Complex.  
Although Bangoura’s 
top tracks are never the same for long, here’s what was pump-ing him up last time we 
checked:
“Let’s Go” by Trick Daddy feat. Twista 
and Lil Jon
“This is a great one to get you totally 
hyped up before a match.”
“The Show Goes On” by Lupe Fiasco
“Oh man, I had this song on repeat for, 
like, three or four weeks. I think my team-
mates are pretty sick of it, but I love it.”“All of the Lights” by Kanye West“This is a great pump-up song from a 
great album. I love that beat.”
“Get Up, Stand Up” by Bob Marley and 
The Wailers
“This song is kind of low-key, but so in-
spirational.”
“Letting Go (Dutty Love)” by Sean 
Kingston feat. Nicki Minaj
“Forget about the lyrics. This one is all 
about the beat.”
“Strong Will Continue” by Distant 
Relatives
“This song is so inspirational. It’s all 
about continuing through adversity, which 
is something I need to do out on the court.”
“More” by Usher“I gotta be honest. I wish I could dance 
like Usher!”
“Don’t Let Me Fall” by B.o.B.“What I take from this song is ... I dunno 
(laughs). I guess I just really like the song.”
“High Road” by Fort Minor feat. John 
Legend
“This song is the best of both worlds. It 
has an awesome beat to get me pumped, plus really inspirational lyrics.”
Jesse Lash / Alligator
UF tennis player Sekou Bangoura poses for a photo.
tennis player Sekou Bangourathursday, february 17, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
   My ﬁ  rst experience with the “Guitar Hero” fran-
chise was in summer 2007 in my neighbor’s garage. With a full drum kit in one corner and 
a Marshall stack beside it, there wasn’t a better at-mosphere to begin my imaginary rock star life. On a small outdated television, I became entranced by the rainbow of notes speeding toward me, seemingly leap-
ing off the onscreen fret board. The clicking of the 
strum bar was like a subtle bass groove to “Mother.” When I reached “Sweet Child O’ Mine,” I ignored my cramping left hand and played all through the night.  The success of the “Guitar Hero” franchise was one of 
the most interesting phenomena of the past decade. Its 
wide mainstream appeal predated the   Nintendo Wii by a year, and its successive iterations alongside the Wii helped bring gaming back into the mainstream culture. 
The franchise has done a great service to both video 
games and the music industry, and it is with great regret that I must eulogize its death.
  On Feb. 9, after a steep decline in sales due to over-
saturation, publisher Activision pulled the plug on the 
franchise, along with the underrated “DJ Hero” series. 
The move to end the two has been a long time coming. 
  After the success of “Guitar Hero II,” MTV Games pur-
chased then-developer Harmonix, ending the studio’s 
partnership with Activision and leading to the creation of 
“Rock Band” — Harmonix’s masterpiece in Party gaming.
  Activision handed the franchise to Neversoft, the stu-
dio behind “Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater,” and the duo man-aged to have a success with “Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock,” thanks to probably the best set list in franchise history. 
  Despite the release of “Guitar 
Hero III,” Activision couldn’t com-pete after visionaries at Harmonix turned “Rock Band” into a full mu-sic platform, complete with a vast 
library of downloadable songs and 
the tools for players to record their own tracks. Activision, in what ap-peared to be a blatant cash grab, 
then oversaturated the market with handheld spin-offs, 
mobile games and band-speciﬁ  c expansions, trying to 
outdo Harmonix in making the game a complete musical experience.
  The recent economic recession didn’t help either 
company, as “Rock Band 3” seems to have hit the sales nadir for the franchise, and the general indifference to “DJ Hero” and its sequel have cost Activision big time. “Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock,” the last installment of the franchise, performed well below expectations, forcing 
the publisher to close the ever-growing money pit.
  It’s amazing to think that the rise and fall of “Guitar 
Hero” took place within the short span of about six years, 
considering how quickly it pervaded popular culture. Like 
a true rock star, the franchise burst out fully formed, 
blowing minds and rocking faces, before its inevitable descent into memory, like a forgotten album in a record store. To paraphrase AC/DC: For those who rocked, we salute you. 12, ALLIGATOR uthursday, february 17, 2011
open in March
  By THOMAS NASSIFF
 avenue contributing writer
 
  Diced tomatoes, shredded lettuce, a variety of 
vegetables and a choice of meats and sauces — 
all wrapped up into a hearty slice of pita bread.
This isn’t exactly the scene one might picture when imag-ining the forefront of a gripping duel over UF’s student body.
  But beginning in March, Gainesville will have a new 
restaurant in town, as Pita’s Republic will take over the vacancy left by Pizza Vito at 3411 SW Archer Road.
  Pita’s Republic will primarily attempt to target the local 
college students — a strategy many local restaurants take. 
But unlike other new restaurants that come to town, Pita’s 
Republic will face the challenge of competing with Pita Pit, a popular chain among locals. 
  Moe Elkasri, the founder of Pita’s Republic, said the 
restaurant would do what it’s always done and not worry 
about direct competition in Gainesville.
  “I certainly think that the market can support another 
restaurant like this,” Elkasri said.
  Delving past the similarities in the restaurants’ names 
reveals that they focus on two fundamentally different 
ideas.
  While Pita Pit is a fast-food chain that advertises its 
quick, easy ordering and delivery system, Pita’s Republic 
is more of a Mediterranean-style res-
taurant. The chain serves more than 
just pitas. It includes  Mediterranean sides, as well.
  Also, the restaurant does not deliver 
and has an expansive dining area where people are more likely to stay and eat, Elkasri said.
  Pita’s Republic also focuses heavily on the nutritional 
content of its food, Elkasri said, and on its appeal to the 
health-conscious returning customers.
  Elkasri opened the ﬁ  rst Pita’s Republic in Tampa in 
1990, near the University of South Florida. 
The ﬁ  rst restaurant was so successful that he expand-
ed in and around the city.
  People clamored for a Gainesville location, he said, 
and now that he’s franchising the chain, he ﬁ  nally can 
open one.
  The restaurant has been franchising since 2007, and 
Elkasri found his Gainesville franchisee in a UF graduate, Lamia Elachchabi, who earned undergraduate and gradu-ate degrees at UF in food and resource economics.
    “We have some ideas for advertising, but nothing is 
set in stone yet,” Elachchabi said. “We just want people to come in and like the food and keep coming back.”
  According to the restaurant’s website, more than 70 
percent of its guests are repeat customers.
  UF students like Michelle Hughes, a sophomore com-
munication sciences and disorders major, are just the kind of customers Pita’s Republic hopes to attract.
  “I’m a pretty healthy eater, so I’ll always go for the 
more nutritional alternative if price and taste are similar,” 
Hughes said.
  A Tampa native, Hughes said she often eats at Pita’s 
Republic when she visits home. 
She said she’s looking forward to the Gainesville chain, 
and she may even eat there more than once a week.
  “It’s the sort of place that you can get addicted to,” 
she said, “because it’s good food, plus you know that it’s 
actually good for you.” There’s a new 
pita in town: Pita’s Republic to 
Gamer Bait
Gamer Bait
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
Columnist“Guitar Hero” franchise takes its Last Waltz 
Gainesville gets dazed by the dub  
  By CARTER LYLES
 avenue contributing writer
 
  The club doors open, and the im-
mediate presence of the disc jockey 
is felt — the bone-rattling effects of the sub woofer penetrating every nu-ance, every movement, every breath 
within the tightly packed surround-
ings. 
  Without a pause or even the 
slightest hesitation, he spins his si-ren’s songs for the teeming masses, 
blending each melody into one pul-
sating rhythm that will continue into the wee hours of the morning. 
  Only the stroke of 2 a.m. will 
stop him, and when that death knell comes, the congregation of fervent worshipers will exhale an audible groan as their priest bids them adieu. 
  For almost a year, the under-
ground craze known as dubstep has conquered Thursday nights in Gainesville, thanks to the influence 
of local DJs Eric Olsen and Travis 
Johnson, also known as Pillager and Illustrain, respectively.
  Their weekly event, Basscamp, is 
set to encompass an even broader 
audience Friday, when it begins per-
forming in its new night slot, from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., at The Vault, 238 W. University Ave. 
  “There’s just not a whole lot 
of dubstep going on right now in Gainesville,” Olsen said. “We’re hoping to change that.”
  The music itself is instantly rec-ognizable by the throbbing, wobble-
ing bass that lasts far longer than 
most conventional music. It is an evolution of the drum-and-bass, re-mix and techno sound.
  Beginning in South London more 
than 10 years ago, the music now enjoys an almost nightly broadcast on BBC’s Radio 1 and, more acces-sibly, on DJs’ live music on The Pe-
rimeter on 105.3. Olsen, 30, who 
has been DJing for about nine years, said he started playing dubstep in 2009.
  “I was DJing at this party on Hal-
loween about a year and a half ago, 
and I knew what dubstep was and 
just felt like playing it,” he said.
  Johnson, who founded Basscamp 
with Olsen, was receptive to the idea of playing the genre more often and 
said he and Olsen thought there was 
a void in the Gainesville experimen-tal music scene.
  “I’d been playing clubs weekly 
for almost a year, and when I ap-proached the owner of Club Seven 
and described my vision to him, he 
thought it was worth a shot.”
  Since kicking off in summer 
2010, Basscamp has grown to en-
compass a new breed of Gainesville 
clubbers. 
  Long-time Basscamp frequenter 
Nick Donald, a second-year network-ing services and Internet services 
technologies student at Santa Fe, 
said:  “The scene’s unlike anything else going on in Gainesville right now. It’s a completely unique experi-
ence.”
  Olsen said the primary music 
used by DJs at local clubs falls with-
in the genres of techno, dirty house and trance. 
But the first spot where locals 
could hear dubstep, he said, was at  the event Rx at The Laboratory,  818 W. University Ave.
  “They used to play a lot of it,” 
Olsen said, “but not so much any-more.”
  As of earlier this week, the 
Basscamp Facebook group had 
about 1,000 members, and with 
the event’s imminent arrival in The Vault’s student-oriented atmo-sphere, that number may increase.
However,   success and accolades 
seem almost a side note for Olsen in his vision for Basscamp.
  Olsen said, “To be honest, I’m 
just trying to get as much music 
out there as I can and use as many 
beats as I can. I just want to play the kind of music I love.” 
“There’s just not a whole lot 
of dubstep going on right now in Gainesville. We’re hoping to change that. To be honest, I’m just trying to get as much music out there as I can and use as many beats as I can. I just want 
to play the kind of music I love.”
ERIC OLSEN
djmusicClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-11-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-20-10-70-1
FREE iPad WITH THIS AD!!
*12 Month Lease required.
Hampton Oaks Apartments
352-333-8643
2-17-11-5-1Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-18-11-20-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.No move in fees and $500 off March!Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         4-20-66-2
14, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-22-11-24-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    3-3-11-30-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-
11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-22-11-14-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, 5 min 
from bus. Big yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D incl. Fireplace in living rm & game rm w/ bar area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1600/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-22-11-14-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   2-21-11-14-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   2-18-11-10-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF***48 Hour Special***352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$360-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, W/D included, furnished common area. 352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com2-22-11-9-23BR APTS 1/2 block to Tigert Hall. 1227 SW 
4th Ave. 2-story brick quad, w/ 3BR apts 
available. Convenient, clean, & energy effi-
cient. 3BRs for $1350/mo. August 1st. Call 
352-514-5060 for appointment    2-17-11-5-
2
Eff Barn Apt, Newberry & 143rd area, 14 
Ac prop, A/C&Heat, well water, loft queen, 
shower bath, microwave, full size fridge, TV, 
washer/dryer $400 954-610-0006 Horse 
Board Stall or Field Extra   3-3-11-15-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
2-17-11-5-2
Sublease a 2/2 roommate style apt with 
W/D for $650/month in Treehouse Village 
Apartments from May 1st to July 31st. Option 
to renew lease. Call Treehouse office at 352-
372-3096 RE: I303 sublease.   2-18-5-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
Beautiful. 1bd. 1ba. loft 5 min on freeway 
from SFC Renovated with tile & carpet.Pool,
Clubhouse, Exercise Room, Quiet location.
$425mo $425sec. $45appl. fee.
472-6491.
3-1-11-10-2
4BR/2BA apt. $900/mo.
Will pay $500 for Section 8 tenants.
Holly Heights. 352-498-3035,email jholifield1@gmail.com    2-22-5-2
www.10houses.com2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-4-11-12-2
Arlington Square. Right downtown! Bus: 1&5. 
5 min bike to campus/15min walk. 2BR/2BA townhouse: high ceilings, in courtyard w/ pool. May-July. Unfurn/util not included. $470/person. 352 318 1014. jsmyth@ufl.edu   3-1-10-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 orjfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Looking for roommate in a 3/3 apartment in Hidden Lake. Current roommates are easy to get along with. Pet-friendly. Easy bus routes to campus. Nice pool and gym with free tan-ning $440/mo. Contact (352) 346-54592-18-8-4Female seeks roommate for furnished house 
in Starke on SR 100. $350/mo + $100 dep. 
305-972-7849 cell. Call day or night.    2-17-
11-5-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.    3-1-10-4
Looking for a male roommate who is very nice 
& easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo util 
& dish network tv incl. If interested call Joe at 
331-4239 or 240-4536. No smokers, alcohol, 
drugs or overnight guests please.  2-25-7-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: 
surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
● GRASS-FED BEEF FOR FREEZER ●
$2/lb live weight. Buy whole, half, quarter.
USDA, no hormones, no pesticides,
locally grown. Call 352-498-3035 or
jholifield1@gmail.com   2-22-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 15
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-1298 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
2-25-11-70-13 
Social Media/Marketing Student to assist on 
establishing F, Twitter & Linkedin sites and 
maintaining with regular postings. Must be 
creative. Part time. Ofice in Haile. Email to 
sklehrer@cox.net    2-18-11-6-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small company in G’ville, great work environment. About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-ProfitLocal nursing home outreach program seeks P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   2-25-11-17-14
16, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011
Summer Camp Counselors Needed
Trail's End & Chestnut Lake Camps - PA
Guaranteed Experience of a Lifetime; Limited 
openings for Sports Specialists, Crafts 
Specialists, Lifeguards & Bunk Counselors; 
June 17th - August 14th 
Gain experience working with kids. 
SUBMIT AN ONLINE APPLICATION NOW! 
www.trailsendcampjobs.com   2-18-11-10-
14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St   2-18-11-10-14
Delivery Drivers needed,
Must know the area and the grid system, with 
open avialibility.
apply at Five Star Pizza downtown. 210 sw 
2nd ave.                 2-18-11-7-14
NEED RIDE FOR STUDENT
to (8:30am) & from (2:30pm),
betweem UF area & East Side High School.Call 318-8780     2-18-11-5-14
D licensed Security Officers needed at a 
hospitality site. 10 hour overnight shift. Pays 
$9.75-$10.00. Please call 941-554-8210 to 
inquire or send resume to
careers@alertprotectiveservices.com.   2-18-
11-5-14
TECH SUPPORT
CEO ASST
NETWORK ASST
SALES CONSULTANTS
SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS
Full time positions.
Send resume to hr@gleim.com
www.gleim.com+         2-28-11-10-14
Marketing/sales for travel-related TV show 
and Website. Candidates must be responsi -
ble self-starters who can research their own 
leads and aren't afraid to pick up a phone. 
We will consider part-time candidates but 
would prefer full-time. Email your resume to 
david@thegearguides.com.    2-17-11-3-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    2-28-11-10-14
Sun Country Sports Center has immediate
openings for an experienced swim instructor 
w/lifeguard cert and a morning cleaning/
light maint. position. Now accepting summer 
camp counselor applications. Download at 
www.suncountrysports.com.
HR@suncountrysports.com for info.
2-21-11-5-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com   2-21-11-5-14
Project Manager/Account Director wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.     2-21-11-5-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com   2-21-11-5-14Pledge 5 Apprentice
Enter the contest.
Win the job.
Change the world.
$40,000 compensation package
Details @ www.pledge5.org
(352)577-8667 staff@pledge5.org 
2-18-4-14
Mobile Waiters Needed - Immediate 
Interviews. Interview tomorrow, start the next 
day! PT or FT, avg. $50-$60 per shift, make 
your own schedule, flexible hours. Must have 
own car and cell phone with texting. Call 888-
334-9675 ext. 1 or apply at www.d-d-i.com
2-17-11-2-14
Office Asst Paid Internship in Alachua. 
$12.00 hourly 10-15 hours weekly. Flexible 
schedule. Knowledge of Quickbooks a plus. 
Email resume to BiopressInfo@gmail.com.   
3-1-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive  po-
sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to 
alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14
Gator Dining Services, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, is now hiring 
cooks, line servers, and cashiers for a new 
Panda Express opening in March.
 
We offer flexible schedules, competitive pay, 
and a great working environment. Those 
interested in joining this dynamic team can 
apply online at www.gatordining.com or 
in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.   
2-21-11-3-14
6DollarShirts.com needs local models ages 
18-22 for a photo shoot for all of our current 
t-shirts. Send an email to robinw@threadpit.
com and tell us about yourself and photos 
(face and full body).   2-23-11-5-14
PERSONAL CARE ASSISTANT NEEDED
for developmentally disabled female in a wheelchair. M, W, F. 9am - 3pm. $10/hr. Must be able to lift client & have a car. 352-384-0909   2-23-11-5-14
COMPANION NEEDED
for developmentally disabled female in a wheelchair. M, W, F. 3pm - 8pm. $10/hr. Must be able to lift client & have a car. 352-384-0909   2-23-11-5-14
HELPING HAND - SATURDAYS5-8 hrs, flex. $8.50/hr. Must be dependable, honest & capable. Run small Kubata tractor & Pullman chainsaw, fix fences, other jobs as needed. 3 mi from Oaks Mall. 352-376-6650   2-18-2-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITY
WHY PAY MORE? 371 9696
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordable
Grammar, conversation, vocabulary
Contact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     
3-16-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF students
GatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.   2-23-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
●Free Self-Hypnosis Classes ●
Take charge of your life, eliminate negatives, maximize your positives. 2pm Saturday at Books, Inc. 505 NW 13th St.    2-18-11-5-20
Sports
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n THE CHANGES WILL LIKE -
LY LOWER RUN OUTPUTS.
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
The ping is less noticeable this 
year.
In an effort to make metal bats 
perform more like wooden ones, 
the NCAA instituted new standards 
for non-wood baseball bats effective Jan. 1.
But the Gators don’t seem to 
mind the change.
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said 
his team has adjusted to them well this offseason.
“Those guys got a chance to hit 
the ball out of the yard still, regard-less of what bat they’re using,” he said. “We feel good with them. 
They all swing the bat pretty good 
right now.”
As a result of the new NCAA 
standards, the bats have a smaller sweet spot, which is expected to curb run production this season.
According to the NCAA, offen-
sive numbers have been on the rise the last four seasons, specifically 
in home runs and runs scored per 
game.
The national average for runs per 
game has increased steadily during that span from 6.1 in 2007, up to 6.98 
last season. 
But decreased offensive outputs 
shouldn’t be a concern for Florida. UF tied for 27th in the nation in 
home runs last season with 83 and 
were 76th in runs scored with 439, averaging 6.86 runs per game — just below the NCAA average.
“The guys who could hit are go-
ing to be successful, and the guys who have power are still going to have power,” O’Sullivan said. “But it is going to change the game some-
what.”
While the bats are expected to 
lower run totals, the new standards 
are meant to decrease the speed at which a ball comes off the bat, 
which could change the approach 
some players take at the plate.
Second baseman Josh Adams 
said he expects to see more teams try to bunt for hits because of it.
But according to O’Sullivan, 
Florida won’t change its approach this season.
“You still got to coach your 
team with the personnel you got,” 
O’Sullivan said. “We have some 
speed at the top, we have some speed at the bottom. We’ve tried to 
recruit some power. … We’re not 
going to change our offensive phi-losophy just because of the bats.”
Instead of worrying about the 
changes in the bats on offense, Flor -
ida hopes the new standards will 
pay dividends for its deep pitching 
staff and defense, where the Gators thrived last season, ranking sixth in 
the NCAA in fielding percentage at 
.978.
“We’ll have a lot more ground 
balls … because guys won’t be try-
ing to hit the ball out every time,” 
Adams said. “Other than that, our pitchers are probably going to carve 
a lot of people up this year.”
UF GYMNAST WINS WEEKLY AWARD FLORIDA BASKETBALL RECRUITING GATORS WOMEN’S TENNIS NEWS
n The Gators added to their 2012 recruiting class, which 
previously consisted only of five-star guard Bradley Beal, 
by picking up an oral commitment from 6-foot-9 power forward Walter Pitchford. The 205-pound three-star re -
cruit is a native of East Lansing, Mich.n UF junior Joanna Mather was named the Southeastern 
Conference’s Player of the Week after her performances at No. 4 UNC and No. 6 Duke over the weekend. Mather won three singles matches and knocked off two nation -
ally ranked opponents in doubles.n Florida freshman Alaina Johnson added 
to her list of accomplishments with an SEC Gymnast of the Week award. Johnson bumped the nation’s season-high all-around score to 39.675 at Georgia on Saturday.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan said the Gators have adjusted well to the new rules that shrank the sweet spot on their metal bats, a measure introduced by the NCAA that will likely curb run production.
Gators easily adjusting to NCAA’s new bat rules
Money is like chalk to a 
gambler. It’s how we keep score. 
Being broke only hurts be-
cause it knocks us out of action. Gambling’s not about money. It’s about juice.
The tension we experience 
when we hear a siren, the flashing lights we see in the rearview mirror, the butterflies before we speak in public — that’s juice.
If penniless, when winning 
really means life or death, fam-ily communions, birthdays and holidays can’t compete with the rush  from a big bet.
We’re juice junkies. L i k e 
drug ad-d i c t s , we don’t 
w o r r y 
a b o u t 4 0 1 K s . We live for the moment.
O n c e 
that syringe is loaded, just the press of a thumb whisks a junkie back to the security of the womb. That glassine pack-age means everything. 
For a gambler, money is just And so it begins...
Bill O’Connor
Confessions of a 
New York Bookie
sports@alligator.orgBy GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer 
gluca@alligator.org
 
Swimming in a position he 
wasn’t meant to be in, Conor 
Dwyer came within .01 seconds of an American record. 
The senior’s 1:31.73 mark in 
the first leg of the men’s 800-
yard freestyle relay was just 
one of the benefits of coach Gregg Troy’s lineup shuffles, which resulted in both the men 
and women’s teams gaining 
ground on Day 1 of the South-eastern Conference Champion-ships. “Conor originally wasn’t 
going to swim that first relay,” Troy said. “We decided we wanted to come out and see if 
we could make a statement and 
get back in the meet, so that was key.” 
Dwyer’s 200-yard individ-
ual time was the fastest in the country and a new SEC record. 
It was also just shy of the 
American record set by David 
Walters of Texas, who set the 
NCAA and national record of 1:31.72 in 2009. 
“We feel like it was a good 
swim, but we feel like he’s ca-
pable of better,” Troy said.
Dwyer’s mark came just 
minutes after he swam the sec-
ond leg of the 200-yard med-ley. 
Although Dwyer said he 
was happy with his perfor -
mance, he felt it may not have been his best. 
“I’m not all the way rest-
ed, so I think there’s more to Dwyer’s 200-yard freestyle part 
of record-breaking day for UF
SEE SWIMMING, p AGE 20SEE BILL, p AGE 20Senior posts nation’s top time
“I think there’s more to 
come. I wish I would’ve 
gotten it tonight, but I’m 
happy with (my time).”
Conor Dwyer
Florida senior swimmer18, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011
n UF WILL FACE AUBURN ON FRIDAY 
AND THREE TEAMS ON SUNDAY.
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
 
The Florida gymnastics team’s stamina will 
be pushed to its limit this weekend.
Though the Gators will stick to their usual 
grind by taking on Auburn at home Friday, 
they will have only brushed the surface of 
their competition for the weekend.
After the meet against the Tigers, No. 1 UF 
will travel to Morgantown, W.Va., to face off 
against West Virginia, New Hampshire and George Washington on Sunday . 
“This is a good test for our athletes both 
mentally and physically ,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. “There’s a day off in between, but it’s a day of travel, so they should be able to test themselves for back-to-back competition.” 
 The weekend will serve as additional prep-
aration for March and April, when the Gators will be faced with rigorous, consecutive com-petition for the Southeastern Conference and NCAA meets.
Faehn is using the two-meet weekend as 
an opportunity for the younger gymnasts to come out of the exhibition slot. 
Freshman walk-on Lauren Rose has already 
had a glimpse of performing in front of a col-lege crowd, having done well in exhibition on 
floor on UF’s home mats twice this season.
Rose said acclimating to college gymnastics 
was a little nerve-wracking.  
“Everyone’s watching you,” she said. “But 
[performing exhibition] helped me get out there in front of everyone. It calms my nerves 
now, to go out there.” 
Faehn plans on placing Rose in the floor 
lineup for both meets. 
Sophomore Marissa King said the rest of 
the team has seen how hard the freshmen have been working in the gym this season, 
and she is eager to see them get their chance 
to perform.
“We see that sweat, we see those tears, we see everything that they put themselves through for each practice,” King said. “To fi-nally see them to go out there and perform ... it’s something to treasure.”
King stepped back last meet, only compet-
ing on vault after bruising a foot arch in prac-tice. 
“I caught the arch of my 
foot on the corner of [the 
beam],” King said. “It’s 
painful because it’s like the corner of a table. It’s a sharp corner. It couldn’t have re-
ally been prevented. I hope 
to be back to competing 
what I normally compete 
this weekend.” 
The coaches are taking precautions with 
King this weekend, and they don’t plan to put her on floor or beam against Auburn, though 
they may have her do a watered-down floor 
routine in West Virginia. 
While some athletes will have their roles 
scaled back, other gymnasts will perform in events outside of their comfort zones. Sopho-
more Dali Lemezan may get in on vault, and junior Nicole Ellis may have a chance to com-pete on floor. 
This weekend could also pave the way for 
some injured Gators to get back in the game. 
Freshman all-arounder Brittney Noble has 
been out for most of the season due to a foot injury but was diagnosed with tendinitis by 
doctors last week. 
“We were happy that it wasn’t a stress frac-
ture,” Faehn said. “It’s something that’s pain-
ful but manageable. We’re hoping to be able to get her back in either floor and vault, if not 
this weekend, then the next weekend against 
Arkansas.” 
Florida will use upcoming meets to test the 
waters for different athletes, switching up the 
never-static lineups, allowing some gymnasts 
to shine and others to get some needed rest.
“It’s just going to be a little bit different for 
the next couple of meets,” Faehn said. “To be 
able to get everyone re-energized and to see what our depth can do.”Back-to-back meets to test durability, cause lineup shuffle
UF WOMEN’S GOLF
By ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
 
The Florida women’s golf team entered play Wednesday 
eager to redeem itself after two poor rounds at the Northrup 
Grumman Regional Challenge. 
UF coach Jan Dowling and her players were confident that, 
with a few breaks, they could leave California on a high note. 
However, things didn’t go according to plan. The Gators 
limped home with a 33-over-par score on the day and a 74-over throughout the course of the tournament, putting them in eighth. 
It was not exactly a day fit for low scoring, as wet and windy 
conditions made the intricacies of the game even more diffi-cult. 
The team’s struggles were not limited to any one golfer. Ev-
ery Gator turned in a worse third round than second, with the exception of junior Evan Jensen, who improved by one shot on Wednesday . 
Even sophomore Mia Piccio, who started the day tied for 
seventh and had been Florida’s best performer so far in the event, fell off the pace with a 7-over-par 78. 
Senior Jessica Yadloczky is still waiting for her game to turn 
around, as she shot in the 80s for a second consecutive round, this time finishing with a 12-over-par 83.
The lone bright spot was sophomore Megan Pak, whose 
score doesn’t count in the team total because she played the tournament as an individual. Her final-round 3-over-par score of 74 was the lowest posted by any of the individual golfers. 
“I am so proud of Megan,” Dowling said. “She has stayed 
patient this week … and shown improvement day after day.”
Dowling summed up the Gators’ emotions following a dis-
appointing tournament but added they will maintain a posi-tive outlook.
“The team is disappointed in the way we played today , but 
golf is sometimes about building blocks,” she said.Gators finish eighth after another rough day in CaliforniaFaehn
“The team is disappointed in the way we played 
today, but golf is sometimes about building 
blocks.”
Jan Dowling
UF women’s golf coachn TWO PLAYERS COMBINED 
FOR SEVEN GOALS IN THE OPENING 22 MINUTES.
By JOHN BOOTHE 
Alligator Writer
 
JACKSONVILLE — Early in 
the first half against Jacksonville, 
Florida held the commanding 
lead its players were looking for 
all week.
After a heartbreaking loss in 
overtime to No. 3 North Carolina 
on Saturday, sophomore Kitty 
Cullen said the No. 17 Gators wanted to “kill” the Dolphins to 
not only erase their losing record, 
but to prove a point that they were 
a quality team.
Cullen and sophomore Caro-
line Chesterman combined for 
seven goals in the first 22 min-utes against Jacksonville (1-1) on 
Wednesday night, allowing the 
Gators (1-1) to sprint out to a run-ning clock at halftime and an 18-9 
win.
Point taken.“They are all enormous offen-
sive threats,” UF coach Amanda O’Leary said. “You might be able 
to stop one, but you can’t stop the 
other six. I think that’s what hap-
pened tonight.”Along with a more potent at-
tack, Florida also improved on 
its free-position shots and draw controls; two area lacking from its 
season opener last weekend. 
Cullen was able to score the Gators’ first free-position shot this year after they previously went 0 
for 4, and sophomore Janine Hill-ier helped remedy UF’s faceoff problems by snagging a team-
high three controls. 
By the end of the game, the 
Gators had seven more draws than 
the Dolphins, which gave Cullen 
and Chesterman more time to do 
damage on fast breaks.
“This field is a little shorter, 
which helped us in transition a lot,” Cullen said. “We were able 
to get the ball up pretty fast.”
The only way the Dolphins 
were able to slow down the Gators after intermission was through the referee’s whistle. Florida recorded 
more than twice as many fouls in 
the period than Jacksonville did, 
allowing the home team to take 
advantage of unguarded penalty 
shots.
Five of the Dolphins’ six goals 
in the second half came from free-
position shots inside of 12 meters.
Though the Gators played 
hard late in the game, O’Leary said their aggressiveness was not 
as controlled as she would have 
liked it heading into the team’s home opener against Denver on 
Sunday.
“They were calling it tight, and 
I think we just need to recognize 
that quicker and just start moving our feet and quit swinging,” Cul-len said.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore Caroline Chesterman combined with fellow sophomore Kitty Cullen to score seven 
goals in the opening 22 minutes of the Gators’ 18-9 rout of Jacksonville on the road Wednesday night.
Gators use offensive outburst to cruise past Dolphins
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
After throwing a perfect game over the 
weekend and being named Southeastern 
Conference Pitcher of the Week on Monday, 
Stephanie Brombacher kept her hot start rolling Wednesday. 
Although the Gators’ offense didn’t play 
up to its lofty standards, Florida got a big lift from its senior ace, who combined with Hannah Rogers to throw a one-hit shutout as UF (6-0) picked up a 7-0 win at Jackson-ville (2-3).
After posting big power numbers 
through its first five games, Florida only managed two extra-base hits and struck out seven times against the Dolphins.
Luckily for the Gators, Brombacher was 
on her game. 
The senior dominated for five innings 
and recorded eight strikeouts. 
Florida’s ace has been pitching so well 
that Jacey Warner’s third-inning double was the first extra-base hit allowed by Bro-mbacher this year. 
UF coach Tim Walton attributed his 
team’s lack of offensive consistency to its inability to get in a rhythm due to Jackson-ville’s erratic pitching. However, he was pleased with his team’s resiliency. 
“It was a tough night to watch us hit,” 
he said. “It’s hard to hit when the pitcher is throwing that many pitches and we walk 11 times, but Stephanie was sharp early, she 
was sharp late and kept us right there.”
“They swung the bats 
well, and they were aggres-
sive,” Brombacher said. “I 
just read their swings and 
found different holes.” 
The Gators displayed 
patience at the plate, as the 
Dolphins pitching staff is-
sued 11 walks. 
But UF didn’t take ad-
vantage of early run-scoring opportunities, 
leaving the bases loaded in the third and fourth innings. 
But, leading 3-0 in the fifth after Michelle 
Moultrie drew a bases-loaded walk, the Gators’ power stroke finally showed up. 
Senior second baseman Aja Paculba hit a 
grand slam to center field to break open the game. It was the senior’s third home run of the season, and she now leads the team with 
a .478 average. 
Paculba’s timely round-tripper was es-
pecially important because the team’s usual 
power hitters struggled.
Sophomore Brittany Schutte, who en-
tered the game with a team-leading .545 average, went hitless and struck out three times. 
Megan Bush and Cheyenne Coyle, the 
No. 5 and No. 6 hitters, combined to strike 
out three times, although Coyle did draw a 
bases-loaded walk in the third inning.Brombacher, grand slam lead Florida to win over JU
Brombacher
UF SOFTBALLcome,” Dwyer said. “I wish I would’ve 
gotten it tonight, but I’m happy with it. It’s not my last (200 free).”
Dwyer’s performance ignited an 800 
relay team that finished in 6:13.74 — the 
fastest mark in the country this season 
by nearly a nine-second margin and SEC record, although Troy said he thinks his 
team is capable of even better. 
The men also set the nation’s fastest 
mark in the 200 medley relay this season 
with a 1:24.94. 
“We always have the expectation of 
winning, but I would say that one was a little more of a toss-up,” Troy said. “I was surprised that we won it by as much as we 
did.”On the women’s side, Florida recorded 
a fourth-place finish in the 200 medley re-
lay and a second-place finish in the 800 freestyle relay. 
The 800 relay featured the return of 
Shara Stafford, who had been out of action 
since Jan. 10 against Georgia Tech when 
she had to leave the pool mid-race and be attended to by paramedics. 
Stafford swam the first leg of the re-
lay and finished in 1:44.68, which put the Gators in third at that juncture. 
“That might have been the best swim 
of the meet,” Troy said. “From where she was three weeks ago and what she’s gone through … that was a big mental break-through for her.”
After Day 1, the men remain in third, 
while the women have moved into a tie for first.20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011
Saj Guevara / Alligator 
Florida senior Conor Dwyer swims the breaststroke leg of the men’s 200 medley relay 
Wednesday in the O’Connell Center. The Gators finished in 1:24.94, the nation’s best. 
UF women tied for first, men 
in third entering Day 2 of SECs
SWIMMING , from page 17
the price of the rush.
Gamblers are insular, selfish 
and boring. Normal people can’t 
deal with us.  
* * *
        The divorce finalized, self-
flagellation synergized with guilt 
spurs an outburst. Defiantly, I 
shriek at my ex-wife’s lawyer, 
“Yeah, and put in there a clause 
that I’ll pay for my children’s edu-
cation too.”
I don’t need a lawyer. I repre-
sent myself, and the result’s pre-dictable. 
With a fool for a client, my 
bravado has managed to secure a settlement that will cost $2,500 a month: $1,000 for alimony and $500 for each child.  
As a firefighter in 1992, my 
take-home pay is $1,400 a month. But I’m not worried. I’m a gam-bler.
I’ll make up the difference with 
my other assets. 
At this juncture, my other “as-
sets” include $40,000 in owed credit card debt, $22,000 I owe 
to bookies, no apartment and a 
second-hand Cadillac I bought for $1,000.  
But I don’t need intervention. I 
have it all under control. I’m well 
qualified to handle this crisis. I’ve 
got other things going for me. 
I’m a functioning alcoholic, a 
drug user and a diagnosed unipo-lar manic depressant.  
For those unfamiliar with that 
disease, the runners assembled in my brain are dressed in shorts and 
sneakers, and they’re not waiting 
for the starter’s pistol. 
Never depressed, always opti-
mistic, I see rainbows when others 
spy black seas of pain. 
Read Vonnegut’s “Slaughter -
house Five.” That’s me. I’m like 
the Jew in the boxcar on his way 
to Dachau who keeps muttering 
before he dies, “You think this is 
bad? This isn’t so bad.” 
* * *
              
I swagger out of the lawyer’s 
office, then it dawns on me. 
I’m screwed. 
Desperation creates a brain-storm. I sprint to a pay phone. 
“Blinky, I’m telling you man 
we can do this. I know 15 or 20 
guys that bet and so do you. Let’s 
take action. Let’s get on the right 
side of this shit for a change. We’ll 
clean up. We’ll still get the rush, 
but instead of paying out, we’ll collect.”  
My affliction gave me one gift: 
enthusiasm. I can sell the Pope a 
double bed. Blinky buys in. 
We’re on our way.  
* * *
Next, I call “Julius,” aka Jimmy 
Thompson. He’s the most degen-
erate gambler I know. 
Formerly a successful big-time 
bookmaker on Staten Island, he 
swapped conveyer belts of cash 
for the economic treadmill he’s on 
now. 
His passion for action is on 
par with a politician’s for power. 
Julius earned Dumpsters full of 
dollars, then shuffled the cash to 
other bookies.  
I need the expertise that flows 
from Julius’ disease.   * * *
Julius pauses, turns, wheezes 
and sputters, “I told you a shit 
neighborhood. I didn’t tell you a fourth-floor walk-up.” 
“It’s the best I could do on short 
notice,” I say.
“Stop whining, you fat bastard. 
There’s two apartments. Pick the one you think is best.”
Distracted by the stench of hu-
man urine, I round the second-floor landing.  Impatiently, I re-sume the slow ascent behind my lumbering mentor. 
From behind one of the apart-
ment doors on the landing, I hear indecipherable streams of Spanish invective. I bark above it.
“Explain to me again, Julius. 
It’s about the vigorish, right? I mean, I take a $100 bet from Jack and a $100 bet from Jill, lay them off against each other and I make 10 bucks right?”  
He stops midway up the steep 
stairs, supports both hands on the banister, gasps for breath and says, “That’s the principle. But it doesn’t work exactly like that. Don’t worry. If we ever get up these stairs, I’ll show you. Just get 
the players. 
“You can’t lose.”
* * *
My convoluted brain sees ali-
mony and child support as math 
problems not moral ones. 
This day will launch the incu-
bus I think will lead to financial 
prosperity. Instead, it will plunge 
me on the path to moral perdi-tion. 
Walk along this path with me. 
Besides “Julius,” you’ll meet a cast 
of Runyonesque characters: Bobby 
the “boost,” Joe the “thief,” Mick-
ey the “muscle,” to name a few.   
As Bette Davis said in her 
Academy Award performance as 
Margo Channing, “Buckle your 
seatbelts, it’s going to be a bumpy 
ride.”
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam 
veteran, former Bronx firefighter 
and pub and restaurant owner. He 
is currently a journalism major at 
UF and a standup comic. The highly 
irreverent and acerbic O’Connor per-
forms free standup comedy in various 
locations in Gainesville. BILL , from page 17