We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 74 THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n  Gators fresh-
man hurler Hannah 
Rogers leads the 
conference in wins 
and is one of three 
freshmen Florida is 
counting on in the 
NCAA Tournament  
beginning Friday.
See Story, Page 18.n For coverage of 
the Alachua County 
Commission’s 
struggle to deal 
with a $2.5 million 
budget gap, visit 
alligator.org. LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) — Police in Nebraska say 
they’ve nabbed a pair of suspected grease thieves, 
thanks in part to the smell of old french fries.
Christy Harris, of Everton, Mo., and Jesse Moore, of 
Springfield, Mo., are charged with larceny. They’re sus-pected of siphoning used cooking oil from a bin outside a Lincoln restaurant. Police think they may be involved in several other grease thefts. Harris and Moore were arrested early Wednesday after police stopped a pickup truck hauling a big tank. Officers say the tank smelled like “old, stale french fries.” Neb. police arrest 2 from Missouri on grease theft
Sunny
88/64FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Unlocking the past
Each of these brass post boxes at the Wood and Swink Old Store and Post Office accounts for one of the 
houses in Evinston, a tiny rural town east of Micanopy. Wilma Sue Brown Wood, who was postmaster for 32 years, knows the names of each of the boxes’ owners. For more of this store, see page 4.
By DANIELA GUZMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
As a great-great-grandson of a secretary of war, grand-
son of the drafter of the Nagasaki bombings and son of a 
minuteman missile operator, Keith McHenry , 54, has deep roots in American war history.
With a namesake entrenched in U.S. military conflict, he 
feels compelled to walk another path. He is an international peace activist.
He was one of several members of The Coalition to End 
the Meal Limit NOW! who rallied Wednesday afternoon at the farmers market in Bo Diddley Plaza in downtown Gainesville.
 “I feel like I have a responsibility to return America to a 
democracy, if it ever was one,” McHenry explained during a recent presentation at the Civic Media Center. 
The coalition is a collective initiative to get the 130-meal 
limit at St. Francis House. The coalition is proposing to change the cap to a three-hour block of time in which meals can be served. Coalition calls 
for repeal of meal limitBy ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Body President 
Ben Meyers announced an execu-
tive order to form a Free Printing 
Task Force at a student senate meeting Tuesday night. 
Meyers, who assumed the po-
sition of Student Body President 
earlier this month, said expand-
ing free printing for students was one of his top platform points. 
“Right now, we have the third 
floor of the Reitz Union,” Mey-ers said in an interview after the meeting. “You can go there and wait in a 45-minute line. My goal 
is to have [free printing] every-
where.”
He said the measure is easier 
said than done.
Expanding printing privileg-
es means expanding computer labs, which means more money. Meyers said he expects that por -
tion of the project to cost about 
$300,000. 
The project would be funded 
out of the Activities and Services 
fee, which is used to fund a vari-
ety of campus projects, organiza-
tions and events.
Another part of the new free printing process would be a real-location of paper resources. 
Currently, each student has a 
300-page print-
ing quota per semester. Mey-ers wants to 
eliminate the 
quota and in-stead give stu-dents unlimited printing from a 
central pot.
That means students who have 
500-page projects due at the end of the semester can print them all 
using university resources, since a student who takes all online 
classes wouldn’t be using his or her 300 pages. 
Officials will debate whether a 
central printing pot can meet the 
students’ demands. They face the 
question of whether student fees would have to be raised.
Meyers said he is unsure 
whether central printing is the solution, and the committee is charged with finding that solution.  
  At the meeting Tuesday, the senate voted in 21 temporary 
senators, each of whom will fill 
the void left by senators leaving for parts of the summer. 
Eighteen temporary seats and 
three permanent seats remain un-filled.SG president calls for expansion of free printing 
SEE RALLY, p AGE 5Meyers
“I feel like I have a responsibility to return 
America to a democracy, if it ever was one.”
Keith McHenry
Food Not Bombs founderUF PRINTING FACTS
§ Current quota: 300 
pages per student
§ Meyers wants to elimi-
nate the quota, allowing 
students uncapped print -
ing from a common pool of pages.
§ Cost Estimate: $300,000
§ The SG printing lab is 
located on the third floor of 
the Reitz Union.Project is expected to cost $300,000News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 74 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.NATIONAL
Yale suspends embattled 
frat for sexist chants 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. — A 
prestigious Yale fraternity is be-
ing banned from recruiting and holding activities on campus for five years after pledges were or -
dered to chant obscenities against women.
Yale says it has also disciplined 
several Delta Kappa Epsilon members and asked the fraterni-ty’s national office to suspend the chapter for five years.
The fraternity, which was 
founded at Yale in 1855, came un-
der fire in October after pledges 
marched through campus and chanted phrases about sex acts including necrophilia. Chapter leaders later apologized, and the fraternity’s national office in Ann Arbor, Mich., ordered them to stop all pledge activities.
Yale says the discipline was 
necessary to ensure “an educa-tional environment free from ha-rassment and intimidation.”
Doug Lanpher, executive di-
rector of international DKE of-ton was incorrectly identified as 
a UF student. She is the UF Of-fice of Sustainability’s outreach 
coordinator. We regret the er -
ror.
In a story published in Tues-
day’s edition of the Alligator, a 
story made mention of “Zach Brown Band.” The band’s name is Zac Brown Band. We regret 
the error.fice, said he was surprised and 
disappointed Yale made the an-
nouncement because he thought 
the negotiations were confiden-tial. He said the fraternity had dealt with the matter internally by placing the chapter on proba-tion, ceasing its pledging activi-ties immediately and develop-ing a new pledging process.
“We know it was in poor 
taste,” Lanpher said of the in-cident. “We don’t advocate what they said. We believe that the chapter’s behavior has changed.”
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CORRECTIONS
In a story published in the 
Thursday, May 12 edition of 
the Alligator, Ashley Penning-SUNNY
88/64SUNNY
93/66SUNNY
94/68SUNNY
94/68PARTLY
CLOUDY
92/68MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
 NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, 
  aorlando@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simontom, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Brittany Fink, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Claire Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stevens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras 
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Staff Writer 
The locals come for their mail and a 
place to get out of the sun. Out-of-towners 
come to show knee-high passengers the life their great-granddaddies once knew. 
Time, like U.S. Highway 441 and later 
I-75, has passed Evinston by. 
Driving down County Road 225, a slim, 
rough road with faded lane markers, 20 minutes south of Gainesville, you barely know you’re there before you’ve passed it.
Since 1884, every one of Evinston’s 
houses, Victorian-era buildings that stand in cattle pastures along the road, has been accounted for by 92 brass post boxes lining 
a wall in the Wood and Swink Old Store 
and Post Office. 
Out front, it looks like a typical Florida 
cracker house with a tin roof and pine walls. Most of the time, one or more of the locals 
are on the front porch, perched in the shade 
atop a long bench.
Inside stands a rusty red Coca-Cola 
cooler, a store-length counter and the wom-
an who worked 32 years as Evinston’s post-
master, Wilma Sue Brown Wood with her husband, Freddie Wood Jr.
Outside the store’s pine-shuttered win-
dows, the Woods have seen change. The 
wagons that pulled up to the store have 
been replaced with SUVs and hybrids. They’ve seen young ones, who toddled into the store for sweets, grow up and bring 
their own children in.
Change hasn’t hit so quickly inside the 
store. Bubble gum still goes for 3 cents. A 
can of Coke costs 60 cents. A 1950s cash reg-ister still chirps from the corner. 
Cash or check only. No cards.The only change, a rise in the town’s population, is tallied on the front wall. Starting with 25 tiny brass post boxes, the Woods had to install 83 more over the years 
for 108 boxes. Ninety-two are still in use. 
The Woods know all the box’s owners by first name.
By 7:30 every morning, Brown Wood is 
in the store, filing letters into their respec-tive boxes. She strings up the Stars and Stripes on a pine flag pole, just off the front porch, then waits for customers to trail in.
In her time at the store, she can only re-
member one instance when she showed up late for work. That was when 200 head of cattle, loose from a nearby farm, blocked her way to the door.
“I just got out and hollered at them,” she said. “They moved.”
From noon to 2 p.m., she heads back to 
the farm, where she meets Freddie to make 
him a ham and cheese sandwich. Then it’s 
back to the store to wait on customers until 4 p.m.
She’s done all of this for 32 years without 
air conditioning or heat ventilation. In the summer, she opens the store for the winds that whip off Orange Lake.
On winter days, it’s common to find her 
bundled up behind the counter. The cold 
bothers her.
Most of the time, her customers are the 
ones who pop in and out for mail and to 
share stories. Tourists come on weekends, 
usually led by friendly recommendation.But a few dozen customers buying 
goods at half their market value isn’t going 
to keep the doors open.
On a good year, it’s barely enough to 
meet operating costs.
After Wilma retired a year ago, Evinston 
has been hard-pressed to find another post-
master— someone who is willing to bear 
the summer heat under the hot tin roof. Right now, Scarlett Kineler, Post Master Re-lief, runs the office temporarily. The Woods run the store on a volunteer basis. 
The next postmaster will be appointed 
by the U.S. Postal Service, but the Woods say they want to make it easier for whoever gets the job. 
Freddie Wood III, the couple’s son, said 
the renovations could be thought of as a $50,000 act of southern hospitality. 
Those renovations include central air 
and heat, restrooms, a handicap ramp, 
wood-plank floors and windows and a 
glass alcove.
Wood remembers working in the store 
when he was about 10 years old. He’s 45 
now, but even he can recall horses and bug-
gies pulling up to the store.
Woodward Coleman, a stooped-over old 
man who lived up the road, couldn’t see well enough to drive his truck into town, 
so he would drive his mule-drawn wagon 
every day to pick up his mail.
Wood tells that story to customers who 
linger and will probably tell it to his 2-year-
old son, Freddie Wood IV .
That’s why he said the store should be 
maintained and protected from any buy-
ers.
“It would be a shame to have that hap-
pen with all the history that’s here,” he said. “Things like that would just disappear if they weren’t told to people who come in.”4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Freddie Wood Jr., a volunteer at the Wood and Swink Old Store and Post Office, waits 
for customers next to a portrait of himself. 
LOcAL
At general store, customers come for mail, memories
 TENTACLED CREATURES USED 
FOR RESEARCH ON BACTERIA AND HUMAN IMMUNE SYSTEM
By EMILY MORROW 
Alligator Writer
Three baby squid aboard the space shut-
tle Endeavor had 24 hours to enjoy outer 
space before they — and the experiment they were a part of —  were terminated.
Those 24 hours were all UF assistant 
professor Jamie Foster needed to get the 
results she’s looking for — results that may 
shed light on the effects of microgravity on astronaut health. 
Foster used bobtail squid, a species that 
has a symbiotic relationship with the bac-teria Vibrio fischeri, as a model for similar relationships between bacteria and the hu-
man body.
Astronauts often experience weakened 
immune systems as a result of space trav-el.
Previous research has shown that dis-
ease-causing bacteria can become more harmful in space, but Foster seeks to exam-
ine the effects of space on the body’s “good” bacteria, such as the bacteria  essential for 
digestion or immune-system responses.  “Do good bacteria go bad?” she asked.
Bobtail squid use bacteria from their en-
vironment to produce light, which help the squid avoid predators by enabling them to 
move through the water without casting a shadow.
The three squid aboard the shuttle were 
placed in saltwater-filled, Sharpie-sized tubes.
Astronaut Greg Chamitoff added the 
bacteria to the squids’ en-vironment once the shut-
tle entered orbit.
After enough time had 
passed for the squid to absorb the bacteria, Chamitoff added a preservative, killing the 
squid and preserving their bodies for Fos-ter’s dissection upon the shuttle’s return 
June 1.
Bacteria make up 90 percent of cells in 
the human body. Foster’s squid will help scientists understand how the stresses of 
space travel affect those cells.
“The ultimate goal is to pro-
tect their health and reduce any risks for astronauts who may be up there for weeks, even months,” she said.  
Foster will replicate the experiment and send another three squid to space with the space shuttle Atlantis on its launch, set for 
early July.From cosmic to calamari; UF 
prof’s squids go to space 
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer 
The UF College of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences announced ear -
lier this week that Teresa Balser will 
serve as its new dean.
The college launched a nation-
wide search and narrowed its search 
to four candidates before deciding 
on Balser, said Jack Payne, UF’s se-
nior vice president for agriculture and natural resources.
Balser, who previously served at 
the University of Wisconsin-Madi-
son, is the first woman dean of the 
college, he said. 
Payne said he selected Balser be-
cause she possessed a passion for 
innovation in education, which fell 
in line with his vision. 
“You know how they used to say, 
‘If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it?’” he said. “Well, in my mind, if it ain’t 
broke, let’s make it better.”
In an interview Wednesday, Bals-
er said her goal is to make education 
less of a one-size-fits-all experience.“I want students to learn things 
the  way that we naturally learn new 
things,” she said. “It’s not normal to 
sit in a classroom and memorize a 
giant textbook. It’s not how people 
learn things in the real world.”
She said she wants to have stu-
dents identify their career goals 
early on and find something that 
works for them. She suggested hav-
ing students take 
smaller seminar 
courses early on or 
try learning in the 
field and focus on 
why students are 
learning the ma-
terial. However, she’s leaving it open for debate. 
“I don’t have all the ideas,” she 
said. “I have some, but [I want to 
say] to students, ‘What do you think 
will work for you?’”
Balser will officially begin her 
work July 1 but  won’t arrive to 
campus until later because she is 
currently looking for a house in the area.New dean announced 
for college of agriculture
UFAcademic s
Balser
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Alex Orlando / Alligator
The Starbucks on 3822 Newberry Road and 39th Street will close May 22.
LOCAL
By MICHAEL SYKES
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Starbucks store located at 3822 
Newberry Road and 39th Street is sched-
uled to close on May 22, according to 
an email from Kristin Hill, a Starbucks 
spokeswoman. 
Hill would not say why the store is 
closing.
Yvette Little, 22, a UF health science 
graduate, said she doesn’t know why 
the 39th Street store would close.
“It’s always packed when I’m here,” 
she said.
Little said she visits the store often to 
use the Internet and have a cup of cof-
fee, always bringing her own creamer.  Little is a massage therapist at A Better 
Massage on Northwest 43rd Street and 
said the Starbucks is the most conve-
nient place for her to use the Internet 
while she’s on call for work.  
Matt Cohen, 25, and Jonathan Trinas-tic, 27, doctoral students at UF, like the 
store because it’s not as busy as some of 
the others, which might be why it’s clos-
ing, they said.
“I know [being slow] is bad for busi-
ness,” Cohen said. “But it’s why I like 
coming to this Starbucks, that and the baristas.”
Workers at the Newberry Road Star -
bucks near the Oaks Mall said the loca-tion of the 39th store is too difficult to see 
because the store is heavily surrounded 
by trees and other buildings.
Workers said most of the employees 
from the 39th Street store will work at the other Starbucks locations, and some 
have already started taking shifts there.Local Starbucks loses steam, set to close Sunday 
Picketers call for three-hour window instead of 130-meal limit
Local supporters marched to 
the Paradigm Properties offices on 
Main Street Wednesday to protest what Nathan Collier, owner of par -
ent company Collier Companies, 
has chosen to be his public stance on 
feeding the homeless in the down-
town area.
The coalition and other citizens 
said they are upset over an email 
Collier sent to the City Commis-sion in March with the subject line, “PLEASE keep Downtown Meal Limit! Vagrants are a serious, on-
going problem at Arlington Square 
Apartments downtown.”
The coalition believes that devel-
opers have been influential in keep-ing the meal limit, even after the City Plan Board prompted the City Com-mission in March to replace it for the three-hour block alternative.
“It’s not just for the homeless, 
it’s the working poor that need to be fed,” said Trisha Ingle, a picketer with the coalition. “The millionaires don’t want the dirty , unwashed masses near their places of busi-
ness.”
McHenry was an art student at 
Boston University 
when he started Food Not Bombs with seven 
other students. 
More than 30 years later, the au-
tonomous organization is dedicated 
to salvaging and sharing food to promote political change and has movements in cities all over the world, including Gainesville.
Feeding programs like Food 
Not Bombs have been a focus in Gainesville since the city passed an ordinance that restricts the amount of meals served at St. Francis House to 130 meals a day.
While the city has said it is resi-
dents and business owners who are in favor of the meal limit, the recent influx of petitions from the South-
east Gainesville neighborhood dem-
onstrates otherwise, according to a release from the Coalition to End the Meal Limit NOW!.
Robbie Czopek, 26, is part of the 
information committee of the coali-tion and a local Food Not Bombs supporter and has seen the need for nutritional aid through both groups.  
After hearing McHenry speak 
about the food-sharing practices of Food Not Bombs, Czepok said, “The need for local feeding programs is there, and there are solutions avail-
able.”
RALLY , from page 1
NewsLocal“It’s always packed when I’m 
here.”
Yvette Little
UF health science graduateThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
61 TOTAL VOTES61% YES39% NOMonday’s question: Are you sad Common Grounds is closing?Today’s question: Do you use free printing on campus?Bankrupt
Once again, Scott takes 
aim at education system
In the wake of one of the most dysfunctional and ego-
driven legislative sessions in state history, our state’s Criminal-in-Chief and Voldemort stunt-double Rick 
Scott announced earlier this week that the efforts from his Hollywood-haired, Reagan-idolizing minions to hack away at Florida’s budget didn’t quite go as far as he would have liked.
With a budget that’s about $4 billion lighter, the Prince 
of Darkness still wants to find “additional savings.” One of his targets: state university and college building projects. 
We understand that this state cannot afford to ride a 
gravy train of taxpayer revenue given the current eco-
nomic climate and its affect on the Sunshine State. This 
is a recession and sacrifices need to be made.  However, Scott’s decision to once again take a swing at Florida’s uni-versity system illustrates an ideologically driven pseudo-
politico’s disenchantment with reality. For an educational 
system that, through poor management and oversight, al-ready has one foot in the grave and the other one slipping, this move represents another kick to the crutch by state government.
If there is one person who would probably love to de-
liver Sweet Chin Music to Slick Rick, it’s Bernie Machen. He already faces the tall task of finding a way to bridge a deficit that stands at $33 million, following proposed 
tuition hikes, without laying off any personnel or cutting 
any programs. Now he faces the prospect of having Tal-lahassee further tightening its purse strings.
We don’t say this often, but we feel for Bernie. Our hearts don’t bleed at the thought of losing out on 
another magnificent stroke of architecture. It’s the message behind the governor’s move that troubles us. He has once again demonstrated a gross sense of apathy toward the state’s higher education system. Through his numerous 
stumbles in logic, he believes that turning a cold shoulder 
to the public university system will somehow expedite his pledge to create private sector jobs.
If the governor was truly serious about “additional 
savings,” he would focus his financial crosshairs on the 
numerous pet projects of those who have been charged 
to write our laws. If he wanted to show the state his no-nonsense approach to our state’s ability to toss taxpayer money like Pacman Jones at the “scrip club,” he would 
wield his hatchet against some of  his most loyal apostles, 
the ones who think government has grown to the size of a Macy’s Thanksgiving Day balloon.
But surely that wouldn’t be the most politically sav-
vy thing for our governor to do. In fact, it would just be 
downright inconvenient.  One could even got as far as to 
call it — wait for it — “common sen--.”
Oh wait, we forgot. You don’t say that when speaking 
of the Great Carnival at the Capitol.
So instead, on behalf of all the universities who are feel-
ing the cold hand of the Dark Lord growing tighter around their necks, we are going to extend a highly-cultivated, well-educated, double-fisted, “line-item-this” middle-fin-ger salutes toward Tallahassee. 
If things keep going the way our state government  
wants them, it will be the only thing that both they and our students will be able to read.Interventionism is glorified bullying
Imagine waking up disoriented from the bright glare of a 
flashlight and the sound of snarling dogs and foreigners ripping you, your spouse and your children out of bed. 
In the United States, we’d think this was a home invasion, but in Afghanistan, this scene is a commonplace nighttime 
raid by our troops, another callous example of American in-
terventionism. 
Liberals pulled us into Libya because Gadhafi was 
“poised” to murder all the dissenters. What direct benefit is our intervention to the U.S. taxpayers?  More importantly, why are we dropping bombs when Congress did not declare war? Many liberals turn this into a humanitarian issue, but the United States is not the world’s big brother. I understand some feel we cannot idly sit by , but my taxes support the 
American government. Every dollar siphoned to “saving” 
foreigners is a dollar siphoned from our schools, infrastruc-ture or research.  
On the other side of the aisle, Republicans, beholden to 
the military-industrial complex, advocate a worldview that appoints the United States to maintain order in the world. With  election season heating up, I’m sure many Republicans testing out the presidential waters are sure to talk about Iran. “We’ll bomb their facilities,” they’ll say, “because it is unac-
ceptable for Iran to have a nuke.” 
Perhaps Iran is acting defensively. Perhaps they are wor -
ried about us; we do have a track record of overthrowing 
their government. We do have troops on both sides of Iran. 
Contrary to what Fox News tells us, Iran does not pose a 
threat to the very existence of the United States.
Rep. Ron Paul often preaches about the concept of blow-
back, the idea that when we try to impose our will on for -
eign lands we will suffer unforeseen externalities. A prime 
example would be the Iranian coup in 1953, which helped 
set up the 1979 Iranian Revolution and the installment of the current anti-West regime in Iran. According to Paul, they don’t hate us over there because we’re fat or rich; they hate us because we try to impose our will everywhere. The United States has a de facto military empire. Are our hundreds of abroad military bases really necessary?
In truth, we are not an empire; we 
are a republic, and it’s about time we 
started acting like one. Get out of Lib-
ya before it’s too late. Leave Iraq. Be-queath Afghanistan to someone else. 
“Peace, commerce and honest 
friendship with all nations, entangl-
ing alliances with none,” Thomas Jefferson once said. The founders envisioned the United States as a humble republic. It wasn’t until the Spanish-American War in 1898 that non-interventionism was defenestrated.
Military intervention is a red herring to avert attention 
from the real problems facing our nation. It is not up to us to fix other countries, yet politicians seem to find it easier to invade half of the Middle East than get our fiscal house in order.
In the end, it comes down to dollars and cents. With our 
national debt approaching the gross domestic product, we cannot afford nonessential military intervention. The loss of life anywhere is unfortunate, but unless our national security 
is at extreme risk, we ought to think long and hard before 
dropping bombs. 
Our nation is many things: the lab for scientific innova-
tion, the cultural trendsetter and a global beacon of hope. It should not sink to the level of  schoolyard bully. Any politi-cian arguing for the need to intervene in the affairs of others is full of hot air. 
We have much bigger fish to fry. Instead, politicians 
should focus on balancing the budget, paying off our debt, 
attracting manufacturing jobs, revamping public education, 
and improving the economy to ensure the 21st century will be another American century.
Chris Ceresa is a chemistry sophomore. His column appears on 
Thursdays.
Chris Ceresa
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Gov. Scott should be impeached
Gov. Rick Scott needs to go. In his 
first few months of office he has single-
handedly killed the best opportunity this state had for economic develop-ment and job growth, further destroyed 
our education system, attempted to bal-
ance the state’s budget on the backs of our middle class and much more. Or should I say so much less? He is the most corrupt American politician since Boss Tweed and is twice as creepy look-ing. Like Tammany Hall, he needs to be eliminated. The high-speed rail would have brought about 24,000 jobs to our 
state, one of the hardest hit states by the 
recession. It also would have marked an economic and technological step forward. Scott opposed and effectively slaughtered the rail  for pure petty poli-tics.
Scott ran for governor under one 
promise: jobs. Yet he destroyed the first and best opportunity he had to keep 
that promise. He let down the 2,619,335 
people who agreed with his vision and voted for him in November. The liber -
als in this state and those who support-ed the rail shouldn’t be the most upset citizens right now. The unemployed voters who gave Scott a percentage-point victory over Alex Sink should be. 
Furthermore, he has balanced Florida’s 
troubled budget on the backs of the middle class and the people who put him in office. Cutting teacher’s pen-sions and putting the education of our posterity at risk is not a Republican thing to do. Florida is now the most fru-gal state when it comes to helping the unemployed. 
As a state, we shouldn’t mope over 
Scott’s past injuries upon our liveli-hoods, our children and our democracy . It is time we join State Rep. Rick Krise-man’s efforts to pass a bill in the Florida legislature that would allow us to recall state officials. As of now, the only way to get rid of Scott is through impeach-ment. If his abuses continue, we should 
not forget about that option.This man is 
a million dollars more corrupt than Ber -
nie Madoff and would probably lose a re-election to him. Why suffer until 2014? Let’s eliminate the dark storm over the Sunshine State now!
Jose Perez
UF Student
Letter to the Editor
As I was placing my weekly necessities on the conveyor 
belt at Sweetbay one morning, I glanced at the maga-zines begging for my attention in front of me. Of course, 
I noticed the emaciated, indeterminate women on the covers and was forced to wonder, “Are these people even real?” Actu-
ally, with today’s photo manipulation, they often are not. 
I was especially bemused by the comments plastered over 
the magazines I looked at. One announced the breaking news of 
a celebrity who had gained 20 pounds. Unbelievable, I know.
It is often said that women are oppressed in certain foreign 
countries. Indeed, some foreign countries deny equality, basic rights and lifestyle options to women. This is an unfortunate reality.
What is not said is that women are also subjugated in Amer -
ican society . No longer are women domineered by a lack of voting rights or career options. Instead, their emotions are held hostage by something more personal: their body image.
The body image issues that plague Hollywood have spread 
throughout the country . The slender, interchangeable bodies that are force-fed through television, magazines and movies have become the desire of the typical American woman. Often, the desire becomes an unhealthy obsession. Re-cently , many actresses have spoken out 
against the media fascination with thin-
ness — they are among the lucky ones who have escaped their consuming ob-session.
The South Carolina Department of 
Mental Health estimates that 7 million 
American women suffer from an eating disorder. Of all mental illnesses, eating disorders are most fatal. College women are especially at risk. A study by Kalodner and Scarano found that 
85 percent of college women believe they are overweight. Less 
than a third of them actually are. A study by Polivy and Her -
man found that the development of eating disorders appears to be influenced by sociocultural factors. Similar studies show that exposure to mass media is correlated with negative body image and eating disorders. 
Eating disorders affect entire families. I am but one of mil-
lions who have witnessed a loved one fight through an eating disorder. Make no mistake, these eating disorders are personal mental health disorders. 
Don’t get me wrong; remaining fit is a vital part of a healthy, 
fulfilling lifestyle. Being skinny, however, is not necessarily 
healthy nor is it a reasonable health goal. It is simply the arbi-
trary , current demand society has placed on women. 
This demand has transformed throughout history. In the 
past, some cultures viewed larger figures as most desirable in women. Skinny is nothing more than the new “pleasantly plump.”
And here’s a secret they might not tell you: You won’t be 
any happier at a lighter weight than you are now. A 2001 study by Hoyt and Kogan found that underweight, normal weight 
and overweight women were all equally likely to be satisfied – 
or unsatisfied – with their weight. 
Don’t ditch the gym, though. It is good for your health. 
Thin, average or plump - it really doesn’t matter. Your weight won’t define your happiness. Your own body image is all that’s important.
Abdul Zalikha is an microbiology junior at UF. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays.Self-image and the scale: the henchmen of eating disordersColumn
Abdul Zalikha
letters@alligator.orgtheAvenue         thursday, may 19, 2011
INSIDE: 
Pg. 9:  Check out Carter Lyles’ 
inaugural Tech Effect column 
and read up on weekend get-aways in Gainesville.Pg. 10:  Discover some new lo-cal music with Protagonist and Spanish Gamble and get your grub on with our list of places to eat over summer.Pg. 11: Delve into Groove-shark’s recent milestone and read Thomas Nassiff’s opinion on the music streaming website in this week’s Off The Record.
NEXT WEEK: 
Next week’s Avenue will fea-
ture a look into the 15 years of Common Grounds’ existence as a local music venue and land-mark in Gainesville’s hallowed punk rock scene. Be sure to pick up the issue as a tribute to one of the best venues Gainesville has ever had.
NEW RELEASES:
Here’s a look into the upcom -
ing month of new music releases 
across the nation.
w MAY 24
David Bazan  - Strange Nego-
tiations
Fireworks - GospelInto It. Over It./Such Gold - Split
w
 MAY 31
Death Cab For Cutie  - Codes 
And Keysw 
JUNE 7
All Time Low - Dirty Work
Arctic Monkeys - Suck It And 
SeeFrank Turner - England, Keep 
My BonesTouche Amore - Parting The 
Sea Between Brightness And Me
w
 JUNE 14
The Swellers  - Good For Me
The Wonder Years - Suburbia 
I’ve Given You All And Now I’m 
NothingOwl City  - All Things Bright And 
BeautifulAndy Maroon and Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff
See story, page 92011 SUMMER MOVIE GUIDE
MAY
JUNE
J U LY
AUGUST20th :
 Pirates of the Caribbean: On 
Stranger Tides (Johnny Depp, Penélope 
Cruz, Geoffrey Rush)27th :
 Hangover II  (Bradley Cooper, Ed Helms, Zach 
Galifianakis) Kung Fu Panda 2  (Jack Black, Angelina 
Jolie, Dustin Hoffman) The Tree Of Life  (Brad Pitt, Sean Penn and 
Jessica Chastain)
3rd :
 X-Men: First Class  (James McAvoy, 
Michael Fassbender, Kevin Bacon)10th :
 Super 8 (Gabriel Basso, Kyle Chandler, Joel Courtney) Judy Moody And The Not Bummer Summer  
(Jordana Beatty, Heather Graham)
17th :
 Green Lantern  (Ryan Reynolds, 
Blake Lively, Peter Sarsgaard) Mr. Popper’s Penguins  (Jim 
Carrey, Carla Gugino)24th :
 Cars 2 (Owen Wilson, Larry the Cable Guy, Michael Caine) Bad Teacher  (Cameron Diaz, Justin 
Timberlake, Jason Segal)
1 st :
 Transformers: Dark of the Moon (Shia LaBeouf, Josh Duhamel, Tyrese Gibson) Larry Crowne  (Tom Hanks, Julia 
Roberts) Monte Carlo  (Selena Gomez, 
Leighton Meester)8th :
 Horrible Bosses  (Jason Bateman, Charlie 
Day, Jason Sudeikis) The Zookeeper  (Kevin James, Rosario Dawson)
5th :
 Rise of the Apes (James Franco, Freida Pinto, 
John Lithgow) The Change-Up  (Ryan Reynolds, Jason Bateman)15th :
 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Pt. II (Daniel Radcliffe, 
Rupert Grint, Emma Watson) Winnie The Pooh  (Jim Cummings, 
Craig Ferguson)22nd :
 Captain America (Chris Evans, Tommy Lee 
Jones, Hugo Weaving)
 Friends With Benefits (Emma Stone, Mila 
Kunis, Justin Timberlake)
29th :
 Cowboys and Aliens (Daniel Craig, Harrison 
Ford, Olivia Wilde)
 Crazy, Stupid, Love. (Steve Carell, Ryan 
Gosling, Julianne Moore))By CARTER LYLES
avenue columnist
In 1984, America was introduced to Cyber -
dyne through the science fiction film “The Ter -
minator.” Now, more than 30 years later, we’re 
getting to know a new Cyberdyne.
Cyberdyne Inc. of Japan has created a new 
technology which it hopes will be applied to vari-ous fields of rehabilitation support, physical train-ing, heavy labor support and rescue support at disaster sites.
Cyberdyne’s achievement is named HAL (Hy -
brid Assistive Limb), a robotic suit that allows the wearer to augment their daily activities through its unique biosignal sensors that detect finite movements of the voluntary control system. 
Simply put, HAL reads the most imperceptible 
signals that are given off from the skin when we are preparing to move, and interprets those sig-nals into electronic cues that allow HAL to move with you, rather than move for you.
Developed by Professor Yoshiyuki Sankai of 
the University of Tsukuba, HAL provides a revo -
lutionary step in aiding both para- and quadriple -
gic patients as well as giving the extra strength 
that relief and rescue workers may need in times 
of disaster. The suit allows the wearer to lift 88 pounds more than what he could normally lift and aids the endurance of the occupant by tak -ing the strain off the human form and placing it 
on the robot’s hydraulics.
Yet however benevolent the intentions of the creators of HAL are, the situation is still ironic. 
In the “Terminator” franchise, the machines 
refer to themselves as cyborgs, as “living tis-sue over a metal endoskeleton.” The irony here is that the Series 800 Model 101s that Arnold 
Schwarzenegger portrayed are machine on the inside, human on the outside. In reality, HAL is the outer machine covering that protects the liv -
ing tissue of the human inside.
As stated in promotional videos, “[HAL is] 
the attempt to unite human with machine ... In other words, cyborg technology’s breakthrough has been expected, all over the world.” Even in 
Forbes magazine, HAL is being lauded as the 
“Rise of the Cyborg.”
It’s no secret that one of the underlying goals 
of technology these days is to unite human with machine. Just look at recent breakthroughs such as the iPad and even something as simple as TiVo. Integration is the name of the game, and both Cyberdyne and Yoshiyuki Sankai recognize this. 
“My basic motivation is to develop devices 
to enhance and expand human ability,” Sankai said.
As of today, the unit (and its newest iteration, 
the lighter and leaner lower-body suit which was showcased at this year’s International Forum on Cybernics) is available for rental at the rate of $2,200 per month and must be recharged every five hours. 
But for all the Tony Stark wannabes, the 
chance to feel like Iron Man is priceless.thursday, may 19, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Beat the Gainesville blues: five places to hang out on weekends
By SHELBY WEBB
avenue writer
Summer A is in full swing, and 
what have you done so far — nursed 
your hangovers and lain out by the pool? While this seems like all we’re doing these days, there are tons of fun 
things to do in and out of Gainesville 
that you haven’t done every day for the past two weeks. 
Here are some fun ideas for what-
ever you feel like doing with your day.
Playing:Bob’s River Place
All the way out in Dixie County, 
Bob’s River Place is about a 40-min-
ute trip from Gainesville, but it’s worth every second. Bob’s has floating docks and rope swings galore, ranging from amateur to the fear-inducing “Demon.” Admission is $15 a carload for a daily pass, or $55 a carload for an annual pass. Bob’s is a fun and relaxing place, 
but you’ll have to come prepared for 
the day because no food is sold. Bob’s Myspace page (myspace.com/dixieco-bobsriverplace) has more info.Chilling:
Ginnie Springs
Ginnie Springs is one of the most 
popular spots for Gators to cool off. Students can tube down the river, see 
the seven springs dotted throughout the route, kayak, snorkel and even scuba dive. The best part is that Ginnie is 
a campground too, so you can bring some friends and stay for the week -
end. Admission is $12 for each adult and $20.40 to go camping. You can visit ginniespringsoutdoors.com to get 
directions and more info.
Grooving:
Free FridaysFrom May to October, the Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza offers Free Fridays every Friday night from 8-10 p.m. Local bands and performing arts groups perform for free, so you can grab your blanket or lawn chair and 
enjoy some free entertainment! The 
plaza is on the corner of SE First Street and University Avenue in downtown.
Water Sporting:Lake Wauburg  
A favorite among UF students, Lake Wauberg is free for anyone with a valid Gator 1 Card. It offers water ski-ing, wakeboarding, sailing, boating, a climbing wall, disc golf, picnicking, sand volleyball and football. The North Park is open from noon to 6 p.m. Tues-day through Friday, and the South Shore is open from 1-6 p.m. Both ar -
eas are open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays. To get there, just head south on 13th Street until you see the signs!The Tech Effect: Cyberdyne makes cyborgs a realityHarry Potter finale highlights packed summer season
By ANDY MAROON
avenue columnist
This summer’s movie season is shaping up to be one of the 
biggest in recent years. With  “The Hangover 2,” “Harry Potter And 
The Deathly Hallows: Part 2” and “Transformers: Dark Side of the Moon,” there will be no shortage of laughs, magic or explosions for the next few months.
On May 26, the Wolfpack is back. This time the gang finds them-
selves in Thailand after Stu’s “pre-wedding brunch” goes horribly 
wrong. The entire cast returns for the sequel, including fan favor -
ites Ken Jeong and Mike Tyson.  “The Hangover” was the breakout comedy of the summer back in 2009 and without much competi-
tion, I don’t see why this sequel should be any different.
Shia LaBeouf and a bunch of CGI robots re -
turn July 1 for the third installment of Michael Bay’s “Transformers” series. Bay and LaBeouf 
acknowledged that this effort would be much better than the disappointing second episode. 
Arguably the most anticipated movie of the 
summer is “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hal-lows Part 2.” On July 15, the closing installment 
of the 10-year series will have fans donning their robes and wands to stand in line one final time. The first part of “Deathly Hallows” sparked life back into the 
series after a very disappointing “Half-Blood Prince” in 2009. Let’s 
face it: you can’t turn a 650-page book into a 2-hour movie without 
making it feel like a SportsCenter highlight reel. 
With the “Deathly Hallows” book running more than 750 pages, 
the studio had no choice but to break the final film into two parts, or suffer the wrath of millions of angry Potter fans flinging Avada Kedavra curses their way.
Splitting the final book into two films was a win-win. Fans get a 
movie that is a more accurate portrayal of the book, and the studio 
gets to cash in on the Potter franchise one last time.
Courtesy of cyberdyne.jp/english
Cyberdyne Inc. of Japan is taking cyborg technology to a new level with their HAL suit.
  2 DoStuff 10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, may 19, 2011
Local punkers Protagonist release “States” EP 
  By KATHLEEN BOYLE
 avenue writer
 
  It doesn’t take much for one to realize the 
Gainesville music scene is heavily submersed in 
punk rock.  
  From DIY basement shows to The Fest, it’s ev-
ident that Gators love their rock’n’roll fast and ag-
gressive. Much like the draw of UF, the Gainesville 
scene also attracts bands from across Florida and beyond.  
  Originally forming in Boca Raton in 2001, Pro-
tagonist is a ﬁ  ve-piece melodic punk band whose ties to Gainesville have never been stronger. This month the band put out its fourth release, a ﬁ  ve-song EP entitled “States” produced by Ste-phen Egerton of The Decendents. “States” was 
released on Gainesville-based label Paper + 
Plastick Records.  
  With a current lineup consisting of brothers 
Peter and John Marullo, Brian Forst, Marcus Kora and Kyle MacDougall, Protagonist is a true testa-ment to the successes of hardworking, dedicated musicians.  
  Emancipating a whirlwind of crazy fast riffs, 
pounding drum beats and anxious group cho-
ruses, “States” has proved once again that punk 
rock is deﬁ  nitely not dead.  Even though all the songs on “States” clock in at less than four min-utes, this duration shouldn’t fool you into thinking the EP isn’t worth your time.  
  The opening title track instantly blasts you into a cyclonic hypnosis as thick palm-muted gui-
tar progressions and accelerated rhythm are fun-
neled around strong, impacting vocal harmonies and shouts.    Never lacking in energy, “States” offers lis-
teners an abundance of adrenaline without sounding sloppy or overly pessimistic. Rather, the lyricism delivers insightful reﬂ  ections that will strike a chord with any twenty-something listener, 
heightened further by Peter Marullo’s exceptional 
vocal capabilities.
  Like a true protagonist, the band was faced 
with many conﬂ  icts while recording this EP.  Gui-tarist Brian Forst revealed that both the songwrit-ing processes and studio sessions were met with obstacles. He said the band members are now spread out around the country.
  “Writing processes have shifted to rely on vid-
eo chats, Garage Band ﬁ  les and lengthy emails,” Forst said. “We only played the songs on ‘States’ together about twice before going into the studio, so this one really came together during the re-cording process.”
  The band was also met with a most unfortu-
nate awakening the morning of their ﬁ  rst record-ing session — all of Protagonist’s equipment was stolen the night before they went into the studio.  
  “We got in our van, threw every piece of equip-
ment we owned in our trailer and made the long drive, getting to town and checking into a hotel the night before we were scheduled to record,” Forst explained. “In the morning when we head-ed to the van to drive to the studio we realized that our trailer was stolen. Needless to say, it was devastating.”
  Fortunately for the band and listeners alike, 
the recording of “States” was able to unfold, culminating in an EP that audibly engulfs these frustrations and reverts them into songwriting successes. 
Paris Visone / Alligator
Protagonist (L to R: John Marullo, Brian Forst, Peter Marullo, Marcus Kora, Kyle MacDougall) 
released their “States” EP on Paper + Plastick Records on May 10.
Spanish Gamble leave Gainesville conﬁ  nes for world tour 
  By KELLY RICHARD
 avenue writer
 
  Perhaps no band embodies the 
punk tradition in which Gainesville 
is steeped better than Spanish Gam-ble.
  But the locally based band left the 
sun-soaked conﬁ  nes of Gainesville in April to embark on an extensive European tour.
  The band, comprised of vocalist/
guitarist Colin Shane, bassist Ryan Weber, guitarist Randy Reddell and 
drummer James Perez, released a 
full-length album entitled “It’s All Coming Down” in February 2010 on Paper + Plastick Records.
  Weber said he met Paper + 
Plastick founder Vinnie Fiorello when Fiorello’s band, Less Than Jake, placed an order with Weber’s skate-board production company. While 
on tour, Weber called Fiorello and a 
domino effect led Spanish Gamble to eventually sign to Paper + Plastick.   While in Europe, the band has 
played with a variety of groups. One of their favorite shows was playing in Bristol, U.K., with Dead To Me, OK Pilot, The Arteries and others, where Spanish Gamble went crazy during Dead To Me’s performance.
  Reddell continued to say Span-
ish Gamble is treating the tour like a vacation. Although they don’t have 
much downtime with traveling and 
performing nearly every day, they try to meet and have drinks with locals after every show. 
  As a touring band, Weber said 
it’s a great feeling to know they have support all around the world.
  “To be over here in Europe and 
know our music took us here is un-believable,” Weber said.
  While overseas, Weber is also in 
the process of booking a 50-day U.S. tour any time he can get an Internet 
connection. That do-it-yourself ethic 
is what has always kept Spanish Gamble relevant.  When the band returns from Ger-
many, it will start a new stateside run of dates just two hours after touching down on the New York City tarmac.
  Even though touring life for a 
punk band can be difﬁ  cult, Spanish Gamble wouldn’t change anything for the world. Weber said they want to stay out on the road as much as possible 
  “Someday we want to tour Japan, 
that’s for sure!” 
Ben Brasch and Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffSummertime Bites
Local restaurants offer summer specials
Boca Fiesta
232 SE First St.
Exotic Mexican Cuisine
Meals around $10
Boca Fiesta meets the re-
quirements of a standard ta-
quería while running parallel to traditional Mexican cuisine in an eccentric fashion. They of-fer many gluten-free and vegan friendly options to their novel dishes. The restaurant also fea-tures live music some nights.
local music Gator Dawgs
1023 W. University Ave.
“Hot Dawgs” 
and Hamburgers
Meals from $2-$4
Gator Dawgs not only serves 
up “hot dawgs” and hamburg-
ers but also offers vegan op-tions for everything on the menu. You can grab any of the ridiculously themed dawgs and ﬁ  nd out how a hot dog should really be done.La Tienda
2204 SW 13th St.
Traditional Mexican 
Cuisine
Meals from $6-$9
La Tienda is a real 
Mexican restaurant, not a 
fusion taco joint, featur-ing full-ﬂ  edged Mexican favorites. With hearty por-tions and time-honored Mexican fare, you can’t go wrong no matter what you order. We recommend any of their stuffed burritos and trying the original Mexican sodas is a must.Tired of getting the same fast food every day? While everyone loves Chipotle and Wendy’s, we ﬁ  gured 
we’d give our readers a guide to some of Gainesville’s more obscure restaurants they can check out 
over summer break. Ranging from Mexican cuisine to good old American hot dogs, Gainesville’s got 
something for everyone to enjoy. 
Mi Apá Latin Café
114 SW 34th St.
Cuban Cuisine
Meals from $5-$8
Mi Apá serves authen-
tic Cuban food that in-
corporates traditional Latin ﬂ  avors infused with Miami- and Tampa-inﬂ  u-enced dishes. Switch up your breakfast routine and grab a traditional meat-ﬁ  lled arepa with a café con leche when Mi Apá opens at 7 a.m. Harvest Thyme Café 
2 W. University Ave.
Breakfast and Lunch
Meals from $4-$8
Harvest Thyme puts forward 
healthy alternative meal options for breakfast and lunch. Their meals boast to have all fresh and, whenever possible, locally grown products. Employee Kate-lyn Burkill said her favorite dish for the summertime is the Main Street Delight: a fresh fruit bowl with bananas, cantaloupes, grapes, watermelon and pine-apple mixed with a scoop of nutty raisin and chicken salad.Numbers are important.
In this technological age, 
where the Internet is the prime 
market for business dealings, compa-
nies obsess over the numbers their 
website draws. Websites can be made 
or broken by advertisers who want to promote products on websites with the highest hits and unique visitors every month.
In the social networking arena, the 
number of users a website has is the standard. Gainesville-based streaming service Grooveshark is no exception to 
that rule.Since its start in 2007, Groove -
shark has made a name for itself in 
digital music. Offering a preferable alternative to websites like Pandora, Grooveshark gives users more free -
dom in what music to listen to.
On May 9, Grooveshark registered 
its 10 millionth user. A lofty number to be sure, but behind the number is something more real and tangible.
Founders Sam Tarantino, Josh 
Greenberg and Andres Barreto, three former UF undergrads, might have dreamed of turning their project into a global presence four years ago, but pre -
dicting Grooveshark’s success around 
the globe would have been nearly im-
possible for those who watched the site grow.
Groove -
shark’s mile -
stone is not only an impor -
tant moment in the history 
of the com-
pany, which c e l e b r a t e d by streaming an in-office 
countdown live on Ustream, but an important day for a historic Gainesville music culture.
Gainesville’s punk and indie DIY 
scene is one that has been well-doc-umented by a lineage of prominent bands. Aside from spawning groups that have found success like Against Me!, Less Than Jake and Hot Water Music, Gainesville is currently home to two prominent indie labels in No Idea and Paper + Plastick Records.
Grooveshark is an example of a 
website that was built with a DIY men-tality, a strong work ethic and a knowl-edge of what music listeners want in a streaming service. Its global presence is another testament to the success of Gainesville’s breeding ground, and Tarantino, Greenberg and Barreto have earned every single one of the numbers their website leans on.
Although not as widely known as 
Pandora (which hit 50 million users in 2010), Grooveshark definitely of-fers the better product from a purely streaming perspective. Users can play any specific song or artist as much as they like as opposed to Pandora’s music genome that maps artists and songs together on radio stations.
From this music listener’s perspec-
tive, Grooveshark is the way to go. Not only would you be supporting a local business by signing up for an account with Grooveshark, you’d be getting an excellent product and would become part of an exciting chapter in the web-site’s story.
Because even though it has just 
reached new heights, Grooveshark is only going to go up from here.thursday, may 19, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
ff the RecordBy the numbers: Grooveshark’s success a testament to DIY ethic
Thomas Nassiff
Avenue Editor
Twitter: @ThomasNassiff
Grooveshark reaches milestone with 10 million users
By KELLY RICHARD
avenue writer
In September 2009, Grooveshark registered its one millionth 
unique user. 
A year later, the Gainesville-based music streaming website 
jumped to five million users. 
On May 9, people around the globe watched as Grooveshark 
climbed to its greatest heights yet via a Ustream countdown. At 
about 5 p.m. that day, the website had reached more than 10 mil-lion users. 
Founders Sam Tarantino, Josh Greenberg and Andres Barreto 
launched Grooveshark in 2007 as undergraduates at UF. The web-site is an on-demand music service, operating like a digital jukebox 
where users can search any song they feel like listening to and 
simply play it. Signing up for an account is free.
As proven by the numbers, the website is ex-
panding, and with greater success comes more 
recognition in the press. Time magazine named Grooveshark one of the 50 best websites of 2010. 
“The Time accolade was really awesome, 
and I think the big benefit of things in [larger 
publications] is that it gets the name out to a demographic that otherwise might not hear about it,” spokesman Ben Westermann-Clark said.Grooveshark’s main demographic lies in teenagers and college-
aged students in their early 20s. Another contributing aspect to Grooveshark’s big numbers is its presence outside the United States, specifically in Canada and South America.
“Most of these places aren’t offered any other legal music 
streaming service, so their only options are piracy and Groove -
shark,” Westermann-Clark said. “We’re happy to be able to give people the option not to steal music, even outside the U.S.”
Grooveshark isn’t done growing just yet. Westermann-Clark 
said the site plans to apply integration between artists and users, 
encouraging communication between the two.
In four years, Grooveshark has grown exponentially. A party for 
the 50-million milestone could be just around the corner.
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 3/3’s
ONLY $459
$49 Signing Fees
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409 ***
Ask about our Apple TV  special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1The Polos
Roommate Matching Available
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. $800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call Cindy 352-443-2016.    6-9-11-10-1
3/2,util inclded,w/d in unit,1st flr,2 bedrms 
avlbl,cats ok, large rms, common pool across courtyard, quite area, mostly families, 4 min to Oaks Mall bus service. Call 772-589-1870 to get pic or set up visit.  $450/mo  6-16-11-12-1
4/4 @$375 - CountrySide at UF
Utilities included, fully furnished w/private bed/bath & walk-in closet. All the amenities. Cindy 352-339-3763.    5-19-11-4-1GET THE BEST FOR LESS MONEY. 
SUMMER SUBLEASE AT THE ESTATES. 
1/1 IN A 4/4 FOR $399. CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
AND BUS STOPS AVAILABLE ARE THE 
20, 21, AND 22. NO APPLICATION FEE 
OR SUBLEASING FEE. EMAIL ME AT 
MELIMAR1103@YAHOO.COM OR YOU 
CAN CALL ME AT 786-624-0701.  5-19-3-1
GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR REDUCED 
RENT. Fully furnished or unfunished up-
graded 2 Bdrm apt w/ W/D Need mature, 
handy adult to occasionally show apts (other 
3 currently occupied) and do minor chores. 
Requires less than 4 hours/mo. Normally 
rents for $735/mo. Negotiable Sorry no pets. 
Call 727-423-9463.    6-9-11-9-1
4BR/4BA Countryside Apt furnished. Asking 
$375/mo. 2 brms avail. beg. 8/1. Rent inc. 
cable and wireless internet + util package for 
elec/water. Contact Chris at 941-726-2204 
or raginriv@ufl.edu w/ any questions.   5-31-
6-1
4br/4bath-$1400/month-All INCLUSIVE
Cable/Internet/Utilities($175 cap)Fully furnished-32" HDTV in Common room
Countryside Apartments- Available 8/1/11
954.682.8352 or maggator@ufl.edu  
6-2-6-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
3bedroom Starting @ $1019
Amazing townhome with everything included! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-2801   8-15-25-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
One Month FREE!
Move In by June 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
8-15-11-25-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 13
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
8-15-11-25-2AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2Courtney Greens
1/1 *$559 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
6-9-11-43-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     6-2-11-31-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1350 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39375-19-30-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1700
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
5-31-11-32-2
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com8-15-25-23bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    6-9-11-31-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     5-31-11-16-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    8-2-11-30-2
One & Two bedroom units for rent close to 
Campus! 1403 NW 6th Pl, 617 & 619 SW 10th Lane, 1123 SW 5th Ave, 924 SW 5th Ave, 1015 SW 9th Ave, 111 SE 16th Ave, 2905 & 2811 SW Archer Road 352-692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-8-2
Great Houses/Condos for rent near Campus 
2021 NW 7th St, 855 NW 20th St, 426 NW 25th St, 1810 NW 23rd Blvd, 505 NW 34th St, 1127 NW 16th Ave, 207 NW 36th Dr, 918 NW 3rd Ave, 2140 NW 7th Pl. 352-692-3800 rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-8-2
14, ALLIGATOR � THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011
4/2 great house 1 mile from UF. for rent 
beg. Aug. 1. Large fenced yard, tile floors, 
fireplace, new appliances. Small dog okay. 
Close to bus stop. 772-971-9723.   5-19-11-
5-2
Baxter House Near Campus 1013 SW 4th 
Ave. 4BR/2BA, custom designed, two story 
brick home, W/D, new H A/C, hardwood 
floors & walls. Much more $2,300/mo + util. 
275-1259 ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-11-
8-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UF
Wood Floors or Carpet $500/Mo  
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 
1216 SW 3rd Avenue 
GRAD II Apts
1BR & 2BR 1BA  1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. 1BR $500/Mo
2BR-$800/Mo  
1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry 
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos.
ROBERT OBRIEN APTS
1BR 1BA $400/Mo
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat
Gas Ht, Laundry on site2901 NW 14th St.
PICKWICK PARK
2BR 1 ½ BA Condo Carpet,
Central  H & Air, Dishwasher
Pool, Clubhouse etc.  $700/Mo4411 SW 34th Street #1005
3BR 1BA Home 3 BLKS to UF
Wood Floors, Central H & Air
Avail late August.  1012 SW 3rd Avenue$1200/Mo
2BR 1BA Duplex $600/Mo
New Carpet,  Window A/C
Nat Gas Ht.  6 BLKS to UF604 NW 13th Terrace
                                    5-26-11-3-2
1103 SW 6th Avenue Rear, 2-story brick, 1/2 
block to UF, 4BR + 2/3BA, remodeled open design, W/D, Disp, 2 A/C units, DW,MW parking, backyard, NPets, NS. Fall $2,100 + util. 275-1259, ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-11-8-2
Walk to Shands & UF.  On bus rte. Spacious 
& private 1BR cono w/tile flrs, lots of cabinets, walk-in closet, updated w/DW, disposal, W/D combo, small pet ok w/dep. Adequate park-ing $550/mo 352-371-9520 or 352-317-2642   5-19-11-5-2 
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.netClean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, stable, mature persons.●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, WDH, CHA, carpet. ●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 - $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our units are newly refurbished with all new ap-pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    8-15-11-25-2LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. 
rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded 
kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on 
direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-
14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1600/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
Mins to UF and Santa Fe., 3&4 BR/2BA 
home's, students or families. Fenced back 
yard. Avail August. Pets allowed! Personal 
owner, 3320,3321,3331 NW 30th Place,
284-5119, $975 & $1200    5-19-11-4-2
507 NW 39th Rd 1/1 $725-hardwood floors, 
porch, w/d, pets-Y!, no pet fees, walk in 
closets, fence, close to everything Newberry 
& 39th rd, Avil now. MUST SEE beautiful 
unit. 305-586-8255 smwhite14@yahoo.com  
6-9-11-9-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/
tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida 
room, private fenced backyard with patio, 
pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-1053  
6-16-11-12-2
3&4 bedroom homes avail in NW Gainesville. 
Mins to UF and Santa Fe. Ideal for students/
families. Pets Welcome! Avail Aug 5.
3331 NW 30th PL 3bed/2bath $975 
3321 NW 30th PL 4 bed/2 bath $1175 
Call Ricky for more info 352-284-5119    6-7-
11-8-2
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-11-13-2
3/2, 3514 nw 50th terr., culdesac, fireplace, 
garage, small dogs OK, $800, available now, 
Jim 375 1590   5-26-11-5-21 MONTH FREE ★ NO APPLICATION FEE
★ Apts Starting at $350 ★ Pets OK! ★
Call Today. 
Meadowcrest Apts. 352-378-3988
meadowcrest@wbsproperties.com
6-14-11-10-2
1/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or 
quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth 
call: 352 377-2150    6-16-11-10-2
1/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook -
ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2
Charming 2br 1 BA Cottage Blocks from UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry 
with w/d, large private screened porch. No 
Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $900/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836  
6-16-11-10-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA 2816 W Univ Ave 1 mi to UF. 
Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. Avail now.
$1500/mo summer, $1600/mo fall NEG.327-2931, 376-6183              6-16-11-10-2
The Landings
2/2.5 Townhome
ONLY $940
Includes Internet & Cable
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-21-2
Sublease near UF Sorority Row. Beautiful 
new studio, granite counters, slate shower, w/d. Partially furnished. Available 5/1 through 
7/30/11. $699/month Call: Al Raymond 
(352)494-1805 or email: raydad1@msn.com    
5-24-11-5-3
FURNISHED 2/2.5 Townhome Walking dis-
tance from UF!! Taylor Square is located behind Norman Hall on SW 10th Street. Available for Sublease Summer A/C or B! Bring your own roommate or live alone! Guaranteed Parking! $450/per person, OBO!! Email for details: brihuck@gmail.com.   5-19-11-4-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-501-3485    5-31-11-33-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   5-31-20-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412    6-2-10-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from 
Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. 
$325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837                                 5-24-11-5-4
Room 4 rent in Lg, nice 3br home
in nw, 3 mi from campus, amenities,prefer law/med/grad student. 400/mo1/3 util. 352-256-0456    5-24-11-4-4FREE RENT - Room provided for right per-
son. Quiet, serious, mature student needed 
to help elderly, visually-impaired man. 
Housework & shopping.  Must like dogs. Bike 
to Santa Fe. 352-472-7030    5-19-11-2-4
ROOMMATES WANTED! 2 student girl 
roommates looking for 1-2 roommates to 
share 4 bed/2 bath home. W/D,kitchen/din-
ing/living/family rooms, side patio, fenced in 
yard $500/month everything included. Great 
location within 5 miles of campus!
Call Megan, (386)441-8208.    6-7-7-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
Perfect 2/2 Townhouse 3.5 miles UF 
$135,500. Master bdrm upstairs. New A/C, 
kitchen appliances, siding, and much more. 
Pictures, ect at Realtor.com MLS #319897. 
352-376-9756    6-16-11-9-5
LAKEFRONT HORSE FARM 5-Bedroom 
Home, 3-Stall Barn, Large Workshop, Garage, Scenic Lake Frontage, Dock, Pier. 
Price reduced $799,000. Owner Financing. 
Lake Tillery, East of Charlotte, NC. Iron 
Horse Properties. (800)997-2248.
www.ironhorseproperties.net    5-19-1-5
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 15
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
Cash For Electronics Working or not! Lap
tops,iPods,Smarphones,iPhones,Gaming 
Systems and More! We Do repairs Too
We are located by the Beef `O` Brady`s on 
Archer RD Techmodo 352-872-5881
6450 SW Archer Rd
5-26-10-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
8-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 Eagle Talon $1499
89 Ford Bronco II $1299
94 Ford Taurus $1299  
01 Mits Montero $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $1999
98 Ford F250 $2500
96 BMW 318TI $3999 
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
99 Ford F150 $3999  
02 Chevy Blazer $4999  
01 Chevy Silverado $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit checks
Move vehicle $500 & up!
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 Ford Taurus $5999  
02 Chevy Camero $6999  
03 GMC Sonoma $6999
05 Chevy Monte Carlo $6999
352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
02 Nissan Xterra $899905 Chevy Trailblazer $9999
05 Toyota Camry $10,999  
352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
CASH for your vehicle today!
All models older and newer
Call Gary at 682-8838              5-24-11-5-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  8-15-25-13
St. Francis House is a
homeless shelter and soup kitchen located 
in downtown Gainesville and
we are looking for help from
volunteers like you. St. Francis House is in 
need of donations such as razors, body  
wash, soap and toothbrushes.
If you are interested in helping
please contact:
Jared Salter at (352) 378-9079
or by email at:
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.ART AUCTION TO BENEFIT CHILDREN'S 
CHARITY - NO BUYER'S PREMIUM! Several 
artworks with no reserve and some start be-
low $100! Chagall, Picasso, Dali, Miro, Max, 
Matisse, Pino, Maimon, Agam, Gockel and 
more! FREE food, drinks and raffle prizes 
BATERBYS ART AUCTION GALLERY- 
ORLANDO, Saturday, May 21 - 4pm 
Preview, 5pm Auction - 9101 International 
Dr., Unit 1008, Orlando, FL 32819. RSVP 
at www.baterbys.com or call (866)537-1004 or email springauction2011@baterbys.com 
AB#2746 AU#3750    5-19-1-10
SAWMILLS - Band/Chainsaw - SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. 
MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock 
ready to ship. Starting at $995.00 www.
NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N    5-19-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-
25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-11-25-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
5-31-11-79-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
5-19-11-74-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
5-31-72-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonalrecreation and aquatics positionsCompetitive pay in great workenvironment! Apply online todayat www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-11-30-14
TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS
We are a traditional summer camp in West Virginia. We are looking for both male and female counselors. Visit www.trcamps.com or call 410-833-4080 for more information.  5-24-11-14-14
ATTN SMOKERS!!!!
Need participants for study assessing the
effects of various activities on smoking. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com
5-31-13-14FT prof NANNY needed NOW $13/hr;
3 kids under 5;M-F 48hrs;+OT/ wkds; grads
welcomed; refs/bkkg ch; billing. Span/Eng;
long term; Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail
resume, pix, to gnv@nanoneone.com   5-24-
11-10-14
PT NANNY needed: 2 jobs avail for pms:
15 hrs/wk; var sched; 2 kids; $11/HR
start SUMMER & cont. thru Fall/Spring;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    5-24-
11-9-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St    5-24-11-8-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SUMMER AND FALL 2011
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
5-19-11-7-14
Looking for musician that can play African 
Methodist hymns for church. Starting $200/
week in Lake City. Call the pastor at 352-
209-8386 or Greg at 386-344-2449    5-19-
11-5-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. Excellent
Benefits. Please email resume to
ahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.
www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14
Female sitter/tutor/driver for 9 & 13 yr old, 
May 2 to Jun 7 & Aug 22 to Jun 6 MTWF 
3:15p to 7:00p. Some later hrs during week & 
Sunday hrs. Strong math skills required. 20-
mile commute. Call 352-332-6465.    5-19-
11-4-14
F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, 
salary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.   6-2-11-8-14
SUMMER WORK
GREAT PAY, $14.50 base/appt 
PT/FT openings avail. 
Customer Sales/Service, 
Will train, conditions apply 
all ages 17+ CALL NOW 
(352) 505-9241
6-2-11-8-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617    8-15-11-25-14
child sitter and math tutor wanted for the 
summer for 2 boysminimal transportation, Must have experience and good drivingrecord   Call 386-365-5313       5-24-11-5-14
Math and science tutor wanted for high 
school kidsmust be enrolled in math or science/engi-neering as undergrad/grad student. Call 386-365-5313             5-24-11-5-14
P/T IT person. Competent to establish re-
mote access through cisco-like systems. Provide resume and salary request topaulsrothstein@gmail.com   5-19-11-4-14Need ASAP, 30 Fast Typists (65+wpm)
for transcription positions. Production based
pay ranging $7-$13 hourly. Create your
own schedule, must be able to maintain
minimum of 16 hours per week, M-F 7am-
midnight. Easy walk/bike from campus to
office. Ideal for students & those seeking PT
work. This is NOT a summer only position.
Email with interest to: gnvjobs@uigfla.com
5-24-11-5-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly work
Flexible schedules
$8 an hour to start
Apply online at RGIS.COM     5-24-11-5-14
Software Programmer wanted for growing 
software company in Gainesville.
Both entry and senior level full time
positions for work on desktop application.
Programming experience required;
familiarity with VB.NET and 
SQL Server a plus. Resumes to
employment@elitesoftware.com.
5-19-11-4-14
Exp. PRESSURE WASHING person w/ truck 
to pull trailer, pc, internet, cell; flexible hrs, 
part or full-time 'as needed', good pay. Only 
serious/dependable candidates, please. 352-
870-6017 / shaneman@symo.com    6-16-11-
12-14
MULCHING, PRUNING & MOWING
Daytime assistance needed for gardening. 
Flexible hours. $12/hr. Located north of Hwy 
Patrol Station. Email resume to:
jaythaw@bellsouth.net     5-19-11-3-14
HTML Programmer (Part Time)
This part-time, entry level position primar-
ily involves working on websites and online 
publications for our clients using HTML, CSS 
and basic image manipulation. We code web-
sites by hand (no visual website generators such as Frontpage), so at least entry level 
to intermediate HTML and CSS skills are re-
quired. Graphic design and layout skills may 
be helpful, but are not necessary since most 
of the work involves adding content to exist-
ing websites. About 20 hours per week with 
flexible scheduling. The position does have the potential for long term growth into other 
positions within our company.
www.oandp.com/careers    5-31-11-6-14
BARN HELP
EXPERIENCE A MUST. In exchange for les-
sons or boarding; or will pay the right person.  Hunter/Jumper facility. 352-359-4149    6-2-11-5-14
Veterinary Receptionist
Part-time position, experience
preferred, some weekends. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145
W.Newberry Rd, Newberry, FL 32669.
5-26-11-5-14● LINUX ADMINISTRATORS
● SALES CONSULTANTS
● ADMIN ASST
● 3D AUTOCAD ASST
● MARKETING ASST
● SHIPPING TECH
Full and part time positions
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.    5-26-
11-4-14
CONSTRUCTION ASSISTANT
Full or part time. Responsibilities - AutoCAD, 
SketchUp. Assist with planning and drawings 
of various projects. Please apply at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.    5-26-
11-4-14
FARAHS ON THE AVENUE
Now hiring SERVERS & PREP COOK.
Apply weekdays after 5pm. No calls.1120 West University Ave.    5-26-4-14
LaFiesta Restaurant
Now hiring hostesses, servers, cooks & dish-
washers. Apply after 2pm 7038 NW 10th Pl    6-9-11-8-14
MARKETING POSITION – PT PERSON 
M-F DAILY – 20-30 HOURS WEEKLY – 
STARTING $8.00 HOURLY BASED ON EXPERIENCE. MUST BE DEPENDABLE AND HAVE EXCELLENT COMMUNICATION 
SKILLS. MUST BE PROFICIENT IN EXCEL 
AND WORD. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS.  
EMAIL:WELLS@RIDGWAYTRUSS.COM    5-31-11-5-14AUTOCAD – PT PERSON M-F DAILY 
– 30-50 HOURS WEEKLY- STARTING 
$9.00 HOURLY BASED ON EXPERIENCE.  
MUST BE DEPENDABLE AND GOOD 
KNOWLEDGE OF BASIC AUTOCAD.  1 
MILE FROM CAMPUS.  EMAIL: WELLS@
RIDGWAYTRUSS.COM    5-31-11-5-14
The Great Outdoors Restaurant
High Springs
Now hiring energetic servers.
Must have experience. Send resume to
kbentz@greatoutdoorsdining.com    5-24-
11-3-14
Clean Touch Group of Gainesville, Fl is 
looking for a well-rounded Sales Consultant 
to help our team. We are a commercial 
cleaning company who needs advice with 
expanding, creating sales strategies, and 
establishing new business relationships. Pay 
is negotiable and hours will vary. To be con-
sidered for the posotion, you must have an 
educational background in sales or compa-
rable experience. Please send your resume 
to cleantouch@cleantouchcompany.com   
5-24-11-3-14
Going to be in G'ville during break? One seri-
ous hardworking and trustworthy UF student. 
Gen or const labor, exp w/electrical & plumb-
ing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy lifting. PT 
flex hrs. $7-7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183
5-19-11-2-14
YARD WORKCLOSE TO CAMPUS
3 to 4 hours weekly. $15/hr. 352-376-8396    5-24-11-2-14
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 17
Extended Day
Enrichment Program
Is Hiring Now for Jobs
starting August 15, 2011
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTY
AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM -VARIOUS LOCATIONS-●ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH OUTDOOR GAMES - $10/hr - BA desired or 
successful exp. working w/ children.
●CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS & CRAFTS - $10/hr - BA desired or successful exp. working w/ children.
●Girl Scout Leaders, Tennis Instructors, 
Dance Instructors & 4-H Leaders
Hours required - M,T,Th,F - 1:45-5:30, Wed - 12:30-5:30 PMDRUG TESTING REQUIRED-
BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED-
AA/EOE
For More Information Call: 352-955-7766Apply online www.sbac.edu5-26-11-3-14
NEED A COMPUTER PROGRAMMER
TO DEVELOP WEBSITE & ONLINE GAME.
Will pay reasonable fee. Email
annettetlyons@yahoo.com   5-24-11-2-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse. Apply 
from 2:30 to 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please   6-2-11-5-14
ACT NOW! New Pay Increase! 37-46 cpm. 
New Trucks in 2011. Need 2 months CDL-A 
Driving Exp. (877)258-8782 www.melt-
ontruck.com    5-19-1-14Driver- Recession Proof Refrigerated Freight. 
Plenty of miles. Need refresher? Free tuition 
at FFE. $1000 Sign-on. Pet & Rider policy. 
CO & O/O's. recruit@ffex.net. (855)356-
7121.    5-19-1-14
Drivers-CDL A Drivers. TEAM & SOLO 
drivers needed for Dry Van & Tanker posi-
tions. 1 year OTR experience required. Call 
(877)882-6537 Now! www.oakleytransport.
com   5-19-1-14
CDL Drivers - Great Pay! Tons of Texas 
Frac work! Great company! Company paid 
benefits! Must have bulk pneumatic trailer 
experience. Call today! (800)491-9029.   
5-19-1-14
Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL 
NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Susan ext. 227 
Joy ext. 238 SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC   
5-19-1-14
Drivers- No Experience- No Problem. 100% 
Paid CDL Training. Immediate Benefits. 
20/10 program. Trainers Earn up to 49¢ per 
mile! CRST VAN EXPEDITED (800)326-
2778 www.JoinCRST.com   5-19-1-14
Drivers - CDL-A GREAT HOME TIME! 
START UP TO 43¢ PER MILE SIGN-ON BONUS!! Lease purchase available. Experience Req’d. (800)441-4271 X FL-100 HornadyTransportation.com   5-19-1-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
SERVICE DOGS
Newberry. Autism, PTSD, Companion Dogs. 
Volunteers needed. Non-profit. Puppy-raisers. 330-329-8834 chriswriterbuerki@gmail.com5-24-10-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15★★★Advanced Cleaning & Janitorial★★★
30 years exp. ● Prompt ● Dependable
Detailed cleaning at low rates. Call thepeople who really do care. 352-682-0800     AdvancedCleaningGainesville.com  
5-24-11-5-15
Med School Entrance Consulting
Resident Physician offering 
advice for PreMed Students!
Call: 248-762-0712
Email:gatormedconsulting@gmail.com    
6-14-10-15
Gator Slide Farm horse boarding, $350/mo., 
day stalled, night turned out.  Barns chores 
done credited against board bill.  Dressage, 
x-country, stadium. Student recommended. 
352-466-3538, gtrslfrm@aol.com
5-31-11-6-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. 
Wentworth. (866)494-9115. Rated A+ by the 
Better Business Bureau.    5-19-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? 
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low 
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! 
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.
com    5-19-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA 
approved program. Financial aid if qualified - 
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance (866)314-3769.    5-19-1-15
Medical Management Careers start here-
Get connected online. Attend college on your own time. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.
com    5-19-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904    5-19-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
PRIMARY MEDICAL CARE
accept medicare, medicaid, all private insur-ers, sliding scale fee for uninsuredcall 352 275 8171   5-19-11-5-16●Gluten Intolerance Group Of Gainesville ●
Learn and Share     FIRST MEETING:
Wed, May 25, 6-8 PM Gainesville Health & 
Fitness, Newberry Rd. location.
Contact Janet Frank at 352-215-1078 
GIGgainesville@gmail.com     5-24-2-16
PREGNANT? CONSIDERING ADOPTION? 
A childless energetic, spiritual, committed couple seeks to adopt. Financially secure. 
Healthcare professionals. Expenses paid. 
Gil & Dave (888)580-ADOPT (2367). FL 
Bar#0150789    5-19-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
8-15-11-25-18
LOCAL IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, H1B's, Employment 
Green Cards, & Natz
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
6-28-10-18
WANTED: Wealthy gentleman, 60+ for 62 
year-young, educated, dedicated nurse for possible long-term relationship. Call 941-268-6243    5-24-11-2-19
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-11-25-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  Monday-Thursday, May 23-26 from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions on M & W, Math on T & R. Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.   5-19-3-20
Get Your Ad Noticed Here and in Over 100 
Papers throughout Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! (866)742-1373www.florida-classifieds.com.    5-19-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.    5-31-11-7-21
Sports
THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF TRACK AND FIELD TEAM BACK ON TOP ONLINEBy BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
A year ago, Cheyenne Coyle, 
Kasey Fagan and Hannah Rogers 
were rivals.
Since Rogers and Fagan were 12-years-old, they’ve competed against one another.  Coyle’s 
travel team, the Orange County Batbusters, was eliminated from nationals by Team North Florida —  a squad led by Fagan and her 
younger sister, 2011 UF commit Sami Fagan.
“Once we met each other, we 
were like, ‘I didn’t really like you 
when we were playing against each other,’” the Gators third baseman said. “But we’re friends now.”
The freshmen trio are room-mates and have banded together to 
help lead Florida to a No. 4 seed in 
the NCAA Tournament, which be-gins Friday in Gainesville.
Rogers ended the regular sea-
son leading the Southeastern Con-
ference in wins. Coyle carries a .313 
batting average with 13 home runs, and Fagan has committed fewer er -
rors than any other non-catcher in the Gators infield.
But their first collegiate post-
season will be magnified by both uncharted territory and circum-stance.
With the most successful senior 
class in UF softball history on its 
way out, this postseason is the last 
chance for the seniors to claim a na-tional title after three failed trips to the Women’s College World Series.
Coach Tim Walton said the 
freshmen will be vital to reaching the team’s goal.
“One plays short, one plays 
third, one pitches —  and is going 
to pitch a lot,” he said. “If we’re go-
ing to have a chance to win games, they better play to another level, 
and they better play with the con-
fidence they’ve played with the whole year long.”
Florida’s reliance on its three 
freshman starters could become 
even more necessary if its upper -
classmen continue to struggle.
In the past seven games, UF’s se-
niors Kelsey Bruder, Megan Bush, 
Tiffany DeFelice and Aja Paculba  
have hit a combined .231 with nine 
RBIs, 12 strikeouts and two home runs —  not ideal considering three of the four flirted with or hit above .400 all season. In comparison, the 
seniors batted .315 with 26 RBIs 
and 12 home runs in the seven games before the aforementioned 
stretch.
“They’re going to come back 
soon,” Rogers said of the seniors. 
“They fight.”
Meanwhile, Coyle and Fagan 
have combined to bat .297 with seven RBIs and three homers (all from Coyle) during the past seven games. Included is Coyle’s walk-
off blast in Florida’s May 6 come-
from-behind win over Tennessee, which helped keep the Gators’ SEC East hopes alive.
In the circle, Rogers will be as 
important as ever. Senior right-
hander Stephanie Brombacher has yet to pitch a complete game since 
returning from a bicep injury on 
April 16.
Harrison Diamond / Alligator
Gators freshman pitcher Hannah Rogers led the Southeastern Conference in wins. Rogers, Cheyenne 
Coyle and Kasey Fagan were rivals a year ago, but the three teamed up to lead UF to a conference title. 
Freshmen trio looks to lead UF in NCAA Regionals
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
mwatts@alligator.org
 
When the Florida women’s golf team 
completed its first round at the NCAA 
Championship on Wednesday, there were still more than 12 teams on the course. 
As players sought out lunch, it was 
unclear how the No. 19 Gators’ 6-over round of 294 would stack up against the competition. But at the end of the day, UF sits in fifth place, trailing four teams ranked in the top 10. 
Coach Jan Dowling said she was 
pleased with her team’s result in round one, as the Gators didn’t record a score higher than bogey. 
“That’s a testament to the way they played,” Dowling said. “If they missed [a green] they took their medicine and were obviously making some smart decisions out there.”
Leading up to the tournament, Dowl-
ing said she emphasized a conservative approach on the difficult Traditions Golf 
Course in Bryan, Texas. Designed by Jack Nick-laus, the course punishes missed shots and makes scoring difficult. 
“[A conservative ap-
proach] will actually give 
you more opportunities for birdies than if you were pin-seeking on every hole,” 
Dowling said. “It’s very penal to be miss-
ing on the short side of greens on this golf Gators off to solid startBack-end boys key, with caveat
The Philadelphia Phillies sport R2C2. 
The Miami Heat roll with Three 6 Mafia. The No. 6 Gators baseball 
team has Lou Pearlman and his throng of boy bands. 
Florida’s Kevin O’Sullivan manages a 
bullpen full of commanding dudes who 
flat-out bring it. But as the Gators waltz 
toward the postseason with a pivotal con-ference-deciding series versus Kentucky starting tonight, they need to hope their band of hotshots even has a chance to rock 
the house. 
On a nightly basis, it’s been UF’s pen — 
not the heralded starting pitching — that’s 
propelled Florida to an opportunity to cap-
ture the Southeastern Conference regular 
season title for the second straight year. 
While Pearlman’s Backstreet Boys, ‘N 
Sync and even O-Town made girls buckle at the knees, Steven “Paco” Rodriguez, Nick 
Maronde, Austin Maddox and Greg Lar -
son steadily hurl Chet Steadman’s stinky-cheese. 
When Sully 
makes “The Call,” chances are, the 
game is over. 
“Our bullpen 
is our strength,” 
O’Sullivan said. 
“Those guys have really pitched well 
here the last month.”
Florida’s imposing group of relievers in-
cludes a pair of Jekyll and Hydes, but it’s spearheaded by two filthy lefties and two hosses from the right. 
No one in the law firm Rodriguez, Lar -
son, Maronde and Maddox has an ERA over 1.80. 
Southpaws Rodriguez and Maronde 
have been effectively wild this season, and the duo has been dominant since confer -
Jesse Simonton
Simon Says
jsimonton@alligator.orgSee SOFTBALL, p AGe 20
See JeSSe, p AGe 20See GOLF, p AGe 20
POLL QUESTION
n Of the five accomplished senior softball players, 
who was your favorite during her four-year career as 
a Gator?n Florida’s men’s track and field team reclaimed the 
nation’s No. 1 spot Wednesday according to the U.S. Track and Field and Cross Country Coaches Associa -
tion. The Gators women’s team was also ranked for the first time this season, coming in at No. 23. n Be sure to check out alligatorSports.org this week -
end for NCAA Tournament updates on Gators softball, men’s and women’s tennis, lacrosse and men’s and women’s golf. Also, be sure to catch our coverage of UF baseball’s season-ending series against Kentucky. Golf“If we’re going to have a 
chance to win games, they 
better play with the confi -
dence they’ve played with 
the whole year long.”
Tim Walton
UF Head Coach By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
  After scoring Florida’s ﬁ  rst NCAA Tournament victory 
in a 13-11 win over Stanford last weekend, the No.4-seeded 
Gators (16-3, 5-0 American Lacrosse Conference) advanced to 
host No. 5-seed Duke (14-4, 4-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) in 
the second round Saturday at 3 p.m. in Dizney Stadium.
  Can the Gators take anything away from their pre-
season matchup? The two teams squared off in an exhi-bition before the season started, and reportedly, the Blue Devils got the better of Florida. “It gives us a good refer-ence on to what’s coming to us,” goalie Mikey Meagher said. “We didn’t play our best against them the ﬁ  rst time around, so we now know how to adjust and what need-
ed to be adjusted to get a win against this team.” Duke 
comes into the matchup off of a rugged regular season  including four wins over top-10 teams.
  How will UF’s young midﬁ  eld matchup with a se-
nior-laden Duke attack? After trudging through an in-jury-prone season, the Blue Devils are getting back into form at the right time. Senior Emma Hamm (46 goals, 24 assists) is a Tewaaraton ﬁ  nalist who missed all of 2010 with an ACL tear, while fellow midﬁ  elder Kat Thomas 
rebounded from a sprained ankle to score four goals in 
Duke’s 12-9 ﬁ  rst round win against Penn. “They have a lot of seniors where it could be their last game in all of college, so I feel like they’re going to come out strong,” UF midﬁ  elder Janine Hillier said. 
 Will Meagher stay solid in goal against another top 
10 offense? With the nation’s seventh-best draw control average, the Blue Devils will look to get extra posses-sions against a Gators team which has lost the overall 
face-off battle in ﬁ  ve of their last six games. Meagher has 
been stellar in goal recently , including 11 saves against the Cardinal’s second-ranked offense. The sophomore will face an equally daunting task against Duke’s attack which scores 14.28 goals per game — good for seventh 
in the nation.THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
WHAT TO WATCH
 Max Reed / Alligator Staff
   UF goalie Mikey Meagher will be under constant pressure Satur-
day if the Gators can’t overcome their draw-control struggles.
 Maria Linares / Alligator
  The Gators will rely on freshmen like Alex Cercone 
this weekend in  NCAA Championships. 
Three things to look for this weekend from Gators lacrosse, tennis and golf
 By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
T  he No. 2 overall women’s tennis team swept its NCAA 
Regional and also travels to Palo Alto for the Round of 16. 
The Gators take on Clemson on Friday at 3 p.m.
  Will UF’s freshmen continue to ﬂ  ourish? Florida’s 
young and talented trio of Soﬁ  e Oyen, Alex Cercone 
and Olivia Janowicz have dominated opponents all sea-son. They were strong during the SEC Tournament but 
weren’t needed very much in the NCAA Regional. If the 
Gators are to reach their goal of a rematch with Stanford, the freshmen will have to maintain their solid play. 
  Can Florida resist looking ahead? Coach Roland 
Thornqvist has kept his team focused on beating less tal-ented squads all year. The Gators already blasted Clem-son 4-0 in the ITA Indoor Championships this season. But Florida must avoid being distracted by a potential rematch with Stanford in the ﬁ  nal. “If you have a team 
that is used to winning or playing for championships, 
you’re at an advantage because they won’t be in awe,” Thornqvist said. “I’m anticipating that they’ll keep their eye on the ball, take care of the little things, focus on 
nothing but our immediate and ﬁ  rst challenge on Fri-
day.”
  Can the Gators extend their doubles dominance?
Florida has rolled in doubles, winning the point in 17 straight matches. The Gators have dropped one match all 
season: Losing to Stanford in the ITA Indoor Champion-
ships ﬁ  nal. Clemson features the nation’s sixth-ranked pairing of Keri Wong and Josipa Bek, so Florida’s No. 2 duo of Allie Will and Cercone will face another tough 
challenge.  By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
  After winning its regional and advancing to the 
NCAA Tournament Round of 16, the UF’s men’s ten-
nis team will play conference rival Kentucky today at 3 p.m. in Palo Alto, Calif., at Stanford University.
  Will the Gators maintain their momentum? Flor-
ida went on a magniﬁ  cent run to win the Southeast-ern Conference Tournament, winning four matches 
in as many days. But the team wasn’t particularly 
tested in the NCAA Regional and will have to get the ball rolling early to make a deep run this weekend.
  Will the rematch beneﬁ  t or burden the Gators?
This will be the third time Florida and Kentucky have faced off this year. During the regular season, 
the Wildcats came away with a tight win on Flori-
da’s home courts, but UF exacted revenge in the SEC Tournament ﬁ  nal. “We know Kentucky extremely 
well,” coach Andy Jackson said. “They beat us on our 
home court earlier in the year, and then we played a very, very close match about three weeks ago.”
 Can Alexandre Lacroix keep carrying this team?
Lacroix hasn’t lost a singles match in more than a 
month, and he took over the top spot on UF’s all-time 
career wins list last weekend. If the Gators are going to have any shot at advancing, the senior will have to 
continue his strong play from the SEC Tournament 
and NCAA Regionals.
 By MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
  After a stellar spring season capped by a Southeastern Confer-
ence Championship, the No. 1-seed Florida men’s golf team hosts an 
NCAA Regional starting today in Ocala at 8 a.m. 
  Can senior Andres Echavarria continue to play well?
Echavarria took medalist honors at the Gator Invitational and 
the SEC Championship, leading Florida to tournament victo-
ries in each. When he plays well, Florida usually follows suit. 
But the senior had to make an emergency room visit last week due to food poison-
ing, and his health may be a factor over the weekend.
  How will the Gators respond to a lay-
off of more than a month? Florida won the SEC Championship on April 17, giving them plenty of time to prepare for region-als. But the time off hasn’t gone smoothly. 
Aside from Echavarria’s illness, sophomore Tyler McCumber broke his ﬁ  nger recently and his status for the regional is in doubt. “I’m a little nervous about this month off in that things have not gone necessarily in our way,” coach Buddy Alexan-
der said.
 Can Florida take advantage of the course? The regional 
will be held at Golden Ocala Golf Course, a track familiar to 
the Gators. Less than an hour from Gainesville, Alexander said the team has plenty of  experience on the course and usu-ally plays it well. UF must use that to its advantage this week-end in order to advance to the championship. “It’s been a bad month, to be honest,” Alexander said. “I just hope we’re ready to play.”Echavarria
“We know Kentucky extremely well.”
Andy Jackson
 head coachLACROSSEMEN’S TENNIS
WOMEN’S TENNISMEN’S GOLF20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MAY 19, 2011
Harrison Diamond / Alligator
UF junior Andrea Watts found the green more times than not 
Wednesday, stringing together 18 straight pars to shoot 72 (E). 
Dowling impressed with team’s approach
course.”
Junior Andrea Watts must have 
been paying attention. She carded an 
even-par 72 on Wednesday with an as-tonishing 18 straight pars.  
“That’s pretty impressive isn’t it,” 
Dowling said. “We were kind of laugh-ing. That’s not something that happens 
very often.”
Dowling said Watts’ ball-striking 
consistently kept her ball in the fair -
way and on the green in regulation. 
But it was her lack of a three-putt that helped keep the round together, the 
coach said.
Playing out of the No. 1 spot in the 
rotation, sophomore Mia Piccio also 
fired an even-par 72. Piccio made the turn at 1-over and bogeyed her 10th hole before making two birdies to pull back to even.  
Starting at the par-5 10th, sopho-
more Isabelle Lendl began her round 
with a birdie, but it would be her only 
red number on the day. She added three bogeys on the back nine to shoot a 2-over 74. 
Junior Evan Jensen had 14 pars 
and four bogeys on the day, carding a 4-over 76. The team’s only senior Jes-sica Yadloczky, whose round didn’t count toward the team total Wednes-
day, struggled to a 9-over 81. 
Wind gusts blew at 20 mph con-
stantly from the start of the round, 
Dowling said, but she also added that her team didn’t seem to be fazed. 
“We knew that was going to hap-
pen and we prepared for it,” the coach said. “Hopefully that hard work that they’ve put in is going to continue to pay off the next few days.”GOLF , from page 18
Florida hosts Bethune-Cookman on Friday
Since coming back, Brombacher has worked 39 in-
nings, giving up 11 earned runs and striking out 20. 
During the same time, her more power-oriented fresh-man sidekick has thrown 59 innings, also surrendering 11 earned runs but notching 47 punch-outs. 
“Hannah comes in there and she’s blowing it by peo-
ple,” Fagan said. “So I think that’s hard to catch up to after you’ve seen Steph.”
Coyle grew up cheering for her hometown UCLA Bruins -— one of the three teams in Gainesville this 
weekend for the UF Regional -—  and the Arizona Wild-
cats, where her brother played baseball,  in the NCAA 
Tournament. Fagan remembers watch-ing Ali Gardiner’s walk-off shot against Alabama that sent UF to the 2009 national championship series.
Starting this Friday at 6 p.m. against 
Bethune-Cookman, they’ll each have a chance to make their own lasting postsea-
son memories.SOFTBALL , from page 18ence play began. 
“Paco” struggled before SECs, but the sophomore left-
hander has allowed just a single earned run in 10 conference 
appearances.  Maronde hasn’t conceded a run since April 8, 
and the junior has been a punch-out machine, striking out 13 in his last 10.1 innings. 
In just his first collegiate season towing the rubber, Maddox 
has assumed the role of unendorsed closer. The burly right-hander sports a minuscule 0.89 ERA, allowing just two earned runs all year. 
Larson is the most ho-hum dude in the group, as the 6-foot-
8 righty quietly just gets people out.  On Sunday, UF’s band 
of brothers tossed 5.2 scoreless innings in UF’s series-clinching 
victory over Vanderbilt.
But like Charlie Sheen, the quartet is only valuable if the 
team is close to winning. Recently, the Gators have been faced with an untimely issue as they move toward the postseason: Can Florida get enough out of its starters to even get to the meat of the pen? 
Although Hudson Randall has been a stable arm for the 
Gators, lately, UF doesn’t know what’s its going to get from its 
other “Two and a Half Men.” 
Junior Alex “Panda” Panteliodis and sophomore Brian 
Johnson have been inconsistent over the past month, while 
freshman Karsten Whitson has possibly plateaued this year.
For the two southpaws, O-Town’s “All or Nothing” could 
be the theme song for the past four weeks.  
Florida’s Panda bear tossed two solid starts against in-state 
rivals, but those appearances were sandwiched between three outings where the left-hander was absolutely rocked. 
Johnson was ballin’ during non-conference play, but in 
nine SEC starts, the lefty has pitched fewer than six innings six times. After making Ole Miss look silly on April 30 (6.2 innings, zero runs and nine strikeouts), Johnson has pitched twice and 
been knocked around for 11 earned runs. 
Whitson’s situation is a little different. The freshman has 
pitched well the entire year, progressively transforming from a thrower to a pitcher. But the flame throwing righty has failed 
to work into the sixth inning in his last two starts after finally hurdling that barrier three weeks ago. 
For the trio, the two steps forward, three steps back routine 
has handcuffed O’Sullivan with how he has to manage his bull-
pen. 
The Gators have an outstanding ball club infused with great 
pitching and balanced hitting. But if they’re going to accom-
plish their goal of winning the SEC and going back to Omaha, 
their starting pitching needs to find their old form, so the back-
end boys can even be used.
 If not, it’ll be their opponents — instead of Maddox & Co. 
— waving “Bye Bye Bye” as the season ends.JESSE , from page 18
Softball