VOLUME 106 ISSUE 62 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
An inside look at SG voting
The Alligator explores how elections are conducted 
at UF and other state universities, pg. 4. Editorial: What happened to accountability in SG?
Senate should have impeached supervisor of elections, pg 6.  
Wenger out for Furman game Saturday
Offensive lineman Dan Wenger has an ankle injury, pg 17. 78/52Check out 
today’s Avenue 
for a rundown of 
Drake’s sopho-
more album, 
“Take Care.” See 
story, page 10. 
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17 Haley Stracher / Alligator
  People protest in front of Tigert Hall on Wednesday afternoon as part of a protest organized by Graduate 
Assistants United against increasing student fees. 
  ERIN JESTER
 Alligator Writer
  Waving colorful signs and 
chanting “stand up, ﬁ  ght back,” 
UF graduate assistants rallied Wednesday to protest student fees they think are unfair.
  About 40 students gathered on 
Plaza of the Americas to speak out against graduate assistant fees, which they say have increased 81 percent since 2005.
  Unlike graduate assistant sti-
pends, the fees are non-negotia-ble because they are not part of graduate assistant contracts, said Patrick McHenry, 32, co-presi-dent of the union Graduate As-sistants United.
  Graduate assistants received a 
3 percent stipend raise last year but also faced a 16 percent in-crease in fees, he said.
  “They’re putting money in one pocket and taking it out of the other one,” said union mem-ber Jose Soto, 31. 
  Almost half of the undergrad-
uate courses offered by the uni-versity are taught by graduate assistants.
  On average this year, members 
of the union said they will return 10 percent of their stipends to UF in fees. 
  “If you work for the univer-
sity, you shouldn’t have to pay to work at the university,” McHen-ry said. 
  Paul Ortiz of the United Fac-
ulty of Florida came to the rally  Graduate assistants 
rally against fee hikes
 EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
  Hyunji Lim and Moonhee Cho 
want to work in America.
  The South Korean women are 
both pursuing their Ph.D. degrees 
in mass communication and have been studying at UF for six and three years, respectively.  Lim, 30, and Cho, 32, both ap-
plied to other American universi-ties but decided on Florida. They said they love Gainesville and re-ally like the weather.
  Lim and Cho are among about 
5,400 international students study-ing at UF — a number that has con-tinued to increase in recent years.
  Debra Anderson, coordinator of international student services at UF, said the university saw its highest number of new, degree-seeking international students ever this fall.
  This year, she said about 1,280 
new students were admitted. In 2010 there were 1,161, and in 2009 there were 929.
  Open Doors, an annual report 
released Monday by the Institute of International Education, indi-cated that this trend is nationwide. A record 723,277 international stu-dents were enrolled in American schools during the 2010-11 school year.
  Anderson said she attributes 
this steady increase partly to the economy. Some students aren’t able to get jobs, she said, and for many, a U.S. education may be cheaper than one at home.
  Countries like China, Saudi 
Arabia and Kuwait have also re-cently implemented programs that promote and fund studying in America, she said.  In China, for example, the Min-
istry of Education has established the China Scholarship Council, a nonproﬁ  t that gives ﬁ  nancial aid to Chinese citizens to study abroad.
  About 22 percent of the total 
international students studying in the U.S. were from China, making it the country with the largest stu-dent representation in the U.S. 
India had held this spot for the 
past decade, but for the ﬁ  rst time in 
Number of international students increasing nationwide
� THE AWARD WILL PAY FOR A NEW 
THERMAL IMAGING DEVICE.
  MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Staff Writer
  You’re paying for a sandwich at Firehouse 
Subs when an employee asks if you want to 
round your bill up to the next dollar for char-ity.   Ever wonder where that money goes?
  Gainesville Fire Rescue is set to get $13,000 
for a new thermal imaging device from that donation fund. The Gainesville City Com-mission is expected to approve the grant at its meeting today.
  When ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters get to a building, some-
times smoke keeps them from ﬁ  nding ﬂ  ames in walls or ceilings. The device will help ﬁ  re-ﬁ  ghters extinguish ﬁ  res faster by pointing out which areas in the building are hottest, Gainesville Fire Rescue Chief Gene Prince said.
  He said his department has a device on 
each of its six ﬁ  re engines, but the new device will be used to replace one that is about 11 years old.
  “We’re using these every day in what we 
do,” Prince said. “Time’s al-ways of the essence.”
  He said the device could 
also be used to ﬁ  nd people who are in burning build-ings, but the department hasn’t needed to use it for 
that purpose yet.
  Meghan Bender, com-
munity programs manager 
for Firehouse Subs Public Safety Foundation, said grant money comes from several types of donations, including selling leftover ﬁ  ve-gal-lon pickle buckets for $2 and collecting money when customers agree to round up their bill to the next dollar.
  That money gets pooled from each Fire-
house Subs restaurant into the grant program. Organizations can submit proposals for fund-ing, and a board of directors decides which proposals to fund.
  Bender said an organization must be locat-
ed within 30 miles of a Firehouse Subs restau-rant in order to be considered for a grant. 
 Firehouse Subs grants $13,000 to Gainesville Fire RescueSEE PROTEST, PAGE 5
SEE STUDENTS, PAGE 5
Prine
ACTIVISM
UF follows the trend“They’re putting money in 
one pocket and taking it out 
of the other one.”
Jose Soto
union memberNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 62 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classiﬁ  eds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jﬂ  echas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
Metro Editor Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Shayna Posses, Marissa Prieto,   
  Rachel Rowan, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Victoria Livingston,   vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org Classiﬁ  ed Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke,   Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
RUB Now Playing: “Tron”
Today,  8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.
Reitz Union AuditoriumWatch how the whole sto-ry started with the original “Tron.” Disney’s “Tron” stars Jeff Bridges as computer pro-grammer Kevin Flynn, who becomes part of the very game that he’s programming. This movie is free and open to the 
public.
Gator Groan 2011
Today, 8 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomTheatre Strike Force pres-ents: “Gator Groan 2011,” a show all about what it really means to be a Gator. Come out Thursday to TSF’s biggest sketch show of the semester. It’s finally time to let the Gator groan.
Student Global AIDS Campaign 
(UF) General Meeting
Today, 7:30 p.m. McCarty B, Room 1108Come learn about fundraising and volunteering opportuni-ties with SGAC. The group is an AIDS education and aware-ness club that hosts fundraisers for global health organizations and serves the Gainesville community in diverse ways. This week, the group will dis-cuss meeting Senator Marco Rubio. To learn more about how to participate, please at-tend the meeting or find the group on Facebook at Student Global AIDS Campaign (UF). Anyway?”-style comedy Friday 
night in Orange & Brew.
Alpha Zeta Pancake Breakfast
Saturday, 8 a.m. to 11 a.m.Applebee’s Restaurant, 1005 NW 13th St.Enjoy two pancakes, two sau-sage links, scrambled eggs and a tall glass of coffee, soda or orange juice for $5 in ad-vance and $7 at the door.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly for-matted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.The T ransgender Day of      Remembrance Vigil 
Today, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Reitz Union AmphitheaterA celebration and candlelight vigil remembering the lives of transgender people who were  victims of violence. Speakers from the community will also be present at the event.
HEAL’s Fall Health Panel
Today, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.Pugh HallGet  pre-health questions answered from students who have gone through the process and from those cur-rently in professional schools. Students from the follow-ing schools will be present: medical, dental, pharmacy , nursing, physical therapy and physician assistant. The health panel is open to ev-eryone. Refreshments will be 
served after.
Theatre Strike Force @ Gator 
NightsFriday, 9:30 p.m.Orange & BrewCome see Theatre Strike Force’s final Gator Nights show of the semester. They’ll be sharing “Whose Line is it 
RAIN
78/52PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/59PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
82/53MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
In September, about 8,000 UF stu-
dents threaded their ways through 
fliers, stickers, party supporters and snaking lines to vote at the on-cam-pus polls.
The Fall 2011 Student Govern-
ment Senate elections were the first time SG implemented the new elec-tronic voting system. Students were able to vote on computers at 11 on-campus polling locations.
However, results generated by 
electronic voting were thrown into question when 535 students voted on District E ballots, up from 65 in 2010’s paper-ballot elections. Fall elections are location-based, and District E is the voting district for commuter students. 
An investigation by the Election 
Commission determined that stu-dents’ addresses were not taken from information students are required to update each year. Students whose permanent, nonlocal addresses were put into the voting system would have been placed in District E.  
Some computers crashed, and stu-dents were turned away from polls.
The integrity of UF’s paper-ballot 
system was called into question dur -
ing the Spring 2011 executive and Senate elections. Three students said they had cast multiple ballots.
Former Senate President Micah 
Lewis, who took office in Spring, said fixing the weaknesses of the elections system was high-priority. He said that before he proposed the new system during the summer, he researched secure-location online voting.
Schools like Florida State Univer -
sity and the University of Central Florida, as well as the University of Georgia, have held online voting elections for at least five years, stu-dent government officials at these schools said. 
The University of South Florida 
adopted a similar system in Spring 2011. FSU, UCF, UGA and USF stu-dents can vote in their schools’ un-restricted voting systems from any computer anywhere through the 
online university accounts.
Lewis said he did not look at 
other schools’ voting systems but in-
stead focused on the 2005 electronic voting attempt at UF and how to im-prove on it. 
He said he still thinks secure-
location electronic voting is the best way for UF to conduct elections.
UF Student Body Treasurer T.J. 
Villamil said allowing students to vote on any computer would open students up to pressure from other students and could present security problems. He said security was the biggest factor in SG choosing the current voting system.
Villamil said he was also on 
board with the switch to UF’s secure-location electronic voting because it saved the school money . 
He said the new electronic voting 
system is given a budget of $25,000 each year. The paper ballots cost UF about $50,000. 
FSU Supervisor of Elections Ju-
liet Kesilyas said she has a $10,000 budget for advertising the elections and a $1,000 budget for miscella-neous costs. 
The Student Government As-
sociation at USF hires V otenet, an outside company, instead of rely-ing on the university’s information technology department as the other three schools do. It costs the school about $7,000 each year.
UCF, FSU and UGA student gov-
ernment officials could not find any direct costs attached to holding un-restricted online voting. 
Several UF SG officials have spo-
ken out against implementing unre-stricted online voting.
They say it would make it easier 
for students to pressure each other into voting for a specific candidate or SG political party.
Senate President Andy Mason 
said that while unrestricted online voting is the easiest method, polling stations protect the integrity of a stu-dent’s vote from pressure by fellow students.At UCF, student pressure to vote 
a certain way is an “issue of con-cern,” said Student Government Association spokeswoman Ashley Tinstman. She said when UCF Sen-ate candidates campaign, they can have laptops in their tents with them so students can vote there, but can-didates can’t direct students to vote a certain way.
The Election Commission at UCF 
also sets up a tent on campus where students can learn about the school’s student government and elections from a neutral source. 
Tinstman said student govern-
ment cannot control what students do in their homes.
Candidates at USF police each 
other, said the school’s supervisor of elections, James Bodden.
“They understand that any ad-
vantage another candidate gets could potentially hurt them,” he said. USF does not have political parties.
Concerns about student pressure 
were raised, and volunteers patrol the campus to deter infractions, he said. 
UGA’s student government has 
also taken a proactive role recently.
Attorney General and head of the 
Elections Committee Wes Robinson said that until changes began in the spring, the executive candidates on a ticket would assemble Senate can-didates to support their platform.
Robinson said the Senate candi-
dates were “just running off of what-ever the executive ticket wanted.” New rules at UGA prohibit that.
He said the Elections Committee 
has since become more involved in the elections. 
The committee proposes changes 
to Senate, drives around campus to check that candidates are campaign-ing correctly and hears complaints.
“Virtually every aspect of elec-
tions falls under our responsibility ,” he said.
UF Supreme Court Chief Justice 
Matt Michel said the role of the Elec-tion Commission is defined in the SG Election Code. The Commission hears complaints and recommends to the Senate whether results should be validated.
The Senate has the authority to 
vote on changes to the codes. 
“They have pretty broad discre-
tion as to what they want the Elec-tion Commission to do or not do,” he said.
The commission heard the ap-
peal from members of the Students Party on Sept. 30 and denied it.
After the decision, party mem-
bers took the appeal to UF’s Su-preme Court. Court Justices heard the appeal and ordered the  commis-sion to investigate the procedures.
The court decided not to order 
new elections but asserted its right to do so and suggested the Senate make changes to the election codes.
Justice Tim Mason said at an Oct. 
12 meeting that he did not want to see the same issues resurface before the court.
“I’m going to be less forgiving,” 
he said.
Lewis said some codes should be 
addressed before spring elections, but he isn’t convinced that unre-stricted online voting could main-tain privacy of student votes.
He said SG and its culture might 
set the school apart, and challenges at UF might not be issues at other universities.
“The excitement and intricacy 
that surrounds elections is much more pronounced [at UF],” he said.
Jeanna Mastrodicasa, assistant 
vice president for Student Affairs at UF, said she knows other schools successfully use unrestricted online voting, but administrators don’t make changes to the voting system. 
She said it’s up to students and 
SG to decide on unrestricted or se-cure-location electronic voting.
“If that’s what the students want 
to do, they can make it happen,” she said.
At Tuesday night’s Senate meet-
ing, Mason announced 11 senators who will serve on the committee to revise elections rules. Sens. Matt Mountjoy and Katie Waldman will lead them.
Waldman said implementing a 
new system is a possibility . She plans to look at systems used at schools like Ohio State University, the Uni-versity of South Carolina and the University of Alabama. 
“I think we’re going to look at the 
whole system from the top down,” she said.4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
Emily Doyle / Alligator
Warren Burgher, 19, a mechanical engineering junior, votes in the 
Reitz Union computer lab on Sept. 27 for the SG elections.
SG voting: An inside look at how it works at UF and other schools
Type of Voting Turnout Cost/year Political Parties
Unrestricted onlineElectronic on designated  
on-campus computers
Unrestricted onlineNoYes
Small parties based 
on colleges2,347 (bigger in 
spring: 6,001)8,271
last raw number available is 
7,306 in 2009 (estimated 3 
percent less in 2011Unrestricted online Yes, but not stable 4,689 Online is free
$7,000$25,000Unrestricted online Yes 2,873Online is free, 
$10,000 for ads, 
$1,000 for misc.
Online is free, 
planning advertising 
budget
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator Staff“Virtually every aspect 
of elections falls under our 
responsibility.”
Wes Robinson
head of UGA Elections Committeeto voice his support for graduate 
assistants. 
Professors can’t teach classes 
and continue to do their research without the help of graduate as-sistants, and people forget that, he said. 
Protesters marched to Tigert 
Hall, where they asked Board of Trustees liaison Jamal Sowell to put the issue of graduate assis-tant fees on the board’s agenda for the December meeting. 
Student fees, which are also 
paid by undergraduates, help pay for RecSports, student health care and legal services, counsel-ing and other services graduate students use, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said.Graduate assistant fees also 
go toward GatorGradCare, a health insurance plan the assis-tants receive through employ-ment at UF.
“If they’re not paying the 
fees, someone has to,” she said. 
In August, 
President Ber -
nie Machen announced his desire to eval-uate graduate programs and find ways to improve them.
His suggestions included in-
creasing graduate assistant sti-pends. 
He is expected to discuss the 
stipends at the December Board of Trustees meeting.  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Amanda Cohen / Alligator
Man’s Best Friend
UF graduate Robbie Curry, 35, who has cerebral palsy, and his assistance dog, Alister,                             
participated in the Disability Awareness Fair on Wednesday on the Reitz Union North Lawn to promote the organization Canine Companions for Independence. Read the story at alligator.org.
Majority of international students study science, engineering
five years, the enrollment of Indian 
students decreased in the U.S.
This fall, the number of Chi-
nese students studying at UF exceeded the number of Indian students, Anderson said. 
The majority of international students study engineering or other science fields.
In 2010, there were about 5,400 
international students at UF, about 2,400 of whom were study-ing engineering.
The Open Doors report said 
the trends work both ways. About 10,000 more U.S. students studied abroad last year than in the previous school year. 
Kirsten Laufer, assistant di-rector of study abroad services at UF, said she has seen a drastic increase in students’ interest in programs in India and China. 
UF ran six programs in China 
this summer, and about 100 stu-dents participated, said Laufer. 
Laufer said the majority of stu-
dents are interested in studying the language — an increasingly valuable skill as economic ties with China continue to grow.
For Cho, studying in the U.S. 
has increased the number of op-tions she has after grad school, she said.
“I’m keeping all my possibili-
ties open,” she said.
students , from page 1
PRO test  from page 1They want the Board of 
Trustees to hear the issue“I’m keeping all my      
possibilities open.”
Moonhee Cho
P h . D .  c a n d i d a t e  i n                       
Mass Communications
sikes
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR230 TOTAL VOTES28% YES
72% NOWednesday’s question: Do you think the 
SG supervisor of elections should have been impeached?Today’s question: Would you vote in SG elections if you 
could do it online?Guest column
CHOICES is a program worth funding
CHOICES saved my life.
I’ve been reading all of the negative letters 
and commentary about CHOICES, the county’s 
insurance for the working poor, and I realized that what 
is missing from the dialogue is the voices of the people that have benefited from the program.
I attended UF 22 years ago and moved west for jour -
nalism jobs. Two years ago, I moved back to the area and took a full-time job teaching high school. 
One of the reasons I moved back to Gainesville was 
for the renowned medical research going on at UF. 
In 2002, I was diagnosed with Graves’ disease, which 
is a chronic thyroid immune malfunction. In my case, I started losing weight so rapidly that during a weekend I would drop up to 10 of my 120 pounds even though I ate three square meals a day. 
I tried treatment with doses of a thyroid inhibitor, 
but it continued to triple in size, block my airway and accelerate my metabolism. 
I didn’t sleep for more than three or four hours a 
night for many years. 
So I decided to take a part-time teaching job last 
year to give my body rest and, in doing so, qualified for CHOICES as my husband had been unemployed since we moved here, and our income was less than $24,000. 
I wiped out my retirement fund in these past two 
years to pay the bills. 
I have worked a minimum of two jobs since I turned 
16 and have never received public assistance before, not even unemployment benefits.
Through CHOICES, I received treatment from the 
nation’s top endocrinologists and ear, nose and throat surgeons. 
As nodules began forming on my thyroid and biop-
sies became a norm, I decided to have the gland com-pletely removed to avoid the “big C.”    
As an indirect outcome of what CHOICES did for me, my husband was able to at-tend Florida School of Massage and received his license to prac-tice in April. 
I have graduated from the CHOICES program and 
now receive my current medical benefits from UF’s Ga-torGradCare program while working as a teaching as-sistant. 
While CHOICES did not pay for my husband to go 
through his training program directly, it allowed me to pay the mortgage and living expenses while he could not find work. 
Not having a health insurance bill each month trans-
ferred to his ability to be a full-time student for six months and receive job skills and training.   
A very heartfelt “Thank you” goes to CHOICES. And to the complaining taxpayers: Saving my life 
may not be worth the $40 million sitting in the CHOIC-ES account, but my friends, family and 1,500 former stu-dents disagree. 
And remember that this Alachua County resident 
who has no children of her own gladly pays prop-erty taxes that help support local programs, including schools and the education of other people’s children. 
CHOICES does have its flaws and the program could 
be a success if the enrollment process were restructured and the outreach connected with recipients who don’t seem to know how to take advantage of this gift. 
Perhaps instead of gleaning revenue for CHOICES 
from general sales taxes, we could increase the tax on cigarettes to help fund it.  
In this university town full of the world’s greatest 
minds, I’m sure a solution to the CHOICES dilemma is just a brainstorm meeting away from discovery. 
 Suzette Cook is a graduate student in the College of 
Journalism and Communications, 1990 graduate of UF and former photo editor of the Alligator.WTF?
Student Government 
has no accountability
If ever there was a moment for the Student Government 
to turn to Article VII of its Constitution, dealing with im-peachment of executive officers, the recent election debacle 
would be it. 
Did SG make sure that someone was accountable for the 
screw up during the last election cycle? 
Of course not. That would be ethical, legal and responsi-
ble. 
On Tuesday night, SG voted not to impeach Supervisor of 
Elections Toni Megna. 
To be clear, impeaching a member of SG does not mean that 
the person will be removed from office. Instead, it means that he or she will face a Student Senate trial on charges of “mis-feasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance, abuse of power or convic-tion of a criminal offense while in office.” 
At issue in this case was “nonfeasance” on the part of Meg-
na, which the impeachment agenda defined as “the nonper -
formance of some act which ought to be performed.” 
The resolution, drafted by members of the Students Party, 
included 13 elections codes they believed were not followed. 
On Tuesday, the Senate went through each of the 13 code 
violations and voted on whether they were true. If Megna was found not to follow a code, then the Senate considered wheth-er to impeach her. 
The Senate voted, by a two-thirds majority, that eight of the 
13 rules were not followed. Did they vote that any of these infractions warranted impeachment? 
Of course not. That would be ethical, legal and responsi-
ble. 
The members of SG that voted against the articles of im-
peachment have violated the honor code in Article I, Section 3 of their constitution, which states “We, the members of the University of Florida community, pledge to hold ourselves and our peers to the highest standards of honesty and integrity.” 
The members of SG have shown that they do not care about 
just or fair processes and, instead, opt for convenience, crony-ism and favoritism. 
Sen. Katie Waldman excused Megna’s lack of following the 
rules by saying that she was a student with other responsibili-ties. 
Well she shouldn’t have been supervisor of elections. It’s 
not brain surgery. If you think there might be a problem with performing your duties and obligations when applying for a position, you probably shouldn’t go for that position. Any and all mistakes made after the fact are on you, and you need to atone for them. 
SG recognizes that rules were not followed and held no 
one accountable. Well, then, why have election rules in the first place? 
Just change it up every semester. Obviously hardly anyone 
in SG cares that rules are followed. 
For that matter, if you’re not going to use your impeach-
ment powers when they are needed, you might as well get rid of those, too.Suzette Cook
Speaking Out
 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Construction on campus needs 
to be scheduled better
Has this happened to you? You sit down, pencil sharpened, 
Gator1 in hand — ready for your exam. Time begins, and promptly, large crashing noises begin out of nowhere. 
On campus construction has 
struck again. 
This happened to me during my 
second exam in Vertebrate Zool-ogy, a class that you need all your focus to complete a test in time. The construction did not start until our exam had started. It was silent prior to our start. The construction is several floors above our room; however, the cranes, lifts and dropping of materials can be clear -
ly heard through an entire wall of windows. 
While it is understandable that 
UF must keep up with the de-mands students and faculty place on its physical structures, it is ab-surd that the construction should happen during classes,  especially exams. 
Understandably, it will happen. 
But, the university should respect the challenges that students face in testing situations  — even when it is silent.
I challenge UF to rectify this sit-
uation. Although it is a challenge with a student population so large and the immense number of class-es that occur each class hour, the problem should be addressed in some form. Maybe even by some-thing so simple as shifting lunch breaks to allow for quiet in a build-ing with many classes.
Carolyn Huntley
Fourth year entomology major at UF Letter to the Editor
The financial collapse of late 2008 has 
left many in the U.S. scratching their heads. How did something like this 
happen? What are the origins of this mess? What exactly can we do to fix it?
The U.S. government and the Federal 
Reserve Board appeared to have the an-swers, claiming it was a failure of the mar -
ket that caused the crisis. Sweeping into action, they bailed out the banks, piled on the regulations and began pumping new money into the market in order to jump-start the dying economy. 
However, when utilizing the lens of 
the Austrian business cycle theory as de-veloped by Ludwig von Mises, it is easy to see that the collapse was not a failure of the market: It was a failure of monetary policy.
A recession occurs when large sec-
tors of the economy see drastically fall-ing prices more or less at the same time. Money is the common connection between all prices; therefore, monetary policy is the place to search for the problem. The Fed-eral Reserve, in particular, is the entity in charge of monetary policy and upon closer inspection is arguably the biggest part of the problem.
The Fed has the ability to raise and lower 
interest rates, which it does by decreasing or increasing the money supply, respec-tively. By doing so, the Fed sends signals to investors about the ratio between con-sumption and savings within the economy. By raising interest rates, the Fed tells inves-tors that consumers are interested in pur -
chasing goods in the present, thus sending the signal to invest in consumer goods. 
By lowering interest rates, the Fed is 
saying that consumers are more interested in investing in the future; thus it is signal-ing that saving is up and to go ahead and invest in higher-order goods –  things like houses. This is risky, however, because the Fed can change interest rates in ways that come into conflict with the economy’s actual consumption to savings ratio. 
Trying to calculate what market interest rates really are is frankly impossible due to the complexity of the marketplace. This is where problems begin to arise.
Austrian business cycle theory explains 
that if the Fed artificially lowers interest rates below that of the actual market level, new money pours into the banks and is then used to make loans. Investors see all of the new money as increased savings on the part of the consumer, signaling them to invest in higher order goods. 
The investments are made, and the mon-
ey begins to trickle down to the consumer. When consumers receive all this new mon-ey, they go out and spend it at the actual consumption-to-savings ratio that is higher than the one the Fed signaled. Thus, the in-vestments made in higher-order goods are unprofitable due to a lack of demand, mak-ing huge portions of the economy go under all at once. We now have a recession.
This same process is the cause of the re-
cent recession and the reason more expan-sionary monetary policy will not be a cure. In response to the bursting of the dot-com bubble in the early 2000s, the Fed, under the direction of Chairman Alan Greenspan, slashed interest rates to as low as 1 percent between June 2003 to June 2004. This put into motion the disinvestment that led to the housing bubble that burst in 2007. 
Investors believed that the time was 
right to invest in higher-order goods – in this case, housing. However, when it came time to pay for all of the new housing, there just wasn’t enough real consumer demand, and prices began to fall drasti-cally. The rest of the economy soon fol-lowed with the stock market crash in 2008. The crash in stocks was due to the fact that stocks are units of title to masses of capital or higher-order goods and the artificially low interest rates fooled investors into thinking there would be adequate demand for such goods.
In response to the crisis, the Fed has 
called for two rounds of monetary expan-sion, labeled QE I and QE II, and has kept interest rates near 0 percent in an attempt to jump-start the economy. With real, U6, unemployment figures stagnating around 16 percent and few signs of economic im-provement in the near future, this is clearly not working.
If the Federal Reserve and the U.S. gov-
ernment really want to end the recession and begin the recovery process, they must allow for the necessary liquidation of disin-vestment and debt to occur. This was once the policy of the U.S. government toward recessions, and it worked. From 1920 to 1921, for example, the country was hit with recession. The government, with Warren G. Harding as president, stood aside, cut spending and slashed taxes while the Fed did nothing as far as monetary stimulation was concerned. 
Recovery was painful but quick as the 
market recovered and found growth again in only one year. 
Unfortunately, shortly after this, the Fed 
began tinkering with the monetary base in 1923, setting up the bubble of the Roaring ‘20s that would later burst into the Great Depression. Instead of following its prede-cessor, however, the Hoover administra-tion encouraged and adopted inflationary monetary policies very similar to those currently in practice by the Ben Bernanke Fed and the Obama White House.
This must be changed, as these policies 
will only re-inflate the bubble, drag out the pain of recession and set up the economy and the American people for even bigger trouble down the road.
Logan Depover is a columnist for The 
Daily Iowan at the University of Iowa. 
Flawed monetary policy caused economic collapseUWire
Logan Depover
UWiretheAvenue    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
Twit Pick
@SethMacFarlane: 
“Still have not had one sweet dream made of anything involving Annie Lennox.” Moves like Blogger    
Click over to alligator.org/blogs for a review of a London-based designer’s Top Shop line and the flick “J. Edgar” starring Leonardo DiCaprio and remembering the “thanks” in Thanksgiving. Already stressing out about next semester’s load? Go online for tips on how to tackle UF’s most difficult classes.  
Payal Patel / Alligator 
A scoop of organic, dairy-based cardamom ice cream at Karma Cream. 
The organic ice cream cafe offers a natural spin on favorite treats.
 He Says…  She Says… He said, she said: How do you tackle the first sheets salsa? 
You can date your new beau for 
weeks, discover all of his or her quirky turn ons and even 
go ALMOST all the way , but not even the friskiest of foreplay can ensure a blunder-less first screw. That’s just the way it is. Awkward moments are inevitable when it’s your first time in the sack with someone new. 
The silver lining to first timing is 
that there are some ways to mitigate the damage. 
Ensure your debut is a grand one 
by showing some confidence at your opening performance. It’s a turnoff for ladies and fellas alike when that special time finally comes and his or her partner is floundering around like it’s his or her ACTUAL first time. (And even if it is, pretend like it isn’t. Fake it till you make it.) Recall all that porn you watched in — cough, cough — high school, and come out of the gates poised like a pro.
Even though you’re now ooz-
ing confidence, make sure to keep the sex simple. First sex may make you want to show off every weapon in your arsenal, but there’s nothing more annoying than a partner who switches positions every 10 seconds.
Remember, this is just a test 
run — a chance to extinguish any physical qualms that may still exist between the two of you. It’s an event just as emo-tional as it is physical. The goal is being comfortable with each other when all is said and done. If you can accomplish this, consider yourself lucky… and gear up for round two.
 — JACOB ROMOSERLosing your virginity — raise your hand if the memory mortifies you.
Performing “field research” for this week’s 
column taught me a lesson: People do not enjoy conversing about the uncomfortable, embarrassing situations they find themselves in when they get it on with someone for the first time. Even the most vague 
respondents I met certainly did not want to give their names for print. 
This got me thinking about virginity . It has 
always seemed like once we hit puberty, virgin-ity all of sudden becomes bigger than a big deal. Some teens are in a race to lose it, while others hold on to their virginity as though it is a token of pureness. I remember reading a statistic that stated 50 percent of high school students gradu-
ate as virgins. Why the even divide?  
What is going on with virginity , and if so many of 
us have had humiliating first-time experiences, why are we so reluctant to openly laugh about them? Bet-ter yet, why aren’t most of us turned off from sex for good?Personally , I fell into the category of a high school 
virgin. Sure, I had boyfriends throughout my teens, and many of my friends were hooking up left and right. But, when it came time for me to “do it,” I total-ly wasn’t ready. So, when I did lose my virginity as a college freshman (to my new, highly experienced 25-year-old boyfriend who didn’t know I was a virgin … talk about nervousness!), you can only imagine my disappointment when it lasted MAYBE two minutes and ended when he orgasmed without me realizing he had had an orgasm.  
Awesome. The truth is, even if you aren’t a virgin, having sex 
with someone for the first time brings about enor -
mous pressures. We all want to be impressive, to rock someone’s world in a way that has never happened before. But be real — hitting a home run the first time at bat almost never happens, even for a seasoned pro-fessional. I feel like anyone with a heart understands this; perhaps it’s why we choose not to discuss bad sex but will give even the worst lay a second chance.
— KAY BEAKIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer 
As I took the first bite of my Mexican Chocolate ice 
cream, I knew I made the right decision. The cool sen-
sation melted away the Florida heat. A rich flavor of chocolate and cinnamon coated my mouth. It took me back to Mexico, where the only thing I had to worry about was which hammock to lie in. It was not until I looked up at the chalkboard menu that I realized the ice cream was organic.
Karma Cream is an organic ice cream cafe located 
at 1025 W. University Ave.  It serves more than 30 dairy and more than 25 vegan ice cream flavors. 
V egan Payal Patel and vegetarian Kyle Fick created 
the shop as an extension of their own personal beliefs. Since it opened in 2009, the cafe has only grown in popularity . 
“We’re not trying to make people lose weight here,” 
Fick joked. “We are trying to get people to become more conscious about the source of their sweets.” 
Along with ice cream, the cafe also sells vegan can-
dy bars; sandwiches; and baked vegan and organic items, such as cupcakes, cookies, brownies and cakes. The ice cream is shipped from California and Chicago due to the lack of space. However, Patel does all the baking.  
Eating organic is very important for many reasons, 
Patel said. One advantage is that it is beneficial for personal health.
“You’re not ingesting anything artificial,” she said. 
“Let’s say you ingest produce, you’re not consuming pesticides, herbicides or any type of processed fertil-izers. You’re really avoiding the use of manufactured chemicals.” 
V egan food is free of cholesterol because there are 
no animal products in it. 
“If you have issues with high cholesterol or you 
are trying to watch your cholesterol, adopting a vegan diet is very beneficial to that,” Patel said. “V egan diets are good because generally it’s a lifestyle choice rather than just a dietary choice. It impacts the choices you make in a broader perspective regarding the foods you eat.”
People can eat unhealthy on any diet, whether an 
omnivore or vegan. Balanced diets are important, she said.
Most people consider frozen yogurt to be a health-
ier alternative because sometimes it is lower in fat and without cream.
“Things that people don’t take into consideration 
are the other ingredients that go into making [frozen] yogurt, like the artificial ingredients, preservatives and fillers that are added,” Patel said. “Our dairy ice cream is a full-fat ice cream. It is made with whole cream, milk, eggs and all-natural, organic cane sugar, but that’s it. Nothing questionable goes into the ice cream, and I think that really comes out in the flavor when you taste it.” 
People can pronounce everything that is on the in-
gredient label. It is not 5 inches long, she said.
Karma Cream researches carefully to make sure it 
is getting the highest quality ingredients possible. 
“Things advertise themselves as all-natural, which 
can mean almost anything,” Patel said. “There’s no regulation to the use of that term. Something can be derived from something else that came from a fruit.”
She said that by the time the product reaches its end 
process, it has been synthesized.  However, people are allowed to call it all-natural because of its sourcing. 
“I like to use my dollar to affect the kind of change 
I want to see happen,” Fick said. “Karma Cream, on a larger scale, is now a producer. I think we can make a bigger difference.” Organic treats pack health benefits   sweets -
“If you have issues with high cho -
lesterol or you are trying to watch your 
cholesterol, adopting a vegan diet is very 
beneficial to that.”
Payal Patel
creator of Karma Cream
 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
AMANDA JAE FRETZ
Avenue Writer
He collapsed on the bed, his 
6-foot-3 frame too long for the ex-
tra-long twin. His feet hung over the wooden bedposts. His chest heaved as he allowed his long arms to succumb to gravity and dangle over the mattress. 
Dance music blared from the 
TV in the tiny dorm room. His right hand loosely clutched the white controller.
Bruno Sinibaldi, a lifelong run-
ner, soccer player and all-around athlete, just got his ass whooped by a video game.
“Just Dance 3” had that effect 
on several that evening including the aforementioned 19-year-old mechanical engineering sopho-more. 
Friends Nick Sholl, a 19-year-
old mechanical and aerospace engineering freshman, and Brit-tany Willis, a 19-year-old nurs-ing freshman, felt the burn the newly-released game has to offer as we gathered in my dorm room one Thursday evening. 
And rightfully so. Based on a study where a 20-
year-old female weighing ap-proximately 130 pounds wore a device called the bodybugg (which most-accurately mea-sures caloric expenditure regard-ing motion, internal body tem-perature, skin conductivity and changing skin temperature), 30 minutes of constant Just Dance use burnt 190 calories. 
That is to say, weighing more 
than 130 pounds or being male would increase the calories burnt. 
The average song on “Just 
Dance 3” is three-and-a-half min-utes long.
“I’m really freaking tired,” 
Sinibaldi said, hunched over and still breathing heavily as he chugged a glass of water. “I didn’t give the game enough credit.”The latest edition to the Just 
Dance line features not only new songs but also new moves. 
An avid Just Dance player, I’ve 
found that the third installment’s choreography allows for much less cheating – a good move on Ubisoft’s part, as they advertise “Just Dance 3” as a “good work-out.”
The game features a Just Sweat 
It Out mode in which you can ac-cumulate sweat points and, well, sweat a lot. This installment also features brand new Mash-Ups, some of which feature a more workout-video style of dancing. 
A favorite of that Thursday 
evening was the song “Barbra Streisand” by Duck Sauce (the “ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh” song made popular by “Glee” in its second season that has since made any-one watching the Vitamin Water Revive commercial stop every-thing and dance), and it was dur -
ing that song that a Sholl-Willis showdown occurred. 
While Willis was the victor, 
it was the video taken on Sini-baldi’s iPhone that proved Sholl the true winner for his effortless grace and style.
It may be roaming YouTube 
this very second. I can neither confirm nor deny.
Try “Just Dance 3,” out for the 
Wii and Xbox 360 platforms, for $39.99. The game was released Oct. 7. 
‘Just Dance 3’ offers calorie-burning workout to popular tracksdancingKATE FELDMAN
Avenue writer
Childhoods ended Friday. 
The final Harry Potter movie, “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hal-
lows  — Part 2,” was released on DVD, marking the official end of J.K. 
Rowling’s series … for now, at least.
“I’ve been such a Harry Potter nerd since the first book came out, 
and my grade school teacher read it to our class,” said Yuchun Lai, 
a 20-year-old marketing sophomore. “I’ve bought three Harry Potter  film books because I love all of the behind-the-scenes stuff.” 
But much to the dismay of Harry Potter fans, Warner Bros. has 
spoken, and the DVD, along with the rest of the movies, will only be on shelves until Dec. 29. In other words, you have about six weeks to buy your copy.
Warner Bros. is following in the footsteps of Disney, who puts 
movies in the vault and releases them every few years as “special edi-
tions.” In October 2009, the cycle began again with 
“Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” being released on Blu-ray as a “Diamond Edition.” 
Elizabeth Boone, an 18-year-old business admin-
istration and theater freshman, said, although she already owns all of the DVDs, this move is an out-rage.
“Potential fans are getting cheated,” she said. 
“Though there are many ways of getting the movies 
regardless, it’s still not cool.”
 Not all is lost, as Warner Bros. is only pulling the movies in 
the United States; the DVDs will stay on the shelves in the rest of the world.
At Walmart, the single DVD is priced at $13.96, and a bundle of all 
eight DVDs, called “Harry Potter: Complete 8-Film Collection,” can be purchased online for $49.96. The Blu-ray version includes a conver -
sation with Rowling and Daniel Radcliffe, a feature on the goblins and a look at the women in Harry Potter’s world.
Representatives from Walmart, Target and Best Buy all refused to 
comment on presale orders of the DVD.
The film franchise has grossed about $12.1 billion for Warner Bros. 
so far, including $92.1 million the first day the final movie opened in theaters in the United States. Worldwide, “Deathly Hallows  — Part 2” 
made over $1.3 billion in the box office. 
For those who plan on being too busy studying to buy the movie 
before Dec. 29, don’t worry: Warner Bros. plans on re-releasing all the 
movies in late 2012, likely with additional features.
But even this is little comfort for the most avid Harry Potter fans.Math sophomore Jeremy Sparks, 19, summed up the Warner Bros. 
actions simply: “Greedy bastards.”Final Potter DVD on 
shelves for limited time The Ultimate Series Showdown: Team Harry Potter or Twilight?
ARYANNA HARRELL, ERICA A. HERNANDEZ and DEVIN NUNEZ
avenue writers
Whether you side with Team Edward or Team Jacob, die-hard Twilight 
fans are unanimously excited for the upcoming release of “The Twilight 
Saga: Breaking Dawn: Part 1.” 
“I’m definitely going to go see it,” said Katherine Dunnigan, 21-year-old 
engineering junior at UF.
Dunnigan is one of many who will venture out to local theaters to see the 
new movie, which premieres Nov. 18.  A few local theaters are already sell-ing tickets for the film’s midnight release.
“Tickets are currently on sale at our box office,” said Rami Badawi, the 
general manager at Gator Cinemas, located at 6741 W. Newberry Road. “We’re expecting to sell out.” 
The last midnight premiere of the previous film, “The Twilight Saga: 
Eclipse,” which was released June 30, 2010, sold out. The venue hosted a later 2 a.m. showing to accommodate customers, Badawi said. Gator Cin-emas will most likely be having a 3 a.m. showing for this release. 
The Regal Gainesville Cinema Stadium 14 will also be participating in 
“Breaking Dawn” midnight premieres. It has also been 
hosting “Twilight Saga Tuesdays” every Tuesday leading up to the premiere. It showed the saga’s movies as well as cast interviews and sneak peeks from “The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn: Part 1.” 
Bryant Rafferty , an assistant manager at the Regal 
Gainesville Cinema Stadium 14, said the premiere will be one of the busiest midnight premieres it has all year.
“Breaking Dawn” is the fourth movie of the saga based 
on the book series written by Stephenie Meyer. The series 
consists of four fantasy teen novels that follow the lives of a human, Bella Swan, played by Kristen Stewart; a vampire, Edward Cullen, played by Rob-ert Pattinson; and a werewolf, Jacob Black, played by Taylor Lautner. 
“‘Twilight’ is a classic love story,” said Melissa Ramsey, a 22-year-old nu-
trition and food science senior at UF. “Most people are interested in the idea of fate and true love, and ‘Twilight’ portrays that very well. It doesn’t hurt to have a cast that includes Robert Pattinson and Taylor Lautner, either.”
Dunnigan said the books are better than the movies, but she still watches 
them to see how they compare.
“The movies are pretty good, but they’re no ‘Harry Potter,’” she said.This story encompasses not only love but also a rivalry between Jacob 
and Edward. Fans are faced with the tough decision of choosing between the two, as Bella often is. 
“I don’t know if I could pick between Edward or Jacob,” Ramsey said. 
“This movie gives you the choice to take sides and hope that your team wins.  We like competition, so the rivalry is normally taken very seriously.”
“I’m team Jacob,” said Allison Karnbach, 21-year-old dietetics junior at 
UF. 
Despite her loyalty to Team Jacob, she will be standing alongside Team 
Edward fans at the midnight premiere. Fans hoping to attend a midnight premiere of the film are encouraged to preorder tickets, because when the sun sets tonight, all fans of the series, regardless of team affiliations, will come out to watch more than just the usual break of dawn.Local theaters prep for
‘Breaking Dawn: Pt. 1’
The Showdown:
Twlight 
vs. 
Harry Potter
 
 
  “I think people get stuck in 
the world, and it’s like an es-cape. People start to think of [the movie] as a book or story and just can’t wait to see what the characters do next.”— Allison Karnbach, a 21-year-old dietet-ics junior at UF.
 “‘Twilight’ is a classic love 
story. Most people are inter-ested in the idea of fate and true love, and ‘Twilight’ portrays that very well. It doesn’t hurt to have a cast that includes Robert Pattinson and Taylor Lautner, either.”— Melissa Ramsey, a 22-year-old nutrition and food sci-ence senior at UF.  Twi-hards“J.K. Rowling wrote a better 
love story in two chapters than Stephenie Meyer did in four books. I saw that on Twitter.”—Garrett Cher, 21, English educa-tion senior at UF.
  “[Harry Potter] created a believable world. 
Something you could believe in or at least imagine.”— Taylor Maxﬁ  eld, 21-year-old chemical engineering junior at UF.
   “I grew up with [Harry 
Potter]. It was my childhood.”—Melissa Del Burgo, 19-year old industrial engineering sopho-more at UF. Potter  Team  
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator StaffRadcliffe
 Pattinson
“I’m really freaking tired.”
Bruno Sinibaldi
Just Dance 3 player10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Drake’s sophomore album, “Take Care,” dropped Tuesday.
AUDREYANNA LOGUERRE
Avenue Writer 
Despite the album leak, Drake’s sopho-
more album “Take Care” sat at the No. 1 spot 
on the iTunes album downloads list as of Wednesday night.
The release of “Take Care” has been high-
ly anticipated, resulting in a week-early leak on the night of Nov. 6. The album sold in stores Tuesday with three tracks that weren’t included on the version leaked on the Inter -
net. 
On Nov. 6, tracks from the album slowly 
appeared on YouTube one by one, eventually leading to the leak of practically the entire album, except for “The Ride,” featuring The Weeknd, and two bonus tracks, “Hate Sleep-ing Alone” and “The Motto,” featuring Lil Wayne. 
The artist tweeted that night, “I am not 
sure if the album leaked. But if it did, thank god it doesn’t happen a month early any-more.”
He later added, “Listen, enjoy it, buy it if 
you like it ... and take care until next time.”
The 20-track album features Billboard Hot 
100 hit singles “Headlines” and “Make Me Proud,” featuring Young Money labelmate Nicki Minaj. The summer radio hit “Marvins Room” is included on the album as well. 
The album features well-known artists 
such as Rihanna, Rick Ross, Andre 3000 and Stevie Wonder.  
On the track “Over My Dead Body,” Drake 
raps about his career success and the impact this album will have on the music industry. Lines from the first verse are:
“Are these people really discussing my 
career again? 
Asking if I’ll be going platinum in a year 
again? 
Don’t I got the sh*t the world wanna hear 
again? 
Don’t Michael Jordan still got his hoop 
earring in?”
Drake’s career has indeed skyrocketed 
in the last year. Unlike his first album and numerous mixtapes, a different side of the Canadian rapper is revealed with each track. Heed Drake’s advice: Listen, enjoy and “Take Care.”Drake’s ‘Take Care’  album has 
strong debut despite early leak 
“Listen, enjoy it, buy it if you like it 
... and take care until next time.”
Drake
rap artist 
  DANA BURKE
 Avenue Contributing Writer 
  Scents of cinnamon, nutmeg, brown sug-
ar and baked apples escape from the oven, 
ﬁ  lling the kitchen with the warm aroma that is reminiscent of grandma’s baking come holiday time. 
  Becca Goldring is testing a recipe for a classic apple pie, the most recent baked good featured on her blog, becca-bakes.com, where she chronicles her scrumptious endeavors in the world of food.
  Unlike grandma, Goldring spends her 
time out of the kitchen as a member of UF’s track and ﬁ  eld team. 
  “When I was in middle school, I wanted 
to try out for the track team, and they forced you to try out for more than one event,” Goldring said. “I thought I might as well try to do the high jump, and I ended up being randomly good at it.”
  Like with the high jump, Goldring 
stumbled into her baking company, Becca Bakes.
  “I was just baking for fun, and I made 
a blog to keep track of all of my recipes,” she said.  “It progressed to a better site, and then I started selling, and now it has turned into a company.”
  Goldring produces all of her recipes her-
self, an art form she learned while interning at Yum Cupcakery, which has since moved to a downtown location and changed its name to Sarkara Sweets.
  “I learned a lot about the science of ingre-
dients and how ratios can affect the recipe,” Goldring said. “Plus, I got paid in cupcakes. It was delicious.”
  Goldring’s tasty edibles are available for 
purchase by request on her website.
  The track team has even worked out a 
sweet deal with the sociology junior.
  “Whenever the track team wins a cham-
pionship, they get a cake,” Goldring said.   “I made a vanilla cake once, but I dyed the top layer orange and the bottom layer blue, so it was really festive when they cut it.”
  Birthdays are another celebratory occa-
sion for Goldring because they provide an opportunity to test new recipes on her fa-vorite guinea pigs — her friends.
  “When I ﬁ  rst started baking, I would use 
a birthday as a reason to try a new recipe,” she said. “Actually, I still do that.”
  Lexi Muniz, Goldring’s friend and team-
mate, is happy to eat any Becca Bakes treat. 
  “There are people on the team who will 
be talking about her cake before we even head back to Gainesville after a champion-ship,” Muniz said. “Everyone on the team enjoys hearing about her baking, and we are always willing to taste test.”
  As part of the track team, it is crucial that 
Goldring and her teammates have to  stay in shape. 
  “For track, I can’t be constantly eating 
baked goods, so my trick is to just give them away,” Goldring said.
  Muniz said that even though she’s al-
ways baking, come training season, Gol-dring knows when to offer and when not to offer her teammates treats.
  “As athletes we are pretty much always 
hungry, whether that’s a good or bad thing,” Muniz said.  “Even if we’re training, a treat from Becca’s kitchen always hits the spot.”
  Some of Goldring’s favorite recipes in-
clude pumpkin whoopie pies, hazelnut blondies, margarita sugar cookies and her never-fail devil’s food cake.  
  “I try not to repeat recipes, but some 
things are just classics,” Goldring said.  “They’re so good I just have to make them a second time.”
  Creating recipes is relaxing for the 21-
year-old who uses baking as a form of ex-pression. 
  “When I’m creating a recipe, I have sev-
eral different websites open and take ele-ments from each,” she said. “It’s kind of like a Frankenstein.”
  Becca Bakes turned into a legitimate 
company after UF Hillel’s program direc-tor attended one of her local markets and offered the track star a place to bake. 
  “I told him that if I ever wanted to do 
this legitimately I would have to bake in a certiﬁ  ed kitchen,” Goldring said. “He said if you make it kosher you can bake at Hillel, so I did.”
  Jeff Kaplan, program director at UF Hil-
lel, loves having Goldring bake at Hillel.  
  “We are the Jewish Student Center, and 
as such, we need to be a resource for our students,” Kaplan said. “Some students ﬁ  nd this through coming to Jewish learning classes, others do this by doing social justice and community service work with us. Becca does it by baking in our kitchen.”
  Kaplan is a big fan of Goldring’s bak-
ing, attending the markets and citing her “inception cookie,” an Oreo cookie within a chocolate chip cookie, as his favorite sweet treat.
  “She’s multifaceted, multitalented and 
overall super cool,” he said.  “She is ex-tremely passionate about the quality of her products and truly wants everyone to enjoy them.”
  Goldring has sold out at every market 
she’s participated in. Her “Pumpkin-Pa-looza” event, which included baked goods solely with pumpkin ﬂ  avors, sold out in less than an hour, she said.
  “Meeting your customers face to face and 
having that kind of connection is great,” Goldring said. “I like them saying ‘I can’t wait to eat this,’ or ‘This is really cool,’ like the pumpkin pie on a stick that I had at my Pumpkin-Palooza.”
  Aside from track and baking, Goldring 
goes to school full time, writes a blog and works part time as a scooper at The Gelato Company. 
  “I’m just really good at time manage-
ment,” Goldring said. “It’s all about ﬂ  exibil-ity and making it work and having realistic expectations on how long things take.”
  And she’s starting to get recognition for 
her hard work. 
  “A couple girls came into Hillel and 
asked for Becca Bakes,” Goldring said. “People in the farmers market circuit know who I am now, and I just kind of have made a name for myself among this little town, and I hope to grow with it.”    
Becca Goldring also writes a blog for the  
Alligator, Chomp and Chew.  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 11
THANKSGIVING WEEKEND!
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26 • MIZNER PARK AMPHITHEATER
Charge By Phone: 800-745-3000. All dates, 
acts and ticket prices subject to change without 
notice. Ticket prices subject to applicable fees.
STUDENT RUSH! THIS WEEKEND ONLY - GET YOUR 311 TICKETS FOR $31.10!
FRIDAY, NOV. 18 AT 10 AM - SUNDAY, NOV. 20 AT 10 PM
 Dana Burke / Alligator 
  Becca Goldring, 21-year-old UF student athlete on the Gators track and ﬁ  eld team, 
holds up a peanut butter pie, a Becca Bakes treat she made for a friend’s birthday.  Becca Bakes: UF track athlete shines with sweets blog 12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
Michael Eaddy / Alligator 
Tiny Tim (Whitney Humphrey) and Scrooge (Rusty Salling) starred in the 
2009 production of  “A Christmas Carol.” 
Aryanna Harrell / Alligator 
Critter and character hats line the walls of Spencer’s in the Oaks 
Mall.
� THE HIPPODROME’S PRODUCTION OPENS 
NOV. 26 AND RUNS THROUGH DEC. 17. 
KIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer
When you walk down the third floor hallway 
of the Hippodrome Theatre, shoes greet you.
About 40 pairs are neatly lined up against the 
right side of the hallway, hiding the polished 
wooden floor. Brown boots to black flats ranging from kid to adult sizes are placed next to each other in rows because there is not enough room in the costume shop.
“You really know it’s ‘A Christmas Carol’ 
when you go up on the third floor and the shoes are lining the hallway,” said Sara Morsey, nine-year director of the play. “I’m always excited to see the shoes.”
“A Christmas Carol” begins at the Hippo-
drome for the general public Nov. 26 at 2 p.m. and ends Dec. 17 at 4 p.m. The production, told through the eyes of Jacob Marley’s ghost, runs about one hour and 10 minutes.
It has been performed annually since 1978. 
Rusty Salling has been in every production and has played Scrooge since 1990. 
“Rusty is ‘A Christmas Carol,’” Morsey said. 
“You don’t think about doing it without him.”
Salling first got involved with the play be-
cause it was a job opportunity.
“[Actors] live and breathe to get out on that 
stage and perform,” he said. “It feels like it’s something I was born to do. Some people pick up a musical instrument and can almost play it by themselves, and they love it instantly. That’s sort of what acting is to me.”Scrooge allows Salling to go through every 
emotion onstage. 
“He starts off being the worst person you’d 
ever want to meet in the world,” he said, “and ends up being the most wonderful person you’ll ever want to meet.”
After 20 years, Salling does not have prob-
lems learning the lines or performing the role. He does get physically tired because Scrooge is in almost every scene. It is not easy, but it is very comfortable and exhilarating, he said.
He does not have to audition for the role any-
more. Almost half of the 60-member cast, about 30 of which are children, have been in the show for years, he said. Some children have started out as Tiny Tim and have grown into adult parts.
The Hippodrome casts several children for 
each role to avoid too many school absentees for one child. This year there are four Tiny Tims.
“I never know who’s going to come out on 
that crutch,” Salling joked. “That keeps you on your toes.”
Many families and children go see the play 
each year. It is great to perform for children be-cause they believe, Salling said. 
Morsey said “A Christmas Carol” is something 
people in Gainesville remember from when they were young. They bring their children to see it because they want the tradition to continue.
“You never know what’s going to happen 
year to year,” she said. “It’s always brand new. Every time you do it, it has to be the very best time because someone’s only going to get to see it once. You’re going to make that memory hap-pen.”
For tickets and more information, visit the-
hipp.org. ‘A Christmas Carol’ holds tradition
ARYANNA HARRELL
Avenue Writer 
First spotted on the streets 
of New York and Los Ange-
les on celebrities such as Khloe Kardashian Odom, critter hats have scurried their way down to Gainesville. And with cold weather around the corner (fin-gers crossed), they’ll have a warm welcome.
Critter hats feature animal and 
character faces with correspond-ing ears on top. 
Some have long, flapped sides 
with slots featuring paw prints for your hands, and some are beanie-like with short, braided strands with pompoms attached to the ends. Some even have matching mittens. Faces on the hats range from tigers and bears to turtles and raccoons. 
The trend trickled down from 
the Northeast and West Coast and has quickly become a new fashion statement, especially among college students.
“I just love the hats,” said Ian 
Aranca, a 19-year-old psychology junior. “Anyone can wear them, as long they have no shame.”
Aranca is sporting his second 
critter hat of the year, featuring one of his favorite Digimon char -
acters, Terriermon. His first was a panda hat, similar to the one singer Pink was seen wearing last winter.
Although they have largely 
been popular with college stu-dents, people from preteens to senior citizens are sporting the furry accessories this fall and winter.
“These hats are a new way for 
people to express themselves and stay young,” said Shanna Swiers, the 25-year-old store manager at Spencer’s in the Oaks Mall. “Ev-eryone loves them.”
Swiers said the store has seen 
a huge demand for the hats this fall. She estimates having sold about 100 this fall alone and ex-pects to sell more once the weath-er gets colder.
A new kiosk in the Oaks Mall, 
NYS Collection, has a large vari-ety of critter hats, said store man-ager, Denisha Williams, 27. 
“The hats are going very 
quickly,” Williams said. 
The NYS Collection store 
came from Oklahoma, where the hats have been popular for quite some time, she said. In the three weeks since the 
store’s opening, she has sold hats mainly to people between the ages of 15 and 24.
“It’s a way to be different,” 
she said. “Everyone has a favor -
ite animal, and nine times out of 10, you can find it on one of the hats.”
Williams said she has even 
sold the hats to older men be-tween the ages of 50 and 60.
One reason that these hats are 
becoming so popular is because of their versatility. 
Because there are so many 
different styles and animals to choose from, anyone with a head on his or her shoulders can wear one.
“They’re just really fun,” said 
Deana Diaz, 27-year-old store manager at Zumiez in the Oaks Mall. “People with any style can wear them.”
J.C. Penney, Walmart and Tar -
get are also selling these trendy critter hats. The hats are priced anywhere from $10 to $35, de-pending on the style.
No matter your age or bud-
get, whether you want to prance around in a tiger hat or keep warm in a lion headdress, you can do so without being judged.
 “We are all children at heart,” 
Aranca said.
Critter hat trend prowls around campus, Oaks Mall stores 
“Everyone has a favorite 
animal, and nine times out 
of 10, you can find it on 
one of the hats.”
Denisha Williams
store manager of NYS CollectionfashionTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
CARNIVAL FOR A CURE
Nov 18th from 12-4pm
3 & 4 bds starting @ $349
$0 to sign!
CARNIVAL Food, Games & Prizes!
Sign 4 Spring  352.379.9300
11-18-11-6-1
1/1 in a 2/2 for rent at The Enclave $595 all 
inclusive, Building A right by the entrance! subleasing ASAP email will atwcolina17@gmail.com for more info    11-17-11-2-1
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600$99 Move In Special!352-372-7555FrederickGardens.com12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 4352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1480/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    12-7-11-34-2
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
12-7-11-33-2SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2
Close to UF, $570/month 2BR with 
2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098    11-18-11-15-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155012-7-11-19-2
LIVE CLOSE. PAY LESS.
PARKING GALORE. One mile to UF.Roomy 1, 2 & 3 bedrooms. W/D avail.H2O&gas incld. Cheap GRU bills.Country Village 373.2700    11-17-7-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    12-7-11-18-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381    12-7-11-15-2
4br,2ba home off SW 13th St.,Kirkwood 
$1,250 rent. First,last and deposit. Looking for professional Students or single family. willing to rent long term. Contact-John at 352-278-4124. between 9am-5pm, Mon.-Fri.    11-21-11-4-2
1BR/1BA-Avail Now-NO Sec Deposit
$625/mo Close to Archer Rd, UF/Shands816sqft, $35/App Fee: Tennis Courts, Laundry & Gym: Cats & Small Dogs OkContact Julie via email: jmf1001@gmail.com    11-22-11-5-2Newly renovated very clean, spacious prop-
erty near everything in NW area available for lease. Laundry room, lots of storage space, central H/Ac, fireplace, much more. $890/mo. Call 352-375-6754 or 352-495-6250   1-9-11-15-2
Get an entire 2/2 apt for only $820/mo avail-
able NOW! Clean, spacious, comfortable inside. Gated community. Access to tanning beds, 24 hr gym, basketball & tennis courts & more. Furnishing available 954-625-5043   12-7-13-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Cabana Beach Sublease 2/2
Available now to Aug 2012,
$509/mo each, Furnished W/Dcall  352-552-1757    11-23-11-14-3
Contact 305-502-6261
2 bedrooms, 2 baths. $515/mo all inclusive and fully furnished. Pet friendly. Available from spring to summer. Apt in Windsor Park.   12-2-10-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    11-23-11-18-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-9-11-14-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDNEED EXTRA CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS? 
WE BUY SMARTPHONES, TABLETS, 
IPODS ,GAMING SYSTEMS*, LAPTOPS, 
&MORE. 6450 SW ARCHER RD BY BEEF 
'O' BRADY'S. TECHMODO 352-872-5881
11-29-7-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10Guitars and Musical InstrumentsNew, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      11-17-11-77-13 
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by The Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 ●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14PROOFREADER
ACT/SAT ADMINISTRATORLINUX ADMINISTRATORGRAPHICS DESIGNERX-PLANE DEVELOPERSOFTWARE DEVELOPERTECH SUPPORTPlease apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment.      12-7-11-16-14
Inactive adults (age 50+) needed to participate 
in a study conducted by the UF GetUpAndGo initiative assessing the accuracy of an ad-vanced pedometer. Compensation provided. Call 336-406-3706 or email FitBit10000@gmail.com   11-18-5-14
DSG Associates, Inc. is looking for
individuals to participate in apaid online research study. Sign up for free atwww.dsgai.com orcall 800-462-8765 today!    11-21-5-14
Sanford Office looking for General Dentist 
to work with a great team. Part-Time(one-two days a week)Position available as soon as possible. fax Resume to (407) 324-9229    1-10-11-17-14
Admin asst for local accountant
Organized, reliable,friendly Duties: phone, mail, bankingfiling. Transportation a must10hrs/wk 7.35/hr possible raiseSend resume: info@fratmgmt.com   11-21-11-5-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7064    1-9-11-16-14
P/T babysitter wanted, for four children age 
2-9, various hours available, $12/hr. must be reliable, patient, energetic, and have experi-ence with children as young as 2. Email re-sume and references tonannyforfam@gmail.com.    11-18-11-3-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230   12-1-11-10-14
SALES REPS WANTED for AT&T Retailer
FT Position/Sales Experience a must!  Email Resume to TereseMallary@attwizard.com or APPLY IN PERSON:3720 NW 13TH ST    11-21-11-3-14
Web developers and marketing interns 
wanted by established online retailer. Please send your cover letter, resume and/or portfo-lio of works to robinw@threadpit.com or call 352-371-6536 for more information.    11-23-11-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
12-7-78-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.    11-22-30-21
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: WOMAN'S WATCH
at UF band practice area at the Pony Field 
on Sunday 11/13. Call to identify 336-5808    11-17-3-25
LOST!! 2011 NCAA Women's Tennis 
Championship ring. searched everywhere! Men's style with large blue F surrounded by crystals. Stored in small black box - last seen near Looking Glass apartments. Reward! lauramather@comcast.net    11-28-11-7-25Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi-vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Best religion? NO religion!
Get to know your Creator.See why the Bible is uniqueTry You Tube: "Chuck Missler What is Truth Session 2" from 48:00 mins to 1:08;00  11-18-11-8-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
White, male, mid-50's, brown hair, blue eyes, 
5'9", good-looking. ex-biker, vet. Fighting cancer. New here. Scared, lonely. Need nice lady to enjoy some time, fun and maybe more. 352-328-2096   11-23-11-5-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Healthy Start of North Central Florida
Colalition Annual Meeting
Thursday, November 17th, 2011 at 2:00PM
WellFlorida Counciil, Gainesville, Florida
The public is invited
Please call Heather Hollingsworth
@ 352-313-6500 ext. 119
if you need more information
11-17-4-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Podcast Today
For a preview of Saturday’s game against Furman, log on to 
alligatorSports.org or iTunes this afternoon for the newest version of our podcast in its new Thursday time slot. Sophomore point guard Jaterra Bonds has struggled in the Gators’ first two games, and the team is looking for more from her today against FSU. See story, page 19. 
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Offensive lineman Dan Wenger will not 
play Saturday against Furman because of 
an ankle injury, coach Will Muschamp said Wednesday . 
Wenger, a sixth-year senior who played 
for offensive coordinator Charlie Weis and position coach Frank V erducci at Notre Dame, has brought a veteran presence to a young line this year. He has started every game, mostly at left guard. With inconsis-tency at center the week before, Wenger made his senior debut at the position against South Carolina.
Sophomore Jonotthan Harrison and ju-
nior Sam Robey are splitting time at cen-ter during practices this week, Muschamp said, and sophomore Kyle Koehne will play left guard.
The status of three other Gators remains 
up in the air. Offensive tackle Chaz Green (ankle) and defensive lineman Leon Orr (shoulder) are questionable while lineback-er Lerentee McCray (shoulder) is “ques-tionable at best,” Muschamp said. McCray suffered the injury Oct. 29 against Georgia, and his shoulder has not responded well to rehab.
Disciplining Dominique: The coach-
ing staff is using all available resources to preach pre-snap discipline to Florida de-fensive linemen. Coordinator Dan Quinn was asked Wednesday if working with fiery defensive tackle Dominique Easley presented a unique challenge.
When he is not dancing, Easley spends 
much of his time between plays jawing with whoever happens to be his opponent that week. Easley is also noted for his quick first step, which sometimes comes at a cost.
Easley has committed an offside           
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida senior offensive lineman Dan Wenger (56) will not play Saturday against 
Furman after suffering an injury to his ankle during last week’s loss. 
Wenger out for Furman game with ankle injury
See NoteBook, p Age 18
Is Walker UF’s best option at point guard?
Matt: Despite a loss to Ohio State 
on Tuesday , it’s clear this Florida basketball team is going to be 
very good this season. 
It’s entirely possible this year’s squad is 
better than the team that went to the Elite Eight a season ago. But the Gators are be-ing held back by one small problem: Erv-ing Walker.
The diminutive point guard was “man-
handled” and “physically beat up” by Buckeyes’ point man Aaron Craft. And those are Billy Donovan’s words, not mine.
Walker’s aggressiveness has long been an issue, and last night it 
cost the Gators the game. He consistently missed passes to guys on the wing waiting for wide-open looks, instead choosing to drive wildly and force a shot.
That’s been his modus operandi since Day 1, and it will con-
tinue to haunt Florida as long as he’s in the lineup.Greg: I think you’re blowing Erv’s strug-
gles a little bit out of proportion here.
I can’t defend the plays when he drove 
into the lane without a plan and left his feet without any options, but at the end of the night he only had three turnovers. Flash-backs to last year aside, that’s not a terrible number when compared to his four assists.
And, while his shooting was definitely 
off, he displayed a high level of basket-
ball intelligence by only attempting six shots, at least four fewer than the other three players who logged 25 minutes or more.  
Plus he had Craft, a 2011 Big Ten All-Defensive Team selection, on him the entire game.
He’s a leader, the only senior, and the best blend 
of scoring talent and point ability on the roster.  the RALL y
greg Luca
twitter: @gregluca
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmattsJOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Following Tuesday’s loss to the Buck-
eyes, a rough patch of poor weather way-
laid the Gators’ chances of a timely return to Gainesville.
While the squad was able to catch a new 
flight the next morning, coach Billy Dono-van is now trying to ensure Florida’s prepa-ration for a quick turnaround game tonight at 8 against North Florida won’t also run late.
“This is a real high-level character game 
for us,” Donovan said. “North Florida is a 
physical, hard-playing, compet-itive team. With our flight situa-
tion coming back, having today to get ready … this is an opportunity to see what kind of resolve we have and what our character and makeup is.”
The No. 7 Gators (1-1) came away from 
Columbus, Ohio, and their 81-74 defeat to the third-ranked Buckeyes with a couple of glaring issues — namely 16 turnovers and a 61.9 percent free-throw percentage — to correct in just one practice before hosting the Ospreys (1-1). 
Donovan said even though his players 
had to battle their emotions while trying to claw back from a 16-point deficit in the second half Tuesday, there’s no reason they won’t be ready both physically and men-tally Thursday. 
“The hard part is when you get a one-day 
prep like this, there’s a balance between how much prep work you do and how much you try to work on yourselves,” Donovan said. “Then you also have to look at the minutes that certain guys logged during the course of the game (and) the travel.”
Florida’s leader in time on the court 
and scoring against Ohio State was fresh-man guard Brad Beal, who finished with 17 points in 34 minutes but was hampered by a 6-for-16 shooting performance.
In his first matchup against guards from 
a ranked team, Beal committed a game-high No. 7 Florida  
facing quick 
turnaround 
against UNF
See hoopS, p Age 20UF Bask etball
See RALL y, pAge 20
Quotable
“He’d talk trash to you if you came out 
there.” 
Omar Hunter   
UF defensive lineman
(on Dominique Easley)
penalty the last two weeks, includ-
ing in a pivotal moment against South Carolina. Trailing by five with less than four minutes left Satur -
day, Easley jumped offside. Florida did not get the ball back for another three minutes.
“I’d say he listens to us,” Quinn 
said. “Is he wanting to (jump off-side)? No. Is it undisciplined foot-ball? Absolutely . And are we the ones responsible for that? Yeah. Be-tween the two of us, we’re going to get it right.”
D-line depth: Quinn said Flori-
da’s thin defensive line has held the group back, and not just because the team has a smaller rotation than it wants. 
The defensive linemen aren’t able 
to practice as long as Quinn wants to because of a lack of depth. Also, there are not enough players fight-ing for playing time.
“That’s an issue for us, in terms 
of the depth, just because you love that competition factor. From a depth standpoint, sometimes it al-lows you to play more players when they gain the experience and that kind of thing. But at this point, it is what it is.”
Junior defensive tackle Omar 
Hunter said the group also isn’t facing good enough competition in practice. The starting linemen on both sides of the ball don’t face each other as much as they have in years past because both groups are so thin.
“As far as going against the scout 
team, going with the (starters) is bet-ter because they give you a better look,” Hunter said. “It’s more com-petition.”
Story to redshirt: Muschamp ex-pects at least four true freshmen to receive redshirts this season: wide receiver Ja’Juan Story , defensive back Valdez Showers, and offensive linemen Tommy Jordan and Trip Thurman.Defensive ends Clay Burton and 
Tevin Westbrook are also candidates for medical redshirts, though they each played in games before South-eastern Conference play began. 
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said Wednesday that a lack of 
depth is hurting UF’s defensive line, especially in practice situations.
Lack of depth hurting defensive line
NoteBook,
 from page 17
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Bruce Fowler is no stranger 
to Florida’s football team.
The Paladins’ first-year 
coach served as the defensive 
coordinator and assistant head coach at Vanderbilt for nine seasons before taking the job in Greenville, S.C., in December.
“The key thing is obviously 
just trying to control their speed on offense,” Fowler said Tues-day . “They get the ball on the perimeter. If you break down anywhere, they have a chance to turn a play that could be average into one that’s a really long gain.”
While he has experience 
gameplanning for running backs Chris Rainey and Jeff Demps — Rainey had 136 total yards and a touchdown against Fowler’s Vanderbilt defense last year while Demps ran for 57 and a score in 2009 — Fowl-er’s biggest concern is stopping the Gators’ defensive line.
As the only FBS team on 
Furman’s schedule this season, UF presents an unprecedented matchup problem for a Paladins offensive line that has allowed just 14 sacks in 10 games.
Although Fowler has been 
impressed by what he has seen across Florida’s defensive front, he is also concerned about the matchup between senior right tackle Ryan Lee and Florida’s Sharrif Floyd, who had a career day against Fowler’s Vander -bilt team last season with five tackles, including two and a half for a loss.
“Their front three guys and 
their whole front is very athlet-ic,” Fowler said. “They’re big; they move exceptionally well; they pressure people well, but they’re good in the run game.”
Florida’s athleticism could 
make for a long day for quar -
terback Chris Forcier.
Forcier leads the FCS with 
a 180.9 rating, completing 65.4 percent of his passes for 2,099 yards and 22 touchdowns. 
With his 
next touch-down pass, Forcier will pass former F u r m a n quarterback Ingle Mar -
tin, who transferred 
from UF after the 2003 season, for the school record for pass-ing touchdowns in a season.
But to do that against a tough 
Florida defense and in front of the biggest crowd the Paladins have seen all season, Fowler knows his team will have to ex-ecute, something it couldn’t do in a loss to Elon last week.
“The excitement around the 
game will obviously get our juices flowing,” Fowler said. “We’re still going to have to execute really well and do the things down after down that it takes to win games.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@
alligator.org.Furman coach Fowler 
familiar with Florida 
Fowler
 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
David Carr / Alligator
UF outside hitter Kristy Jaeckel has become a more complete player in her 
senior season. She had 30 digs and 24 kills in two games last weekend.
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
On most days, Kristy Jaeckel 
is one of Florida’s most domi-
nant and important offensive weapons. 
The redshirt senior outside 
hitter has 88 more kills than anyone else on the Gators’ vol-leyball team. She has also taken 210 more swings than any of her teammates. 
But in her final season, 
Jaeckel is not satisfied with having the hardest swing on the court or just being the play-er setters constantly look for. She has turned her focus to be-ing a more complete player. 
“You love it when seniors 
are working that hard to im-prove that aspect of their game,” coach Mary Wise said. 
As Florida nears the conclu-
sion of its regular season and the dawn of a final postseason for a five-deep senior class, Jaeckel’s all-around play seems to be peaking. 
Last weekend, she turned in 
two of the best defensive per -
formances of her career. On Fri-day night against LSU, Jaeckel picked up a career-high 20 digs, eclipsing her previous high of 16 that she registered earlier this season against Stanford. 
“Can’t say enough about 
Kristy Jaeckel,” Wise said. “She never got on track really, of-fensively. She had some good looks. The ball just didn’t fall for her. … But she just battled with those 20 digs to help us win that [match] in four (sets).”
Two days later, Jaeckel 
clicked offensively and defen-sively. She led the team with 19 kills and 22.5 points, while also managing 10 digs and two blocks. 
Her play has not only been 
polished on the defensive side of the ball; Jaeckel has also be-come a more versatile offensive player, increasing her serve ef-ficiency and transitional pass-ing game. 
Jaeckel’s serving has been 
crucial for the Gators during the past month. Beginning with a career-high seven service aces against South Carolina on Oct. 19, she has been a vital piece when it comes to starting runs for the Southeastern Confer -
ence’s most efficient offense. 
“Kristy has just been work-
ing on her toss, and now she’s really getting into a rhythm,” fellow senior outside hitter Stephanie Ferrell said. “It’s always been there. She’s al-ways had a great serve, but I think she’s just getting on a roll now.”
Teammates have attributed 
part of the Gators’ current stretch of 12 wins in 14 games to an increased emphasis on aggressive serving in practice, something Jaeckel has benefit-ed from greatly. 
Wise sees Jaeckel’s contribu-
tions in an expanded number of areas as a sign of maturity for a player she said once would damage opportunities with er -
rors and misfires. 
“Kristy’s playing like a fifth-
year senior who has got a lot of volleyball ahead of her,” she said. 
“No doubt she’ll be playing 
somewhere starting in January overseas and enjoying a differ -
ent kind of lifestyle than a col-lege student.”
Jaeckel working on all-around game� THE SOPHOMORE COMMITTED SEVEN 
TURNOVERS AND SHOT A TEAM-WORST .111 IN THE GATORS’ FIRST TWO GAMES.
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
When Jaterra Bonds’ shots fail to fall, the turn-
overs become more noticeable.
Bonds has seven giveaways — three more than 
any other Gator — to go along with a team-worst 
.111 shooting percentage in Florida’s first two games this season.
In last season’s opener against UCF, she turned 
the ball over seven times, but 15 points and a dou-ble-digit margin of victory made her blemishes eas-ier to overlook.
“I’ve got to just stick to the basics with my shot,” 
Bonds said. “I just go back and think about what I didn’t do when I shot and if I rushed or if I forced it.”
Bonds was named to the Southeastern Confer -
ence All-Freshman team last season after a breakout performance for the Gators. 
She ranked second on UF with 9.9 points and 2.5 
assists per game, playing an average of 27.1 min-utes per contest.
Particularly promising was her offensive surge 
at the end of the 2010-11 campaign.
Bonds averaged 14.9 points per contest in Flor -
ida’s final eight games, scoring a career-high 23 in the season-ending 81-77 overtime loss to Charlotte in the Women’s National Invitation Tournament.
Unfortunately for the Gators, Bonds’ hot streak 
did not carry into the season opener.
In Friday’s loss to Michigan, she shot 2 of 15 
from the field, including a 1-for-6 performance from beyond the arc, with the lone make coming at the buzzer.
She also recorded just two assists and committed 
three turnovers in 31 minutes on the floor.
“She took a lot of shots that both of us agreed 
were not really good shots,” coach Amanda Butler said. 
“It’s tough when you’re a playmaker and a scor -
er … to sometimes just try not to make plays if it’s the best decision.”
Bonds’ performance against Stetson didn’t fare 
much better.
Hampered by foul trouble, Bonds attempted a 
career-low three shots Monday, scoring only four points with one assist and four turnovers in 25 min-utes.
According to senior guard Jordan Jones, Bonds 
has spent extra time watching film with Butler to 
pinpoint where she needs to improve offensively.
“She took some questionable shots that we saw 
and she just needs to let the game come to her,” Jones said. “In practice, she’s not struggling … (her) shots are going to fall.”
Despite stumbling out of the gate, Bonds’ pro-
gression between her first two games has encour -
aged Butler.
Florida (1-1) hopes that progress will continue 
when it faces No. 21 Florida State (2-1) today at 5:30 p.m. in the O’Connell Center.
“One of the things I’ve really asked her to do is 
to not evaluate her success based on her scoring,” Butler said.
“(She should) evaluate her success based on the 
way she’s playing defense, the way she’s leading our team and the decisions she’s making.”Bonds struggling as UF preps for FSU
UF Women’s Bask etball
“You love it when 
seniors are working that 
hard to improve that as-
pect of their game.”
Mary Wise
UF coachShe leads team in killsDavid Carr / Alligator 
Florida guard Jaterra Bonds ranked second on the Gators with 9.9 
points per game last season, but has struggled early on this year. 20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman guard Brad Beal (left) struggled against Ohio State on Tuesday, making just six of his 
16 attempts from the floor and turning the ball over five times in the 81-74 loss to the Buckeyes. 
Besides, who are your other options?
Matt: Donovan talked Wednesday about 
one of UF’s most pressing issues coming out 
of the loss to Ohio State: distributing the ball.
Patric Young, who ended with a double-
double on 5-of-10 shooting, had just two at-tempts in the first half Tuesday because Walk-er wasn’t looking his way . He also ignored a red-hot Erik Murphy in the early going after Murphy drained three straight threes.
“We’ve got to have a better offensive recog-
nition of what’s going on,” Donovan said.
That’s a direct reflection on Walker, and, 
yes, there are plenty of other options.
Walker played major roles the last two sea-
sons because the Gators didn’t have any other choice, but that has changed. Brad Beal and Kenny Boynton have the ability to average four dishes per game, and they’re much better scoring options and defenders than Walker.
Walker has shown that he’s not a great 
point guard, and when there are players on the roster that can bring the same thing from the point, but much more in other areas, then why not play them?
Greg: Walker may not be a true point 
guard, but he’s much, much closer than Beal or Boynton will ever be. Those two are certain-ly shoot-first players, as shown by their com-bined 26 shot attempts, two assists and eight turnovers against Ohio State.
Erv’s height will keep him from ever being 
an elite defender, but he became a much better distributor as last season went on.
Through the end of December, his assist-to-
turnover ratio was exactly 1-to-1, but in games after the New Year, he notched 87 assists to just 49 turnovers, a ratio of 1.8-to-1.
He’s only getting better at this point, and trying to introduce someone different now can only slow the development of chemistry between Florida’s many talented pieces.
Matt: Florida doesn’t have any chemistry 
developed yet. That’s why it’s time to experi-ment with different lineups that don’t feature Walker in a prominent role.
Walker, just like Beal and Boynton, is a 
shoot-first guy . But unlike Walker, they should always be on the floor.
Walker plays merely because he’s “Big Shot 
Erv,” and he has a reputation and status in the program. But the truth is that even sophomore Scottie Wilbekin is a better option at the point.
UF looked best Tuesday when Wilbekin 
ran the show. The spin pass he made from the top of the key into Young was the best pass from a Gator since Nick Calathes left, and ex-actly the type Walker simply cannot make.
Florida has plenty of scoring, but what the 
team needs is someone who can see the floor and distribute the ball — that’s not Walker.
Greg: Forget experimentation. Florida al-
ready knows who its best option at the point is, and that’s Walker.
All the Wilbekin love has gotten way out 
of hand. He was certainly solid last year, but he offers nothing as a scorer and his 16.4 assist rating — the percentage of teammate baskets he assisted on when he was on the floor — was 3.7 percentage points lower than Walker’s.
The biggest thing, and you said it, Matt, is 
that he is “Big Shot Erv.”
When the game is on the line, Walker is the 
guy who beats the press, draws the foul and seals the game. That is, when he’s not draining 30-footers to send the game to overtime, like he did against Georgia last year.
Wilbekin, Beal and Boynton can’t do that. 
That’s why Walker is UF’s man at the point. 
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org 
and Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.
RALL y, from page 17
Donovan: Beal’s struggles  
a good learning experience
five turnovers.
“For him as a freshman, going 
through this was a good experi-
ence,” Donovan said. “He has a lot of growth to make just in terms of the physicality, the speed, the quickness of the game — just how competitive it is in that kind of en-vironment.”
Ohio State sophomore point 
guard Aaron Craft, who scored 13 points and led both teams with three steals, harassed Beal all game.  
Along with seven assists and 
three rebounds, Craft blocked Beal’s first shot attempt and stripped the ball from the fresh-man as he was driving down the lane late in the first half.
“He dominated all of us like 
coach Donovan said,” Beal said. “Everybody from Craft to (Wil-liam) Buford to Lenzelle Smith, all the guards off the bench, ev-erybody contributed in some type of way. We were caught off guard at times where we weren’t guard-ing the ball well enough and they just really played better than our guards.”
Though the Gators are unlikely 
to see the same kind of pressure tonight, the Ospreys caused more turnovers than they committed in a 62-57 win against Savannah State and a 20-point road loss to Alabama. 
“(Tuesday is) over,” Donovan 
said. 
“The biggest thing for me right 
now as a coach today is what did we learn? What needs to be learned? … Try to understand that (it’s a) different team, quick turnaround, what kind of mental approach are we going to have go-ing into this?”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.HOOpS , from page 17
“We were caught off 
guard at times where we 
weren’t guarding the ball 
well enough and they just 
really played better than our 
guards.”
Brad Beal
UF guard