VOLUME 106 ISSUE 48 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Study ﬁ  nds gay men have more trouble securing jobs
Resume references to sexuality have negative effects, pg 3.  
Doors creak open for on-campus haunted houses
Dorms, area governments host Halloween attractions, pg 4. 
85/63
For original 
yet cheap DIY          
Halloween costumes, 
check out today’s 
Avenue. See story, 
Page  9. 
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6THE AVENUE  8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17 Alex Catalano / Alligator
  Puppy Love
  Dave Bittle holds two young Chihuahua mixes named Roxanne and Charro on Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza on Wednesday. Bittle sells the puppies at the Union Street Farmers Market and said they have all of their shots. 
ON CAMPUS
  ADRIANNA PAIDAS
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Last week, Ashleigh Barraca found herself 
awkwardly laughing while standing alone in line at Starbucks in the Hub. 
  The 20-year-old English junior noticed the 
TV on the wall directly in front of Starbucks showing the comedy “Bridesmaids.”
  “They were playing the scene where the 
girls are trying on dresses and they all start vomiting and pooping because of the food they ate,” Barraca said. “I was surprised they were showing it, but it was nice to have a movie on while standing there.” 
  But starting this week, Barraca will have 
to ﬁ  nd a midday movie laugh elsewhere. The eight Resident TV movies shown in the Hub this semester will no longer be played.
  Resident TV is the resident-hall channel 
that is owned and operated by the UF Depart-ment of Housing and Residence Education. Until Tuesday, the department was unaware that the channel was being played in the Hub, said Amy Jorgensen, marketing coordinator for the housing department.
  Resident TV is only to be played in campus 
housing locations, Sharon Blansett, assistant to the associate vice president for student af-
fairs, said in an email. 
  “The feed was misdirect-
ed,” Blansett said. “This has been corrected.” 
  Criminology and psy-
chology freshman Brittany Sealey, 19, was bummed the 
Resident TV movies will no longer be shown in the Hub.
  “‘Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 
Part One’ was playing while I was there the other day, and I got really excited it was on,” Sealey said. “It’s lame they aren’t showing them here anymore.”  Hub to stop showing movies 
from Resident TV channel  � THE COMPANY’S STOCK HAS 
FALLEN 35 PERCENT.
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  After announcing a price hike and service 
change, Netﬂ  ix watched as thousands of its subscribers called it quits.
   When Netlix announced it was going to 
move all multimedia-mailing to a new Net-ﬂ  ix-owned website called Qwikster, 800,000 subscribers canceled their accounts. 
  Now, subscribers pay $15.98 a month for 
one DVD at a time by mail and unlimited in-stant streaming service, or they pay $7.99 a month for just one of the two. That’s up from the previous price of $9.99 a month for both services.
  The drop in subscribers caused Netﬂ  ix 
stock to plummet 35 percent and cost the  Netﬂ  ix members jump 
ship after price changes 
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
  Paying off student loans is about to be-
come less of a headache.
  In an exercise of the regulatory ex-
ecutive power, President Barack Obama 
announced Wednesday an initiative to reduce the amount of student loan debt — now second to mortgages as the largest source of household debt. 
  Under Obama’s “We Can’t Wait” cam-
paign, a series of executive regulations that will be implemented without congres-sional authority, student loans took a high priority.  The new program will go into effect in 
2012 and will allow about 1.6 million stu-dents with government loans to cap their annual payments at 10 percent of their discretionary income as reported on their taxes. If the full loan has not been paid off after 20 years, the remaining balance will be dissolved.  Currently, students can cap their pay-
ments at 15 percent of their income, and their loans will be forgiven after 25 years.
  White House domestic policy adviser 
Melody Barnes said these changes will not cost tax payers any additional money.
  There are about 450,000 graduates en-
rolled in the current income-based repay-ment program, a number Barnes said she hopes to see increase with the implemen- Obama introduces initiatives to help students manage loans
Payments would cap off at 10 percent of incomeSEE NETFLIX, PAGE 5
SEE LOANS, PAGE 5Blansett
Gators adjusting defense
Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said Wednesday 
that UF has made some changes to the playbook on defense, pg. 17. News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 48 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Amber Hughes, 
  Allison Klempert, Kyle Mueller,   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber
, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
RAIN
76/55PARTLY
CLOUDY
75/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/50RAIN
79/60PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/63
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
Her Campus Halloween Cookies 
& Raffle Event
Today, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasParticipants will receive free cookies and a chance to win a gift package including a $30 gift card to Victoria’s Secret. Winner will be announced at 2 p.m. Event is open to the public. 
Asian-Americans in the Media: 
Real Life vs. Reel LifeToday, 5 to 7 p.m.Reitz Union Matthews SuiteCome to “Asian-Americans in the Media: Real Life vs. Reel Life” to learn more about the effects of Asian-American ste-reotypes in the media. Special guest Phil Yu, of the “Angry Asian Man” blog, will lead a workshop to educate at-tendees on different ways to react to these media in-stances. See www.ufakmonth.
com  for more information. 
Student Investment Club and 
Red Mango DiscountToday, 7:15 p.m. Turlington Hall L005Come and join the Student Investment Club (SIC) for its weekly meeting. SIC offers weekly market updates, in-formative presentations on all types of investments, intern-ship opportunities, and more. All majors are encouraged to attend. Immediately after the meeting, Red Mango on University (inside the Target Copy) will be offering a 10 percent discount for all cus-tomers from SIC. Simply say you’re with SIC to get the dis-count.
Jihad and Women: Demystifying 
IslamToday, 7:30 to 8:30 p.m.Matherly 0112Come join Islam On Campus as it seeks to demystify two misunderstood concepts in the Islamic faith: the role of women and the concept of jihad. Bring thoughts, ideas and questions to the table for a enlightening evening of learning. For more informa-tion, please visit www.isla-moncampus.com, or find the group on Facebook as “Islam On Campus- UF.”
Gay Movie Night — Strapped
Friday, 7:30 p.m.Pride Community Center, 3131 NW 13th St. A handsome, young hustler learns about life and love dur -
ing a sex-filled odyssey in an apartment building filled with strange inhabitants. Free. Two-dollar donation for snacks. Find more info at: gainesvillepride.org/gaymo -
vienight.phpASU Scholarship Pageant
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand BallroomContestants will compete to hold the honorary title of Mr. or Ms. Africa while guests indulge themselves in an el-egant and entertaining night of glamour and the arts. This pageant will allow people to experience a variety of cul-tures through different medi-ums such as dance, attire and poetry. This event is free and open to the public. For more information about the African Student Union, please contact us at ufafrisu@gmail.com, or visit our website at asuatuf.
com
Educational Access Summit
Thursday, 6:30 to 9 p.m.
Reitz Union Rion BallroomCome out to the Educational Access Summit, hosted by the Gators’ College Access Network (C.A.N.). UF Students from first genera-tion college, low income and diverse backgrounds are invited to discuss ways the University of Florida can best reach out to improve their college experience. The event features keynote speakers Zina Evans, vice president for enrollment management and associate provost, and Joe Johnson, assistant director of OAS. Sponsored by Student Government, OAP , OAS and MCDA. Free Admission. For more information, visit the The Educational Access Facebook event page. 
A Legislative Preview
Nov. 9, 6 p.m.
Pugh HallMary Ellen Klas, Tallahassee bureau chief of the Miami Herald, will provide a jour -
nalistic preview of the up-coming legislative session and the impact of the redistricting process. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. The deadline for submission is 5 p.m. the day before the event. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. Submissions are not 
guaranteed publication.Angels & Devils Autism 
Fundraiser Dance and Costume PartyFriday, 7:30 p.m. to mid-nightGainesville Dance and Music Association308 W University Ave.Be an angel for autism, but a devil on the dance floor. Come out for a night of scary fun and help raise money for the UF Center for Autism & Related Disabilities.Two-time U.S. Open Swing champion Patti Jobst will be teaching an hour-long lesson for $5, followed by a night of dancing for a minimum donation of $10. There will be two dance floors featur -
ing West Coast swing music and a mix of Latin, ballroom, blues and swing. There will also be Halloween costume contests with prizes for the scariest, funniest and most inventive costumes.
Exhale with MCDA & Gator 
NightsFriday, 9 to 11 p.m.
Orange & BrewExhale is an open mic poetry night that aims to get people excited about poetry in all its various forms. The event commences with an open mic session that leads into a performance by a featured guest artist, Beau Sia.  If you 
are interested in performing during the open mic session, there will be a sign up right before the event so please show up early. See www.
ufakmonth.com for more in-
formation. 
Slack key guitarist Jeff 
Peterson to perform at 
Phillips Center 
Sunday, 2 p.m.Squitieri Studio Theatre (located inside the Phillips Center)Maui native Jeff Peterson has contributed to two Grammy-winning albums and worked with artists such as Eric Clapton, James Galway and Michael Feinstein. Five of his songs will be featured in George Clooney’s upcom-ing film “The Descendants.” Student tickets are $12. Visit performingarts.ufl.edu for 
more information.
Halloween Trick-or-Treat 
Party 
Sunday,  3 p.m. Sterling House of Gaineville  4601 NW 53rd Ave. The event will feature games, candy and live en-tertainment.
MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
� THEY HAVE SMALLER CHANCE 
OF SECURING INTERVIEWS.
VALERIA DELGADO 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Anthony Castro, 19, worries participat-
ing in Pride Student Union and LGBT Affairs 
could hurt his chances of getting a job after graduation.
The anthropology sophomore said he was 
concerned by the results of a Harvard study , released earlier this month, that suggest open-ly gay men face increased job discrimination.
The study showed that job applicants who 
listed experience in a gay college organization were 40 percent less likely to secure a job inter -
view than those who didn’t. 
“It’s ignorant that employers assume only 
gay people participate in these organizations,” Castro said. “But if putting my experience will hurt my chances of being hired, then my work becomes irrelevant.” 
Harvard researcher Andras Tilcsik sent out 
pairs of counterfeit resumes to more than 1,700 job postings in California, Florida, Nevada, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Texas, ac-cording to American Journal of Sociology’s website.
The resume with a reference to the appli-
cant’s sexuality had a 7.2 percent chance of re-ceiving an interview. The other resume had an 11.5 percent chance. 
The research also found that gay applicants 
were least likely to receive an interview when the job posting called for someone “assertive” 
and “aggressive.” 
Terry Fleming, co-pres-
ident of the Pride Commu-nity Center of North Central Florida, said discrimination in the workplace is unfortu-nate but real. 
Fleming said he was not 
surprised by the results of the study , which showed 
employers in the Southern and Midwestern states were more likely to make interview de-cisions based on sexuality than those in other states. 
“It’s not unusual to see this type of under -
lined discrimination in today’s society ,” he said.Study shows gay men have 
more difficulties getting jobsJUSTIN JONES
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the name of reducing UF’s carbon 
footprint, students on the North Lawn 
learned Wednesday how to fix flat tires on their bikes for UF’s fourth-annual One Less Car Day . 
The Office of Sustainability held the 
event to encourage the use of alternate transportation  such as biking or riding the bus to class.
“We’re considered a very bike-friend-
ly campus,” said 34-year-old Anna Prizz-ia, director of the Office of Sustainability.
About 1,000 people registered to par -
ticipate in One Less Car Day , and the first 800 received free T-shirts. An additional 200 people attended the giveaway near the Reitz Union throughout the two-hour event.
About 50 people attended the event 
last year, according to Alligator archives. 
In past years, students participating 
in the campaign would track their com-mutes each day. The campaign aimed to decrease car use as much as possible. However, this year One Less Car 
Day was just a single-day event that anyone could register for so people who don’t usually use alternative transport wouldn’t feel intimidated, Prizzia said.
“We wanted to figure out a way to en-
courage people to try alternate transpor -
tation,” she said.
Bobby Komrek, a 21-year-old psy-
chology senior, said events like One Less Car Day are good because they focus on renewable energy.
“I think it’s important because when 
you do programs, it makes people aware about what’s going on,” he said.
Even though he wasn’t familiar with 
the event, Komrek said he takes the bus often.
“I would actually rather take the bus 
than drive to campus,” he said. “It’s not as bad as most people think.”One Less Car Day attracts 1,000
Tilcsik
“We’re considered a very 
bike-friendly campus.”
Anna Prizzia 
director of Office of Sustainability4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Sleeping Beauty, Lindsey Wuest, attacked her prince, Nick Parr, in the Sledd Hall base-
ment as part of the “Haunted Thomas” Halloween attraction in 2010. 
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
For a few nights in October, the UF 
dorms are haunted by ghosts, clowns 
and villains. 
Area governments and students in 
Broward Hall, Springs Complex, Beaty Towers and Hume Hall have organized haunted houses to terrify their peers.
Jigsaw, the villain from the “Saw” 
movies, will transform Broward into a large haunted house tonight.
About 150 students from Broward 
and Rawlings Hall volunteered to or -
ganize the event, which will take place from 8 p.m. to midnight today in the Broward basement. 
About 750 students attended last 
year’s haunted house, said Laura Cook, one of the organizers for Haunted Bro-ward.
Hume Hall will open its spooked 
doors at 5:30 p.m. today for 100 kids from the Boys & Girls Club of Alachua County. 
Students can attend the haunted 
house from 8 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
The floors compete to create the best 
haunted house, and the floors with the least-interesting houses will close as the night goes on. 
“We’re keeping the coolest houses 
open the longest,” said Kaitlyn Self, Stu-dent Honors Organization secretary. 
Springs Complex’s Spooky Springs 
and Beaty Towers’ Terrifying Towers were scheduled for Wednesday night. 
Entrance is free at all the haunted 
houses.
Steven Geller, a 19-year-old chemical 
engineering sophomore, went to Haunt-ed Hume last year.
“The best part was seeing the ex-
pressions on people’s faces,” he said.  Doors to on-campus haunted houses creak open this week
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
Although crime was reported to be on 
the decline in Gainesville in 2010, last week 
turned out to be an anomaly with two ho-micides in four days. 
On average, there are four or five homi-
cides a year in Gainesville, said Cpl. Angeli-na Valuri, public information officer for the Gainesville Police Department. 
So far this year, there have been five — 
two of which occurred since last Thursday , Valuri said. 
In 2010, there were four homicides in 
Gainesville. 
“The whole week has been unusual,” 
she said.
The first reported homicide of the week occurred at Cabana Beach apartments, when 22-year-old Theoderick Brown died after being shot 13 times. 
Another homicide was reported early 
Sunday morning when 30-year-old Artrel Dubose was shot in the head during a con-frontation in a downtown parking garage. 
But overall, crime rates are still down 
in Gainesville, Valuri said.
In 2010, crime rates dropped by 16.3 
percent, according to a uniform crime re-
port issued earlier this year by GPD. This included an overall decrease of 21.6 per-cent in violent crimes, with a 9.5 percent drop in rape crimes.
Incidents of sexual assault have reflect-
ed expected rates, Valuri said. One rape has been reported since Oct. 20.Last week saw unusual crime spike with two local homicideson c AmpuS
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
A report from someone who smelled 
gas at the Harn Museum of Art on 
Wednesday ended in a hazardous materi-als team investigating the potential leak, but it turned out to be a false alarm. 
University Police responded to the re-
port at 11:30 a.m.
UPD sent two officers and one super -
visor to investigate, said Major Brad Bar -
ber, UPD public information officer. 
Gainesville Fire Rescue Department 
sent a hazmat team to assess the situa-tion but found no gas leak. 
Standard procedures were followed 
to assess the situation, Barber said. 
Because of the potential gas leak, 
Gainesville Regional Utilities also re-sponded in case there was a need of re-pairs or other aid, he said. 
Calling the fire department is a UF-
mandated precautionary action, said Tami Wroath, director of marketing and public relations at the Harn Museum of 
Art. 
The incident lasted 
about 30 minutes, from the initial report about a potential leak to the determination that none existed, Barber said. 
Different substances 
can mimic the odor of a gas leak, which could have been what someone smelled on the property, he said.  
No one was evacuated from the mu-
seum.Rescue teams respond to gas 
leak scare at Harn Museum“We’re keeping the coolest 
houses open the longest.”
Kaitlyn Self
Student Honors Organization secretary
Wroath
tation of the new Pay As You Earn program.
The average tuition and fees for four-year, 
public universities increased 8.3 percent this 
year, doubling the inflation rate, according to a recent report from College Board.
These increases in tuition across the country 
have left the average graduate with $22,000 in loans, the same report stated.
In an effort to streamline the repayment of 
those loans, Obama also announced an initia-tive that will allow student borrowers to con-solidate multiple loans starting in January.
Under this program, students with multiple 
loans will be able to make payments to a single lender. 
Rick Wilder, interim director for UF’s Office 
of Student Financial Affairs, said consolidating 
students’ multiple loans into one payment plan can only benefit student borrowers.
Once UF students apply 
for financial aid, they are sent a financial aid package detailing which programs they are eligible for. 
This includes a notice 
of loan disclosure that can 
sometimes be confusing for students, Wilder said.
Wilder said he supports programs that are 
geared toward helping students but is con-cerned about the diminishing support for grant programs. For the 2011-2012 school year, Wilder said UF saw a total of $20 million cut from grants and scholarship programs.
“Any time you can help students manage 
their loan indebtedness, that’s a great thing,” he said. “But by supporting grant programs, we could positively impact students’ lives without causing them to go further into debt.”  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Amanda Cohen/Alligator
Come On Everybody
Students form a conga line on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday afternoon as part of a flash mob to promote Gator Growl 
2011.
Some students favor Redbox over Netflix
company an estimated $11 billion, accord-
ing to Bloomberg.
Some students have already found al-
ternatives.
“I would get Netflix,” said Grace Alli-
son, 21, a business administration senior, “but I don’t have time to sit and watch all of it.”
Allison said she uses Redbox twice a 
month on average.She said she watches a lot of her favorite TV shows, such as “Ro-swell,” on YouTube.
For watching currently running shows, 
such as “Glee,” Allison said she uses Hulu.
“I feel like Netflix is for old stuff,” she 
said. “Netflix is for ‘Chitty Chitty Bang Bang’ and ‘Forrest Gump’ and Redbox is for ‘Bridesmaids.’”
She said she and her roommates, even 
the one who subscribes to Netflix, use Redbox for their weekend movie fix. 
“It makes a really great tool for the 
weekends … just Redbox it and get some-thing,” Allison said.
Some just don’t like Netflix.Keertana Settaluri, 18, an electrical 
engineering freshman, said she used to use Netflix and now uses Redbox once a month.She said with Netflix it takes too much 
time to get the DVDs in the mail and Red-box at the Reitz Union is just “super con-venient.”
“I don’t have the constraint to watch 
movies like I do with a monthly subscrip-tion,” Settaluri said.
She said she had Netflix for one year 
before canceling her service.
Jasmin Quinones, 18, a nursing fresh-
man, never used Netflix and only uses Redbox when she’s back home.
Quinones said she doesn’t use Red-
box because she has no television, forgets the Redbox is in town and has no time to watch movies or TV shows anyway. Netflix , from page 1loANs , from page 1Average tuition 
rose about 8.3 percent this year
obama
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Will you have to pay off student loans 
after you graduate?
17% YES
83% NO
40 TOTAL VOTESFriday’s question: Did you go see Shaq at the O’Connell Center on Tuesday? 
Hands Off
Government abuses 
eminent domain
In the U.S., the line between where your property rights end 
and the so-called “public interest” begin have always been a point of contention. 
In one instance, the local government of New London, Conn., 
created a development plan, which they hoped would bring jobs to the town. 
The city invoked the Fifth Amendment “takings clause,” of-
ten referred to as eminent domain, to transfer “blighted” prop-erty to some of the developers, one of which was the pharma-ceutical company Pfizer. 
The only problem was that people still lived in these “blight-
ed” areas and some, like Susette Kelo, did not want to leave. Although the government offered “just compensation” for the property , the house had been in her family for years, with more of an intrinsic value for Kelo. 
Kelo took the case all the way to the Supreme Court, in Kelo 
v. City of New London, where she lost the suit. The jobs, tax rev-enue and development the city promised to its residents never materialized because Pfizer later relocated. 
Recently in Brooklyn, N.Y., residents complained that a Hal-
loween decoration outside of a home, depicting a scarecrow hanging from a tree, was offensive. 
In response, City Councilman Charles Barron, D-Brooklyn, 
said, “You ain’t speaking for this whole community because some people on this block came by and said it was offensive. They came and said it was offensive. It’s not a cool decoration.”
Poor grammar aside, Barron’s main argument is that the dis-
play offended the community, and that this reasoning was suf-ficient enough for the police to remove the decoration from the private property , which they did. 
What do the two incidents have in common? Both Councilman Barron and the City of New London seem 
to have the interests of their respective communities at heart. 
However, they seem to be suggesting that the rights and 
interests of the private property owners can be sacrificed if the purpose somehow benefits the community at large. 
But, as in the Kelo v . City of New London case, this does not 
always seem to occur. 
What community interest was served when the City of Par -
ma, Ohio, told Wesley Wood that he could no longer grow and sell vegetables from his property because it is illegal to run a food business out of a yard?
Wood was selling the vegetables he grew on his property to 
local residents who voluntarily purchased them.  
Like life and liberty, the ability to own, sell, use and dispose 
of private property is a fundamental human right. Private prop-erty serves man’s life and his liberty, by giving him the ability to engage in trade, providing him with the goods and services he needs to live. 
Sometimes we find that this “public interest” is both difficult 
to define and hard to achieve.
But when the government becomes the ultimate authority of 
when, where, what and how we can use our private property, we lose both the right to our liberty and, subsequently, our life. Cain’s candidacy not worth supporting
“We’ve run a campaign like nobody’s ever 
seen. But then, America’s never seen a can-didate like Herman Cain.”
We sure haven’t. At least, we’ve never seen a candidate 
willing to endorse an atrocious campaign ad featuring his campaign’s chief of staff bumbling through lines like that, followed by said chief of staff randomly smoking a cigarette and said candidate smiling at the camera for a full 10 sec-onds.
That chief of staff is Mark Block, and that candidate is 
someone you’ve probably heard of — Herman Cain. And the video, if you haven’t seen it, is worth looking up on You-tube.
Amid a laughable horse race for the GOP nomination, 
complete with plenty of distracting entertainment and em-barrassing debate moments, Herman Cain has emerged as the front-runner in straw polls, garnering 25 percent of the vote in a recent CBS News/New York Times poll. 
And as Rick Perry, Ron Paul, Newt Gingrich and Rick 
Santorum are quickly becoming forgotten in increasing numbers, it’s clear that at this point, only Cain and Mitt Romney remain as potential picks for the GOP Nomina-tion.
But here’s the thing: Herman Cain is in no way a viable 
presidential candidate. You’d be hard-pressed to find a po-litical analyst who actually takes his chances of winning the nomination seriously.
Much like Bachmann, Herman Cain is simply a fad. But 
unlike Bachmann, he doesn’t seem to be going away.
On the surface, it makes sense. Herman Cain has an ev-
eryman appeal. He speaks simply and to the point. He pro-motes simplifications of the federal tax code and a reduction in government spending. He’s even African American, for whatever that’s worth.
Yet while thousands of Americans around the nation 
are rallying against vague notions of corporate greed and big business running the government, Herman Cain is un-doubtedly a pro-business candi-date. Former CEO of Godfather’s Pizza, Cain’s current strongest running point is his 9-9-9 tax plan, something that might have come straight out of a computer game.
It’s eerily similar to the 9-9-9 
default tax settings of SimCity 4. 
But more importantly , it’s a 
terrible, terrible idea. Nonpartisan tax organizations are in agreement: Cain’s 9-9-9 plan would greatly decrease the tax rate of the wealthy at the expense of everyone else. It’s an inherent flaw in any flat tax, because taxing wages and goods hurts the middle-class a whole lot more than it hurts the rich.
So how can a candidate publicly announcing his fiscal 
support for the 1 percent find a home among a nation caught up in a uniting of the remaining 99 percent?
Quite simply, it’s all the tea party’s fault. It’s a popular 
boogeyman for liberals, I’ll admit it, but there’s a reason for that.
It’s behind everything.Of course, that’s hyperbole, but it’s not really that far 
from the truth. Herman Cain’s support stems from his tea party backing; the same tea party that promoted candidates like Michele Bachmann and Sarah Palin, despite their re-peated political gaffes.
Things have gotten downright comical. And I think it’s 
safely time to say that Herman Cain is a sideshow that we can no longer pretend to take seriously . When we hear his name, it should be accompanied with a begrudging chuck-le.
Because hey , I liked listening to Donald Trump pretend 
he would run. But I’d like to think I also knew when to change the channel.
Alex Guilmartin is a psychology and pre-law senior at UF . 
His column appears on Thursdays.
Alex Guilmartin
letters@alligator.org THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
In the midst of regional turmoil and over -
whelming pressure for change, Morocco’s 
monarchy has seemed to be a model for 
the Arab world of pre-emptive and proactive government action to preserve stability. 
In the face of popular protests driven by 
the Feb. 20 youth movement, King Moham-med VI was able to defuse tensions rap-idly and effectively. In his historic March 9 speech, he called for reform, announcing a “comprehensive constitutional reform which is designed to upgrade and revamp state in-stitutions.” Within months, a new constitu-tion had been written, presented and passed with a reported 98.5 percent approval rating in a referendum as much on Morocco’s king and monarchy as on political changes. 
The institution of cosmetic constitutional 
reforms allowed for the defusing of popular tensions and the re-branding of the monar -
chy as reformist without making substantial changes to the current system. These dynam-ics between king and people in enacting re-form all are illustrative of some of the fun-damental challenges to genuine and lasting political change in the Middle East.
The stabilizing combination of the tra-
ditional legitimacy of the monarchy, the personal charisma of the king and a careful balancing act between concession and re-pression provide a template of stability at the cost of individual liberty. Mohammed VI has continued to command a certain amount of popular and traditional authority. Having succeeded his unpopular father, Hassan II, in 1999, he has always presented himself as a modernizer and reformer. Portraying him-self as “King of the Poor,” he has strongly condemned government corruption and eco-nomic inequality. In a June 17 speech leading up to the July 1 constitutional referendum, the King framed his objectives largely in terms of the crafting of more just and legiti-mate state, speaking of his commitment to constitutional reform as watershed event in “the construction of a state based on the rule of law and on democratic institutions.” How-ever, the espousal of parliamentarian princi-ples has yet to correlate with their execution, and the referendum itself seems to hurt its intended ends. Considering that turnout in the most recent parliamentary election was a paltry 37 percent, the reported 72 percent turnout rate seems surprising, to say the least. Among the world’s most enduring dictators, Mohammed VI still commands almost un-checked power. He is, by law and tradition, commander of the faithful and head of state, combining political, moral and religious au-thority. While slightly limiting the previous-ly unchecked power of this Leviathan, the unelected and unaccountable king remains dominant with regard to executive power. The king appointed a small group of govern-ment officials, with no representatives of the various opposition movements, to revise the constitution, which he claimed was “drawn up by Moroccans, for all Moroccans.” In thus “sticking to its authoritarian prerogatives,” Aboubakr Jamai, a prominent Moroccan journalist and 2007 Niemann Felow at Har -
vard, sees the monarchy as having made “the smart move” by “market[ing] the whole process as the benevolent king opposed by tiny, noisy, archical minority.”
Optimistically, one could argue that an 
“enlightened” monarchy could, by gradually building the institutional basis and allowing civil society to strengthen, nurture the de-velopment of a more stable and sustainable democracy that would bring “greater good,” politically and socially, to all Moroccans. The King could be considered the optimal po-litical actor for the allowance of sustainable, peaceful and lasting change. However, a dis-tinction must be made between the facade presented by external perceptions of the Mo-roccan regime and its reality of a backsliding of freedom in Moroc-co since Mohammed VI has come to power is more representa-tive. By the Freedom 
House’s rating of political rights and civil liberties, Morocco scores a five and a four, respectively, on a scale of of one to seven.
Particularly in recent years, freedom 
of the press in Morocco has experienced a steady, downward trend and can, in brief, be considered not free. The Press Law allows for prison terms for nosy journalists and government ownership of media–the mon-archy has a major stake in Morocco’s main TV networks, giving it a high degree of con-trol over domestic media. Particularly in re-cent years, freedom of the press in Morocco has experienced a steady, downward trend. When he was recently visiting Harvard for an event at the Ash Center, Moroccan jour -
nalist Aboubakr Jamai expressed his concern that the viability of the independent press of Morocco has been undercut by government’s use of both its economic muscle and various legislative strategies to force independent newspapers to shut down. In 2000, his own Le Journal Hebdomadaire was banned after publishing an interview with Muhammad Abdelaziz, leader of the Polisario Front, a rebel movement for the independence of the Western Sahara since the 1970s. The status of the Western Sahara falls among the topics–namely religion, the king and the monarchy–that are, in practice, taboo. Today in Mo-rocco, more so than in previous years, Jamai believes that “journalism means militancy–not being paid regularly or not being paid at all.” Especially in recent months, journalists and bloggers covering demonstrations have experienced intimidation and even physical violence from police.
As elsewhere in the Arab Spring, Face-
book and other social media have provided a crucial means of organization and com-munication by creating a political space in-dependent of government authority. Internet usage in Morocco jumped from 3.4 percent in 2003 to more than 32.2 percent as of 2009, breaking the government’s monopoly on the dissemination of information. The ability to use online resources as a source of informa-tion and to publish online have allowed jour -
nalists to distance themselves from potential pressure. While technology can’t necessarily be considered a causal factor, it does allow for complex and contentious dialogue that engages all aspects of society. Jamai believes that ultimately “democracy means risks, means freeing voices,” and, with the limited degree of freedom of expression permitted in Morocco, the Internet may be the best way of doing so.
Although the implementation of genuine 
reform and the institution of true democrat-ic processes are possible  — and could, per -
haps, be seen as inevitable — in Morocco, change will not come without upending the status quo and risking its stability and security. Morocco’s model of “soft” autoc-racy and “benevolent” monarchy do seem to contribute more tangibly and immedi-ately to personal and societal good than un-certainty  for an undefined end. However, while the monarchical model may persist in the short term, it will certainly face fur -
ther challenges to its legitimacy as popular pressure continues to mount. The Feb. 20th movement continues to organize, and pro-tests have been recently revived. As Jamai puts it, “Democracy is a constant struggle, and we’re never done.” Upcoming parlia-mentary elections in November, the first since 2007, will test politicians’ responsive-ness to popular pressures and current levels of political engagement.
Elsa Kania is a columnist for Harvard Po-
litical Review at Harvard University.
Moroccan King Mohammed VI’s progessivism boosts popularityUWire
Elsa Kania
UWiretheAvenue    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
Splitting with your boyfriend or 
girlfriend is rarely a smooth or -
deal. 
The buildup to the breakup is stress-
ful, but dealing with the pain and re-morse afterward can be downright ex-hausting. 
When a relationship ends, the less 
time you spend dwelling on the past, the faster you can move on to the future.
Kellen Denny, a junior electrical en-
gineering student at UF, shared his ex-perience in dealing with breakups.
Kellen said after the drama of break-
ing up is done, he tends to surround himself with the opposite sex.      He isn’t looking to hook up or find a new girlfriend; he’s just searching for some female affection.
“Other than that, I would find myself 
trying to be around people a lot,” Kel-len said. “Because when I’m with other people, I don’t think about the breakup. If I were alone, it would be the only thing on my mind.”
Spending time with friends is 
important after a split. You need to keep the sense of companion-ship and happiness that you had during the relationship. 
Remember, moving on from an ex 
is like a bad Halloween costume — the only thing you can do is admit it sucked and try again next year, or next week.
— JACOB ROMOSER
Go online for a preview of “Oleanna,” restaurants to watch the game at in Jacksonville and a store with spooky spirit. If You Like it Then You Shoulda Put a Blog on it 
Check out the Alligator’s blogalicious content this week for gameday 
brews, fashion brands dominated by once forbidden trends and how to rent the “Jersey Shore” house. GTL! Visit alligator.org/blogs.   Twit Pick
@jimmyfallon: “Selena Gomez & Justin 
Bieber adopted a dog. Not to be outdone, Brad Pitt & Angelina Jolie adopted Selena Gomez & Justin Bieber. #FallonMono 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pumping Up the Punk Rock 
Fest 10, the punk rock music festival, features more than 200 bands and will 
invade Gainesville beginning Friday. See story at alligator.org/the_avenue.
 He Says…  She Says… He Said, She Said: How do you get over someone you had feelings for?
Preparing my liver for the approaching Flor -
ida/Georgia, Fest 10 and Halloween week-
end insanity soon to abound, I decided to bar 
hop and ask strangers what their methods are for moving past old flames. I wanted unfiltered hon-esty , and what’s a better lube than alcohol?  
From what I’ve gathered, when dealing with 
residual feelings from a breakup, it’s as though the Jekyll and Hyde dichotomy gets the best of every-
one. Forcing us into an internal combat that divides our conscious between helpful and harmful, even those with the most ironclad emotions have to figure out how to displace, or rather replace, feelings of companionship now eradicated. 
For those who opt for self-destruction, 
debauchery and casual sex often mask pangs 
of removed intimacy . Others expressed taking the newfound freedom as an excuse for self-improve-ment — nurturing the ties with other people in their lives, getting back into shape and kicking ass at school and work.  
The truth is, I really don’t know how to tackle 
this question. Obviously , it’s better to reap some kind of positive inspiration from the separation, but let’s face the fact that none of us are superhu-man.  If you get drunk and have a one-nighter, you might feel like crap the next day, but I will say that this isn’t necessarily a bad thing. 
My lovely readers, we only live once, and it’s 
“mistakes” such as these that help define who we are and what we want out of life, love and most importantly , ourselves.  
OK yes, being newly single requires adjustment, 
and depending on how much you cared for your ex, this can be completely draining. I hate to say it, but regardless of whether one falls into category indigent or inspired, the only remedy that really mends is out of our control: time. In the interim, if you’re feeling nutty then talk to a counselor. It’s their job. 
Although, I would like to close this week with 
little tidbit of wisdom: If you write an emotionally charged email to your ex, give yourself at least 24 hours before sending it. Learn from my mistake, and spare yourselves the embarrassment. It will make moving on much easier.
— KAY BEA SAPHIRA LAZARRE
Avenue Writer 
What started out as a carry-away for foun-
tain drinks has morphed into a party staple. 
Nothing quite says “cheers” and, “No, you can’t know what’s in my cup, it’s MY cup,” like the waxy, red plastic goblet that is the Solo cup.
This year, the Solo Cup Com-
pany is celebrating “75 Years of Solutions.” The cup first made its appearance in Chicago in 1936. It was used at drive-in movies as a way to improve sanitation with convenience in mind.
Today, that still holds true, and the par-
ty essential is still available in the iconic red. The color is infallible. It’s synonymous with the phrase, “We’re having a good time.”
Let’s face it, despite whatever beverage 
you may have 18-ounces of in that cup, you just don’t want a picture with it to land on your employer’s Facebook newsfeed. That’s why we’ve become so good at tucking it be-hind our friend’s back when leaning in for that group photo. Cheese!
You could even have milk in a Solo 
cup and a plate of cookies next to you but wouldn’t dare be caught red-handed in a photo with it (no pun intended).
But we can’t forget the other Solo prod-
ucts. The Solo Cup Company has made its landmark in being one of the biggest distrib-utors of single-use disposable products. 
From plastic tableware to cups, contain-
ers and plates, the Solo Cup Company meets the needs of just about any social gathering. Many tailgates, family picnics and barbeques were successful thanks to Solo.
So this weekend, whether you’re “Saving 
the ta-tas,” having fun at a Halloween bash 
or celebrating the Gators’ win over those 
Dawgs (we hope), raise a toast and 
praise the real life of the party — 
the Solo cup.
Cheers to a red-hot 75 years: 
the anniversary of the Solo cup    
“I would find myself trying 
to be around people a lot, 
because when I’m with other 
people, I don’t think about 
the breakup. If I were alone, it 
would be the only thing on my 
mind.”
Kellen Denny
UF junior
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 9
Carly Coleman/ Alligator
Cross-dress: Frat Guy 
Ladies create their own TFM by sporting Sperry 
shoes, a red Solo cup, a button-down and khaki shorts. 
Carly Coleman/ Alligator
Social Media: Twitter 
Tap into modern-day trends with this original Halloween cos-
tume. Take a display poster or white board and morph it into a proﬁ  le page. Carry around a marker so you can “tweet” throughout the night. 
  MAE BASIRATMAND
 Avenue Writer
  As a sober Lindsey Lohan once said in 
the movie “Mean Girls,” “Halloween is the 
one night a year when a girl can dress up like a total slut, and no other girls can say anything about it.”  
In college, Halloween is the time of 
the year when everyone can play some-one they’re not and get away with it.  Costumes, however, can rack up a lot of money, and the whole idea of originality fades.  
But this year, all you really need al-
ready exists in household items and some imagination. If all else fails, just put on all your gym clothes and winter coats at the same time, and say you’re channeling your inner Gaga.
  
  
The Group Costume
  Sometimes it’s hard to coordinate with 
so many people, but Halloween is just more fun when you’re dressing up with friends.   
If you want to annoy people, run around 
Halloween night dressed up as the Angry Birds characters. This can be achieved by wearing masks depicting the different characters and taping feather tails to your shorts.  
For your eclectic group of friends, just 
go as the cast of “Modern Family.” Surely we all channel one person from the cast. For the group of girls who want to dress 
up as the Kardashians: simply put pillows in your jeans and make sure your black wig reaches it.  
    
  Cross-dress
  This is the time of the year when cross-
dressing will help you pick up whomever you want to.  This is very easy to do, as you can just ask to borrow clothes from your neighbors who live downstairs. Use it as an excuse to come in. 
Ladies should dress up as frat guys. 
Get out the Sperry shoes, khaki shorts, button-down shirts and don’t forget a red Solo cup. Guys can dress up like girls by wearing bows in their hair, a Vera Brad-ley backpack and a sundress (if you want to take it to an extreme).  Don’t forget to throw up those sorority letters.
   
  Social Media
  Be Facebook or Twitter. Take a display 
poster, draw a proﬁ  le page and wear it throughout the night. Make sure you have people write on your “wall” with a Sharp-ie.  
If you want to be Twitter, just do the 
same as Facebook, but make sure you tweet every time you see something that seems tweet-worthy. You can also use a white board to create and erase tweets throughout the night.     Don’t forget a hash tag!  DIY: Cheap, easy ways to craft impressive, original costumes  halloween 
Carly Coleman/ Alligator
The Group Costume: The Kardashians 
Getting a group together this Halloween? Coordi-
nate with your costumes by dressing up as the Kar-dashians. Based on your personalities, choose who gets to be Kourtney, Khloe and Kim. Don’t forget to put a pillow in your pants to create those famous backsides. 10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
MAE BASIRATMAND
Avenue Writer
It would be foolish to condemn college students for 
drinking. After all, if it’s a football weekend, you know 
inebriation is going to be a mass event. 
Yet, consuming glass after glass of drinks is not only 
detrimental to your wallet but to your health, too. We all know the negative effects of alcohol (come on, we’re re-quired to take a quiz on it as a freshman), but what drink options are better?  
Don’t discount working out for hours at Southwest 
Recreation Center and meticulously watching what you eat just to blow it on chugging sessions at tailgates. Not to mention, the inevitable, dreaded hangover will come after a night of downing shots with your buddies. 
Next time you plan on going out, think of these quick 
tips and alternatives to save yourself the nausea and to guarantee that your pants will still fit you by the time Thanksgiving rolls around.
The higher the proof of the alcohol, the more calories 
it contains. For example, 80-proof vodka has 64 calories versus 100-proof vodka, which has 82 calories.
Avoid sugary cocktails, such as those with syrup. These 
add calories and make you more thirsty.
Use mixers such as club soda, water or low-calorie fruit 
juices.The fewer items mixed into your drink, the less cal-ories. Opt for sparkling water or simply use a lemon or lime wedge to add some taste. If you do need a sweetener, use a low-calorie one such as Splen-da. 
Don’t be fooled by light 
beer. If you plan on drinking more beer because it has less calories, think again. 
Drinking more light beer 
can be worse than just drink-ing regular beer, which has the full taste.
Give yourself a cap by the end of 
the night. Setting limits is key to mak-ing sure you don’t go overboard. 
Setting such limits will also help 
you know how much money you’ll spend and how much to expect you’ll be 
drinking.
The Avenue’s compiled some healthy 
drink alternatives for your boozing, so 
you can prepare properly for the week-end’s festivities. 
Instead of downing high-calorie drinks, 
take a gander at our list first.You won’t have to think twice before ordering these healthy, yet refreshing and delicious, choices. Planning to chug away this weekend? 
Check out these healthy boozes first  Dark Rum and Diet Coke
-1 shot of rum, a splash of diet coke
 Vodka Water
-1 shot of vodka, mixed with water, squeeze a 
lemon wedge in for flavor
 Glass of Wine
-5 ounces of any red or white wine Mojito Cosmo
-1 ½ ounces of mint vodka, 2 ounces of cran-
berry juice, ¾ ounce of lime juice
 Low-Cal Mimosa
-2 ounces of low-calorie orange juice, 3 ounc-
es of champagne
 Tequila on the Rocks
-1 ½ shots of Tequila, squeeze lemon and 
lime, ice cubes
 Gin and Tonic
-1 ½ ounces of gin, 5 ounces of tonic waterDrink Recipes
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Chuckles the Clown taunts unsuspecting travelers through the 
haunted trail at Eerie Acres.
DIANA LOPEZ
Avenue Writer
Swaying blue lights illuminate the winding, wood-
ed path you walk through, while actors hide in the 
brush, waiting to jump out from the darkness. The path leads you through a sawmill town cursed by a voodoo priestess. Chuckles the Clown, Mrs. Slaughter, the Butcher and the chainsaw-wielding Virgil roam through the woods waiting for passers-by to haunt.
The haunted trail at Eerie Acres Haunted Attraction 
offers guests a chance to become “better acquainted” with these characters. Guests can also find their way through a 9-acre corn maze or enjoy a hayride under starry skies. The event will run this Friday and Satur -
day from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. and is located in Chiefland, Fla.
Susan Watson, creator of the event, said this has 
been something she has always wanted to do. Watson used to put on scare trails for friends and family before she decided to turn it into a public event. She runs it with her husband, Phillip, and said this is Eerie Acres’ second year running.
Chris Palmer plays a deranged hillbilly on the trail, 
looking for food for his cannibalistic mother. Palmer, information technology specialist at the College of Pharmacy at the University of Florida, said that peo-ple’s true colors really come out on the trail.
“I had a lady throw her purse at me,” Palmer said.Addison Mertz, lab technician for the State of Flori-
da, plays Slugger the Clown and is new to Eerie Acres this year. He said he has already made a 9-year-old cry.Mertz also said he enjoys the leniency of his charac-
ter because he gets to be creative.
“I give them the basics of a character or scenario 
and they run with it, developing the individuality of the character or scene, then bring it to life,” Watson said.
On the website, there is a full-length story to accom-
pany the theme of the haunted trail in the perspective of a writer who goes to investigate the mysteries of the town. You discover her fate at the end of the trail.
The half-mile trail takes about 20 minutes to com-
plete. All guests are encouraged to wear closed toed shoes and children younger than the age of 13 are to be accompanied by an adult.
The maze, which is new to Eerie Acres this year, 
is cut in the shape of a grim reaper. There are maps, riddles and clues inside the maze to assist guests. 
Curtis Perry , plumbing contractor and parent, said 
the event is a cheap and safe way to entertain the kids. This year, he brought along his daughter Darby , 13. She said she will not be walking the haunted trail this year but enjoys finding her way through the maze.
Gregg Watson, cousin to the family, drives the trac-
tors for the hayrides and said each trip takes about 40 people. The hayride is three-quarters of a mile long and takes about 20 minutes to complete.
Children younger than the age of 5 have free admis-
sion. For all others, the entrance to the hayride is $3, the maze $7 and the trail $15. Guests may also purchase an all-inclusive package for $20, which allows admission for all three events. Group discounts are available for groups of 10 or more. Cash is only accepted at the gate, although online ticketing is available. 
An officer and medical assistant are always present 
on site to assist guests as well.
For directions or for more information, visit ee-
rieacres.com.Eerie Acres: A scare with a storyline 
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer 
 
Not your typical trip to the strawberry 
fields, this haunted corn maze is the perfect October activity. The third-annual Rogers Farm Corn Maze, 3831 NW 156th Ave., is now open, and it offers the perfect mix of fright and fall. Here’s what to expect. 
1. It IS scary. Don’t be fooled. Just because the maze 
is family-friendly during the day doesn’t mean it can’t deliver at night. 
“Oh yeah, expect to be scared,” said Lar -ry Rogers, owner of Rogers Farm. “We got a couple chain saws out there, some scary suits and masks.” 
2. You will get lost. With 10 acres of corn, it’s almost impos-
sible to avoid. But what’s a night at a corn maze without about an hour or two of wan-dering around scared, cold and lost? So make sure you gather around your favorite group of people and wander through the maze. It could take you a while. 
“The maze was scary, but it was a lot of 
fun. We all got lost for quite a while,” Kjer -
stine Payne, a 19-year-old general business studies major, said of the maze. 
3. The spook trail.  
This is  a special feature of the maze that 
runs through the woods located on the farm. But keep an eye out; the trail isn’t your aver -
age hiking root. 
“We got a few things out in the spook 
trail that work pretty well,” Rogers com-mented.
4. Not too much “Paranormal Activity.”  
“We try to scare, but it is more friend-
ly scare. We aren’t out there grabbing  people,” Rogers said. 
No Halloween Horror Nights, this fami-ly-owned and operated maze is a nod to  the nostalgic days where fear factors were as simple as spooky ghosts and scarecrows. 
5. While you are on the farm make sure 
to pick up your Halloween essentials and get your fill of fall. 
Pumpkins and tractor pulled hayrides 
are available. 
Rogers Corn Maze will be open until 
Nov. 13. The haunted corn maze comes alive at 8 p.m. and goes until midnight Friday and Saturday. The costs for the corn maze is $8. For more information, visit rogers-farm.com. 
Five things to expect from the Rogers Farm Corn Maze
halloween #“I had a lady throw her purse at me.” 
Chris Palmer 
deranged hillbillyTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Now Leasing for January 2012
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-21/1 East at $469, 1/2 off 2nd month*
$99 Move In SpecialFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-588710-31-46-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Reduced to $1680. Avail now or Jan 352-665-8166 lv msg.   11-23-11-50-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2. Please call 352-371-3473    10-31-11-33-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155011-2-11-20-2
●●● One Mile to UF ●●●
 Home 2br 1 bath. New A/C Hardwood Floors, 
Tile in kitchen & bath & Florida room $900.00 mo.  Call Andree Realty 352-375-290011-4-10-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381     11-10-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1750/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    11-15-11-20-2
● Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 3 blocks to UF  
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
● 3BD/1BA House - 2046 NW 31 PL
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
11-16-11-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2
1 BR apartment re-let available at Towne 
Parc for the spring semester. Close to cam-pus, 3 bus routes, & pet friendly! Can sell the non-BR furniture for cheap. Call to come see the place! (570) 878-3827   11-1-5-2
Beautiful Haile Plantation Town House for 
rent. 2 bdr and 2 and 1/2 Bath. Next to the vil-lage center. Jogging trail,walk to restaurants and shops. $800/month.Call 404-323-9338    11-1-11-5-2
MOBILE HOMES AS LOW AS $500 DOWN
We Finance - Payments as low as $425./mo
Nice, quiet community near airport.
Buy now - sell after you graduate!
Lamplighter MHC 352-372-4207
www.mhcomm.com
10-27-11-1-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease gets free 32in FLAT SCREEN TV!
1/1 BR in 2/2 Townhouse Apt Spring 2012Museum Walk Apts. Asking for 627/month Includes furniture, W, E, In, Ca! Walk-In CLSteps from UF Call (305)587-3128   10-31-11-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
MASTER Bdrm. PRIVATE BATH, WALK 
IN CLOSET 708 NW 10th Ave. 5 min to UF. Nice Cabana around Lg Swimming Pool, $570 incl utils, & W/D. Huge space in quiet area. Flexible lease w low sec dp. Call Kristoff 352-332-5030 or 514-6180 ready Nov. 1st.    11-4-11-15-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
CASH FOR SMARTPHONES! WORKING 
OR NOT! ANDROID, iOS, WINDOWS AND MORE! WE BUY WATER DAMAGED PHONES! TECHMODO 6450 SW ARCHER RD( BY BEEF O BRADY`S) 3528725881    11-1-10-8
Get a BestBuy gift card for a penny at www.
SilverGoldBids.com. You will find huge dis-counts on gold and silver coins and bars, jewelry, gift cards, and much, much more bid and win.    10-28-11-3-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifiedsCARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
11-30-11-61-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-1296 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
1998 VW jetta diesel
180000 mi mint cond.single retiree ownercomplete service record5000 obo tel 378 7214       10-28-5-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      10-20-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7065    10-31-11-20-14
GET PAID TO WATCH SPORTS LIVE!
All expenses paid +70$.
For details visit: www.scoutsport.org
11-1-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14
Molly and Friends looking for dilligent, quality 
oriented PT workers to build our high qual-ity cat furniture.  Good pay for good working.  See Holly at 337-1535 and come down to 1847 South Main Street    10-28-7-14
Obtain valuable experience for your future. 
If you are hardworking & enthusiastic GHF 
wants to meet you!  We will be holding a 
Job Fair for the following positions:
Floor Instructors
Housekeepers
Kid’s Club Attendants
Receptionist
Zwurly’s (Café Attendant)
Internships for the Spring Semester
No prior experience necessary to apply
Apply at 4820 Newberry Road
Wednesday, October 26th
Thursday, October 27
Noon-3pm
10-27-11-3-14
Magician Needed
for company party on December 9th from 
6:00 - 7:00 pm. Please call 352-514-3436.  11-7-11-10-14Legal Secretary/Receptionist. $9/hour. F/T. 
Needs to be responsible, diligent, and de-pendable. Call 352-371-4000.   11-16-11-15-14
Law clerks needed for research
& drafting on criminal appeals. 
flex hrs., $12/hr to start, send 
resume to Alex Paralegal, 7758 
SE83 Ct. Newberry, FL 32669
11-4-11-8-14
Web Programmers (.NET) jobs and intern-
ships available at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   11-8-11-10-14
Search Engine Optimization (SEO) spe-
cialist wanted at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume and SEO samples to hr@352media.com    11-8-11-10-14
Customer Service Assistant: The ideal can-
didate must have experience in data entry, multi task and be detail oriented. Experience ticketing air reservations is a plus. Visit the following for more information: http://www.fa-cebook.com/HolbrookTravel?v=wall. Please email your resume for consideration toetel@holbrooktravel.com    10-31-11-4-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse. Apply 
from 2:30 - 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please.     11-1-5-14
Net Enforcers Software Engineer. FT position 
developing web applications. Experience in SQL query development and Amazon Web. Email resumes toahjobs@intersections.com    11-2-11-5-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION FT
ECG DepartmentPlease apply in personInstitute of Veterinary Specialists3603 NW 98th St. Suite A       11-2-5-14
ATTTENTION STUDENTS
Part time help needed at Westgate Home Sales. Please contact Matt for details 352-378-2453 x 19   11-9-11-10-14
Weekend job for detail oriented com-puter savvy person. tinyurl.com/gtn55
    
10-27-11-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15
Gville Valet "let me be your legs" personal 
shopper/assistant/errand service. Keep your parking space and let me run your errands. Sara Morsey 352-538-2852    10-28-10-15
COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 
1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
Elvis Fans Only Pol Parsley youtube.com
Souvenir t-shirts, caps, mugs, CDs, tapes, DVDs. New Single CD release. He's the King of Rock n' Roll. Call 338-0938. Dealer OK. Also 5 piece band avail.    10-31-5-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.    11-22-30-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi-vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Gainesville "Doobie Toss" The Video! 
Features "The Toss" 1992-'93! Now on DVD! Includes interview with the late and lovable, "Guru of Ganga," Jack Herer, and the USDA's 1942 film "Hemp for Victory!" Help fund the Hempfest! SAT. NOV. 5 Gainesville's Downtown BO Diddley Plaza! Donnations Greatfully accepted! Jodi- FL C.A.N. 321-253-3673Doobietosservideo@gmail.com    11-4-11-7-20
The Doobie Tosser says that you should 
Google this video! "UFOTV Presents: The Hemp War Conspiracy!" This is the film that the US Gov. does not want you to see!    11-4-11-7-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Volleyball Team Depends On Setters
Florida is on an eight-match win streak, thanks 
to the effort of setters Kelly Murphy and Chanel Brown. Read more online at alligatorSports.org.Easley UPD Investigation Complete
University Police finished investigating a claim that UF defensive tackle Dominique Easley assaulted a man following a loss to Alabama on Oct. 1. UPD is recommending to the State Attorney that Easley be charged with misdemeanor battery.Coach Becky Burleigh said the Gators’ soccer team must learn to beat opponents’ conservative defenses. See Story at alligatorSports.org.
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said the Gators used the bye 
week to analyze and adjust the playbook. 
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Florida defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said the Gators 
simplified the playbook slightly during their bye week.
While he noted Wednesday that the changes were not “whole-
sale,” Quinn said the coaching staff reviewed film last week, 
looking for play calls that led to breakdowns. Usually , those calls were little wrinkles added to prepare for specific opponents.
Quinn said the Gators’ defense has struggled with plays that 
aren’t in its regular rotation. He would not go into specifics, but he said the problems ranged from the wrong personnel being on the field to players not lining up in the correct spots.
“The things that you play best are the things that you play 
all the time — through spring practice, through training camp,” he said.
Coach Will Muschamp has been praised by former players 
for his ability to keep tricks up his sleeve, saving certain defensive plays and forma-tions for the best opponents. But against Alabama on Oct. 1 and LSU one week 
later, the Gators’ defense did not match up well.
Florida gave up an average of 409.5 yards and 36 points on 
defense per game in those two contests. In its other five games, the Gators’ defense has allowed an average of 241 yards and 10.6 points.
Big Dawgs: Florida’s defensive front will face one of the na-
tion’s largest offensive lines this Saturday. Georgia’s five starters are listed at an average of 323.8 pounds.
Florida used a group of eight defensive linemen who aver -
aged 281.1 pounds against Auburn on Oct. 15. Quinn, however, isn’t so sure the Bulldogs’ size advantage is as lopsided as the roster weights would indicate.
“Usually I’d be leery of what the offensive line is listed at,” he 
said. “I think you can be plus or minus some, you know? Both in the NFL and in college, you know? Sometimes they’re listed at 330 (pounds): ‘That guy hasn’t been 330 in four years.’”
Quinn proceeded to say Georgia’s offensive line is still plenty 
big, and the Gators’ defense will have its hands full.
Loving the stomp: Though the game happened four years 
ago, plenty of Gators have brought up the Florida-Georgia con-test from 2007, when the whole Bulldogs team rushed the field to celebrate after its first touchdown.
While most players continue to see the celebration as                 
disrespectful, defensive tackle Omar Hunter has a different take. Gators rethinking things on defense after break
� RECRUITS SEE OPPORTUNITY 
TO HELP GATORS.
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
 
Breaking up isn’t as hard as it’s 
said to be.
Lorenzo Phillips, an outside line-
backer from Patterson (La.) High, 
decommitted from Florida last week. Now he’s considering Houston, where two of his teammates are committed; Texas A&M, where he decommitted from in March; as well as LSU, Ala-bama, Pittsburgh, Nebraska, Louisi-ana Tech and Tennessee. He told Ri-vals.com that distance from home was the factor that prompted reopening his recruitment.
Some other UF oral commits don’t 
buy that.
Mike Davis, a running back com-
mit from Stone Mountain (Ga.) Ste-phenson High wasn’t surprised. 
“I think it had to do with the three 
lost (games),” he said.
In a recruiting realm where oral 
commitments are often announced and withdrawn with spontaneity or seriousness, many schools land sought-after athletes only to see them shift allegiances to the next big offer thrown their way. 
Some blame coaches, parents and 
mentors for letting teenagers freely make decisions and not holding them accountable. Some blame the intense fan following of recruiting news, and the Internet. Others blame college coaching staffs, whose interest in cer -
tain recruits can decline when the prep star next door makes headlines.
Yet another cause is the potential 
effect of a losing streak on recruits’ decisions.
Florida is in the midst of a three-
game slide, losing at home to Alabama and on the road against LSU and Au-burn. 
But other than Phillips, Florida’s 
2012 recruiting class seems unwaver -
ing.
“Yes, it has been rough,” said Da-
vis, who orally committed Feb. 19. UF commits 
not wavering despite three big losses
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Aaron Murray’s emotions may have 
gotten the best of him in Jacksonville last 
season.
The then-redshirt freshman was start-
ing in his home state for the first time in his collegiate career and squaring off against several familiar faces.
The start also came in one of the three 
games Georgia circles on its calendar each year — the Florida matchup, as well as the season opener and the  Georgia Tech game. 
In Georgia’s 34-31 
loss to Florida last sea-son, Murray threw for 313 yards and three touchdowns. 
But the Tampa na-
tive also tossed three 
interceptions, including a costly one in overtime 
that set up Florida’s 37-yard game-win-ning field goal.
“Only [Murray] knows the emotions that he was feeling a year ago,” Georgia coach Mark Richt said Tuesday. 
“Being a freshman, he was a redshirt 
freshman; it’s still a first-time experience so I’m sure he was a little hyped up for that.”
But a year later, with No. 22 Georgia 
entering the rivalry game ranked higher than Florida for the first time since 2005, Richt doesn’t want his quarterback dwell-ing on last season’s performance. 
Instead, he wants Murray to focus on 
the task at hand.
“The less said, the better,” Richt said. 
“I want him to focus on what’s going to help him win when the ball is snapped. Murray, Bulldogs focused on this year, not pastUF Fo otball
See FOOTBALL, p Age 19
See ReCRUIT, p Age 19See geOR gIA, p Age 19Murray
Sophomore threw three picks in ‘1018, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
Hunter was a senior at Buford 
(Ga.) High in 2007.
“I know a lot of people say 
they don’t like it; but me, as a fan, I kinda liked it,” he said. “I was getting recruited and was like, ‘That’s something new.’ It is what it is. It’s a great football game, great rivalry , and I love it.”
Demps unrestrained: Mus-champ said running back Jeff Demps is at “top speed” during practice this week. Demps (an-kle) missed the game against Auburn, and in the LSU and Alabama games he carried the ball a combined five times for four yards.
The senior gained 320 yards 
and scored four touchdowns on 34 carries in Florida’s first four games. 
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@
alligator.org.  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
Alligator File Photo
UGA quarterback Aaron Murray has thrown for 1,653 yards and 16 
touchdowns, and he ranks 18th nationally in yards per attempt.
Murray second-leading passer in SEC
“That’s where our conversa-
tions are going.”
For Georgia to claim just its 
fourth win in the series in the 
last 21 years, Murray will have to challenge a Florida secondary that has been largely untested this season. 
During UF’s three-game losing 
streak, opponents have passed only 55 times compared to 135 runs, but the defense has still given up a handful of big passing plays.
Testing Florida’s defensive 
backs could prove easy for a more mature Murray, who ranks sec-ond in the Southeastern Confer -
ence in passing with 236.1 yards per game.
For the season, Murray has 
thrown for 1,653 yards and 16 touchdowns. 
He ranks third in the confer -
ence in passing efficiency, be-hind only LSU’s Jarrett Lee and Alabama’s A.J. McCarron. He is also second in the conference and 18th nationally among qualifying passers in yards per attempt with 8.3.
“You’re going to get 10 to 12 
shots in the game where they’re going to stretch the field vertical-ly, and you have to defend those balls,” Florida coach Will Mus-champ said Monday. 
“There’s no question that this 
game will be a little different from the ones we’ve seen in the last two weeks especially, as far as what people are trying to do down the field.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@
alligator.org.Geor GiA , from page 17
FootBALL ,
 from page 17Demps back to ‘top 
speed’ in practice
Four-star WR commit: UF searching for identity
“It affects (my commitment), but 
not as much. I just look at it as ‘Why are we losing games? We should win.’… I love the new of-fense, (but) Florida needs bigger backs… I want to come in and help the Gators win. I look at it as a rebuilding year for any team.”
Wide receiver commit Latroy 
Pittman of Citra North Marion High committed on Aug. 18, 2010. He was a bit surprised by the Phillips news, but said the losing streak “really doesn’t affect me much. Every team has its run and their rough seasons.”
“Just take it for what it is: new 
coaching staff, kind of a young team looking for its identity. Just playing more assignment football, doing more of the little things right (are keys),” he said.
Melbourne Holy Trinity’s 
Marcus Maye, a safety commit, was also surprised by Phillips’ move, but says that as far as his commitment, he is “still in, 100 percent.”
 
M a y e , who in-jured his 
foot earlier this month, said one thing is on his mind when watch-ing the struggling Gators: “Make them better.”
Oral commitments are non-bind-
ing until a national letter of intent is signed on or after National Signing  Day on Feb. 1, 2012.
recruit , from page 17
UF Recruiting20, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
THE RALLY
  Greg: John Brantley is back!
  Signal the trumpets and ring the 
bells, Florida’s senior quarterback (and 
savior) has returned.
  Not so fast.
  Regardless of who is under center, the 
Gators have a ton of issues to get ironed out.
  The last three games, Florida’s offensive 
line has surrendered nine sacks and paved the way for only 64.7 rushing yards per contest.
  The defense has given up 206.3 yards per 
game on the ground in the three losses, down from the 61 mark that was No. 5 nationally after four weeks. Even the pass defense has fallen off, giving up 8.7 yards per attempt in October after holding opponents to 4.7 yards per throw the ﬁ  rst four games.
  On special teams, Florida couldn’t even 
catch a punt against Auburn.
  How is Brantley going to ﬁ  x that?  Matt: Didn’t you hear Will Muschamp on 
Monday? Brantley’s return is going to give this team a humongous “psychological” boost!
  That’s all the Gators need.   Stop it with all these stats and facts and 
logic, Greg. All that matters is how Florida ap-proaches this game mentally . 
  Plus, that boost isn’t limited to just the of-
fense. Brantley playing against Georgia is go-ing to help the de-fense, too! 
  Omar Hunter 
even said so. 
  “We feed off of 
Brantley. … Hav-ing your starting quarterback back, that makes you feel good. … We’re gonna play hard for Brant-ley.”
  See? They’re going to play hard. What 
more can you ask for?  
  Greg: A couple tackles might be nice. Be-
sides, UF’s players have shown that what they say isn’t always accurate.
  Although he admitted the Gators have 
focused on tackling aggressively and with proper form and that this exercise has taken up a period of practice each day, Sharrif Floyd said tackling isn’t a problem or something that “wasn’t where it needed to be.”
  Wrong. Those pesky “stats and facts and 
logic” show Auburn, LSU and Alabama pounding Florida with dominating rush-ing attacks. Michael Dyer, Spencer Ware and Trent Richardson all had some success on the ground, and Georgia’s Isaiah Crowell ﬁ  ts into that same downhill, power-running mold.  I don’t think Brant-
ley plans to trot out on defense, so I’m not sure his presence will help that a ton.
  That is, unless this 
“psychological boost” includes some kind of psychic, leg-paralyz-
ing mind tackling.  
Matt: Tackling, schmackling.   The Gators didn’t lose all those games be-
cause they couldn’t wrap up. They lost them because they didn’t have Brantley. Duh. 
  UF’s gunslinger may even be the best quar-
terback in the state, including the NFL teams. 
  The difference he’s going to make by re-
turning is immeasurable:
  Quinton Dunbar is going to be relevant. 
Deonte Thompson will be one game closer to getting that championship, man. And Jordan Reed may even catch a chest-high throw with-out leaping to the moon. 
  With Brantley back, the sky really is the 
limit. You saw what he did against Alabama. This guy has ﬁ  rst-round NFL pick written all over him. 
  Stats are for losers. All Johnny does is win.   If you don’t see yet, you will. Just wait.    Greg: I’m a little jarred by the use of “Brant-
ley” and “ﬁ  rst-round NFL pick” in such close proximity , so you’ll have to excuse me if I need a second to regroup.
  This is the same quarterback who was 
benched so a pair of tight ends could take snaps last season. A year doesn’t change all that much.
  Even if Brantley has improved, the Gators 
would need Aaron Rodgers-level talent to make something out of this hodgepodge of wide receivers. If you add all of their stats together, their 646 yards still rank behind the NCAA’s top 26 individual wideouts.
  I don’t see a quarterback who threw more 
picks than touchdowns last year saving the season with such a dreary supporting cast. 
    Matt: OK, before we get a ton (read: three) 
of emails and comments from incredulous fans who can’t read between the lines, let me be frank: My entire stance has been sarcasm.
  Of course, Brantley’s return doesn’t mean 
that much. The Gators have plenty of prob-lems that the return of one slightly above-av-erage quarterback simply cannot ﬁ  x.
  Fans need to realize this and gain some 
perspective. Buckle up for a bumpy ride. 
  Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org and 
Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org. 
 Will Brantley’s return really be the boost Florida needs?
Greg Luca
twitter: @gregluca
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmatts