We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 66 THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n UF sophomore 
goalkeeper Mikey 
Meagher (right) 
will lead the No. 
6 Florida lacrosse 
team against 
No. 2 Northwestern 
in a battle of con -
ference unbeatens 
today at 6:30 p.m.
See Story, Page 18.HAMILTON, Ohio — Motorists 
are off the hook for more than 900 
speeding tickets automatically issued by a mobile police camera in south-west Ohio.
The camera had been stationed 
in a park in Hamilton on April 2 at the same time a youth soccer tourna-ment, the Mid-American Soccer Clas-sic, was being held.
Police Chief Neil Ferdelman tells The JournalNews of Hamilton that he canceled the tickets because of the tournament, which he says drew many out-of-towners who were un-aware the camera was in use.
At $95 each, the 900 tickets would 
have totaled more than $86,000. The chief says 70 of the tickets were mailed. Those motorists have been sent letters telling them: never mind.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSOhio police chief cancels hundreds of speeding tickets
Sunny
85/59FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 18
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Sir Mix-A-Lotta Cello
Comedian Jim Tavare performs in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom Wednesday night. Tavare, 
who played Tom the Innkeeper in “Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban” and placed fourth in season six of “Last Comic Standing,” used a large cello as part of his skit, even playing his own rendition of Sir Mix-A-Lot’s “Baby Got Back.”
n THE COMMITTEE WILL 
HAVE EIGHT MEMBERS.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Bernie Machen 
announced the members of the 
Ad Hoc UFPD Campus Advisory Committee on Wednesday, follow-ing up on a promise to improve 
communication between UPD and 
the rest of the campus community. 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
said the eight  members were cho-sen to represent all shareholders on campus, including students, fac-ulty and administration.
The committee will advise the 
police chief on issues directly affect-
ing the campus community, includ-
ing officer-student relationships and the use of force by police. 
“The goal obviously is to en-
courage some open discussion on tough subjects,” Sikes said.
Three students will sit on the 
committee, including Student 
Body President-elect Ben Meyers, 
three faculty members, University Police Chief Linda Stump and a representative for university ad-ministration.
Meyers, who will take office this 
summer, said so much of the trou-ble surrounding UPD-student re-lationships stems from each party 
not understanding the motivations 
of the other. He said he hopes this committee will help prevent mis-understandings in the future and rebuild trust after incidents such as the shooting of graduate student Kofi Adu-Brempong last spring.
“Opening up the lines of com-
munication between the student 
body and UPD is going to be criti-
cal to repair the wounds that have been made over the past couple of years,” Meyers said.Machen names 
committee to advise UFPD
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
Although Gov. Rick Scott has had 
a shaky relationship with GOP lead-
ers in the state legislature since he 
took office in January, several Repub-licans at UF are choosing to stand by the former health executive-turned-politician — at least for now. 
A Quinnipiac University poll re-
leased April 6 showed that voter disapproval for Scott has more than doubled since Feb. 2. In April, 48 per -cent of voters who responded disap-proved of Scott’s work so far, while 35 percent approved. 
In Quinnipiac’s February poll, 35 
percent of those polled approved of 
his work so far while only 22 percent did not. 
In a poll by Public 
Policy Polling released 
March 29, respondents indicated that 
in a hypothetical rematch Scott would 
lose to Sink in a 56-37 result. 
Sixteen percent of polled voters Regretting Rick? 
Polls show GOP riftsLOCAL
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer 
A former candidate for Gainesville mayor 
and City Commission was arrested Tuesday 
night for sexual crimes committed almost a year ago.
Oswald “Ozzy” Angulo, turned himself 
into Gainesville Police and admitted to the felony sexual assault charge Tuesday, ac-cording to GPD spokeswoman Tscharna Senn.
Last July, Angulo was watching a movie at 
the victim’s home with her and her friend. 
The victim, a woman in her 20s who had 
never had a sexual relationship with An-gulo, fell asleep before the movie was over and awoke to find Angulo performing oral sex on her.
She pushed him away, and he left imme-
diately.
The woman told her friend, but she didn’t 
report the incident to police until March 7.
GPD detectives opened 
an investigation and, on Tuesday, issued a warrant for his arrest.
Angulo turned himself 
into police at 11:12 p.m. Tuesday and was taken 
to jail. He was released at about 1:30 a.m. Wednes-
day on $30,000 bond.
Besides his political pursuits, Angulo has 
been attending Santa Fe College and volun-teering at the St. Francis House.Former City Commission, 
mayor candidate arrested
Angulo
NewsState
SEE SCOTT, p AGE 4News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 66 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Safid Deen, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Spirit Night
Today, 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.Chick-fil-A on Archer Road Benefiting Preston Winslow’s bone marrow transplant. Twenty percent of all sales will go directly to the Winslow family. Email prestonsleague@gmail.com for more informa-tion or to get a flier for dona-tion. 
PAM Drag Show
Today, 8 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomHosted by Jujubee, Pride Awareness Month’s “The Diva Wears Prada, a Drag Show” will feature drag queens from “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” drag 
kings, UF students and com-
munity members strutting 
down the catwalk. The show is open to the public and free of charge. Visit ufpam.org for 
more information.
Europe at the Harn
Today, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Harn Museum of Art
Some of the fun activities 
include Make a Postcard of 
Europe, Art Meets Music and mini language lessons.The Mystery of the Missing 
Masterpiece is an in-gallery 
mystery for visitors to solve. 
It’s up to them to discover who stole a missing work of art from the Harn, why they took it and where they’ve hidden it. Get started now by viewing the videos at the Harn’s Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/HarnMuseumofArt. 
Tie Dye for Tissue Donation
Thursday, 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasCome celebrate Donate Life Month with Get Carded by tie-dying free t-shirts donated by LifeSouth. Sign up to be an organ and tissue donor, and help UF win the collegiate donor registration challenge. More than 1 million tissue transplants are done each year, and the surgical need for tissue has been rising steadily. One tissue donor can help 50 people.
A Starry Night: The 
MasqueradeFriday, 8:30 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomPut on a mask for Pride Awareness Month’s Masquerade. Free food and refreshments will be provided as well as a limited supply of masks. Dress to impress. For more information, visit uf-pam.org. 
Gator Stompin’ Pool Party 
Friday, noon to 4 p.m. The EnclaveCome to the official Gator Stompin’ Pool Party hosted by The Vault Nightclub and Pledge 5 Foundation. Free juana State University.”
Fifty-six-year-old Ray Logan 
has been growing marijuana for 30 years, but when he started it was a recreational and illegal hobby. Now he’s taking advan-tage of Maine’s medical mari-juana law to share his expertise legally.
He taught his first class ear -
lier this month in Portland. More classes are scheduled.
The Portland Press Herald 
says Logan is offering three-hour workshops for people who want to learn how to grow high-quali-ty marijuana in their homes.
Maine’s medical marijuana 
law allows registered patients, caregivers and dispensaries to grow marijuana to treat certain medical conditions.
To avoid conflicts with po-
lice, Logan uses basil rather than 
marijuana in his classes to dem-
onstrate the growing techniques. 
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
INTERNATIONAL
A Czech president to be sent 
thousands of pens
PRAGUE — Some say the pen 
is mightier than the sword. If true, 
Czech President Vaclav Klaus will soon be a very mighty man.
More than 5,000 Czechs have 
signed up to a Facebook campaign to mail pens to the president after a video of him sheepishly pock-eting a pen he took an obvious liking to during an official sign-ing ceremony last week in Chile became widely popular on the Internet.
Klaus says it’s customary for 
leaders to keep pens after signing accords. But the manner in which he sized up the pen — encrusted with semiprecious Chilean stones — and then sneakily slipped it into his pocket while he sat at a desk alongside Chilean President Sebastian Pinera has earned him the ridicule of some of his coun-trymen.
“It seemed to me absolutely 
inappropriate to do anything like that during an official ceremony,” said Vojtech Palous, a 23-year-old student of medicine from Prague.
“To do that in front of televi-
sion cameras was just insane.”
Palous said the country’s im-
age will survive, but the video makes the president seem a little weird.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSentry for those who pledge five hours of public service. Come enjoy free food, drinks and music.
LifeSouth and UF Rec Sports 
Blood DriveSaturday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.LifeSouth Community Blood Center on 13th StreetCome out to support the lo-cal community as well as the UF Men’s Rugby Club during its semiannual blood drive. There will be food, re-freshments and car washes for all who donate. For more information, email bstubby@ufl.edu. 
Robot Demonstration
Monday, 2 p.m.New Engineering Building, Harris RotundaTwenty-five students in the Intelligent Machines Design Laboratory course will be presenting their robots and 
two other prize-winning 
robots designed and built at UF. The autonomous mo-bile platforms for the course were designed this semes -
ter. See http://mil.ufl.edu/imdl/robot_info_s11.htm for more info.
Victoria’s Secret PINK 
Collegiate ShowdownEnds April 21The Collegiate Showdown is a bracket-style voting competition during which 59 schools compete to have Victoria’s Secret PINK host its annual Back-to-School Concert at the winning uni-versity. Log in or sign up at vspink.com/pinknation. Votes can be cast once a day. Last year’s winner, West Virginia University, re-ceived a concert with Drake, DJ Irie, PINK model Chanel Iman and tons of prizes.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. 
Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Maine man teaches legal pot 
growing techniques
PORTLAND, Maine — A 
Maine man is teaching people 
how to grow medical marijua-
na at what’s being called “Mari-SUNNY
85/59PARTLY
CLOUDY
86/64THUNDER
STORMS
88/58SUNNY
84/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
87/62MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Members of UF’s Greek commu-
nity are proud to flash their letters — 
and not just the ones on their jerseys and badges.
The average GPA for the Greek 
community for the fall 2010 semester was 3.28, according to the UF Interfra-ternity Council. 
This is slightly higher than the av-
erage university GPA for all students 
that semester, which was 3.27 .
“It’s pretty typical for the Greek 
GPA to be above the all-university 
GPA,” said Jack Causseaux, the asso-
ciate director for Sorority and Frater -
nity Affairs. “It has fluctuated, but it’s 
not out of the ordinary.”The Greek community expects 
their members to have an above-av-
erage GPA, according to Causseaux, 
because scholarship and academics are two of the organization’s main principles.
He said the slightly above-average 
GPA seems to dispel negative Greek 
stereotypes.
“They are not putting 
their academics secondary,” he said. 
Causseaux said the UF Greek com-
munity also has a higher GPA, on average, than Greek communities at other universities.
“People who come here are pleas-
antly surprised by the chapters’ per -
formance on this campus,” Causseaux said.Greek students’ grades 
slightly above averageAROUND GAINESVILLE
By COURTNEY STEINBERG
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new club in Gainesville is giving away 
$2,500 in prizes to celebrate its grand open-
ing.
The festivities at Fubar, once known as 
Silver-Q, will include a beer pong tourna-
ment and scooter raffle Monday at 9 p.m.
The two-story club, 225 W. University 
Ave., was recently renovated and will in-
clude a $100,000 lighting and sound sys-
tem.
Anyone 18 years and older can enter the 
nine-table tournament for $10 a person as long as one team member is 21 or older.
The first through fourth place teams will 
win cash prizes ranging from $50 to $500.
Everyone who attends opening night 
will receive a raffle ticket for a chance to win a $1,500 scooter from New Scooters 4 Less. 
There will be free drinks all night, and 
two live DJs will play a mixture of electro, house and hip-hop music.
The Fubar in Orlando is one of the Uni-
versity of Central Florida’s most popular 
bars, so the owner, Matt Merdian, 35, decid-
ed to open one in downtown Gainesville.He said someone would have to go to 
Los Angeles or Las Vegas to be able to expe-
rience the same kind of light show his club 
will provide.
Monday nights will be called Mug Night 
Mondays, where there will be weekly $250 
beer pong tournaments. 
Aside from opening night, the cover will 
cost $9 to receive a Fubar mug and unlim-ited drinks.
“We’ll be having the most ridiculous 
drink specials that Gainesville has ever 
seen,” Merdian said.
The club is non-smoking, which he said 
allows for a healthier environment.
“Most people generally do appreciate 
not having to feel like they have to burn their clothes, shave their head and scrape 
their skin off at the end of the night,” Merd-ian said.New club opens downtown
“We’ll be having the most           
ridiculous drink specials that 
Gainesville has ever seen.” 
Matt Merdian
Bar owner
GreekLife4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Virgil Mathis, a UF student, speaks out against block tuition in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on 
Wednesday. Mathis, who works full time and doesn’t receive scholarships, was considered “atypical” by UF Provost Joe Glover during an Academic Issues Forum.
UF ADMINISTRATION
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer 
In an effort to calm tensions that 
have risen  between university ad-
ministration and some UF students, UF Provost Joe Glover and Student 
Body President-elect Ben Meyers 
took to the podium Wednesday.
Speaking to a crowd of about 
25 students, the two answered questions regarding block tuition, tuition increases and the overall fu-
ture of UF. 
Block tuition would charge a 
flat-rate tuition fee for 15 credit hours, even if students take 12 or 18 
hours. 
Meyers said it’s always great to 
see students and administration create a dialogue.
He said administrators and stu-
dents have the same desire to do what is best for the university on all issues. 
Students in the crowd dis-
agreed. 
They asked questions about un-
even student -to- teacher ratios and tuition increases, but block tuition still remained a concern for some 
students. “My purpose is not to sell [block 
tuition] to you today,” Glover said.
He tried to explain the issue and 
how it would affect specific cases. 
He said block tuition would not 
be imposed on graduate students 
and it would apply only for the fall and spring semesters. Also, block 
tuition would affect only full-time 
students or students who take 12 or more credit hours a semester.
Glover said some of the best 
initiatives the university has taken have been opposed by students at 
first.
“People fought like crazy against 
critical tracking,” he said referring to the system that requires all stu-
dents to meet certain GPA and class requirements to graduate. 
Glover was also asked what the 
revenue from the tuition increases of the past year and years to come will be used for.
“The general answer to that is: 
The president always decides,” he said. 
But he assured the group that 
$10 million  generated from the tu-ition increase will be used to hire 
new faculty this year.Provost, president-elect discuss tuition increases
 HIS PLAN IS TO REDUCE THE 
DEFICIT BY $4 TRILLION.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — President Barack 
Obama coupled a call for $4 trillion in long-
term deficit reductions with a blistering at-
tack on Republican plans for taxes, Medicare 
and Medicaid on Wednesday, laying down markers for a roiling debate in Congress and the 2012 presidential campaign to come.
Obama said spending cuts and higher 
taxes alike must be part of any deficit-re-duction plan, including an end to Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy. He proposed an un-specified “debt failsafe” that would go into 
effect if Congress failed to make sure the na-
tional debt would be falling by 2014 relative to the size of the overall economy.
“We have to live within our means, re-
duce our deficit and get back on a path that 
will allow us to pay down our debt,” the 
president said in a speech at George Wash-ington University a few blocks from the White House. “And we have to do it in a 
way that protects the recovery, and protects 
the investments we need to grow, create jobs and win the future.”
Obama’s speech was salted with calls for 
bipartisanship, but also bristled with attacks 
on Republicans. They want to “end Medi-
care as we know it,” he said, and to extend tax cuts for the wealthy while demanding 33 million seniors pay more for health care.
“That’s not right, and it’s not going to hap-
pen as long as I am president,” he vowed.
Obama spoke to an audience that in-cluded Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., author of the 
House Republican budget that drew repeat-
ed presidential scorn. The Budget Commit-tee chairman later told reporters he had been excited to receive an invitation to the speech, 
believing the administration was extending 
an olive branch.
“Instead, what we got 
was a speech that was 
excessively partisan, dra-
matically inaccurate and 
hopelessly inadequate to 
addressing our country’s pressing fiscal challeng-
es,” Ryan said. “What we 
heard today was not fiscal leadership from 
our commander in chief. What we heard to-day was a political broadside from our cam-paigner in chief.”Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, noted that 
the administration has asked Congress to raise the debt limit, but said, “the American 
people will not stand for that unless it is ac-
companied by serious action to reduce our deficit. More promises, hollow targets and Washington commissions simply won’t get 
the job done.”
The president spoke less than a week af-
ter he reached a compromise with Boehner 
on an unprecedented package of $38 billion in spending cuts for this year just in time to 
avoid a partial government shutdown. Both 
houses of Congress are expected to pass the measure in the next 24 hours or so, closing the books on the current budget year and 
clearing the way for a far more defining de-
bate about the size and shape of the govern-ment. Obama: Cut spending, raise taxes on the wealthy
Boehner
Polls indicate that Democrat Alex Sink would win in a rematch 
who said they voted for Scott also 
indicated they would switch to Sink, and 21 percent of Republi-cans said the same. 
Despite the fact that November 
2010 exit polls expected Scott to win the independent vote by eight points, the March poll indicated that in a rematch Sink would score the independents’ support by a 61-29 margin of victory.
While Democrats’ dislike of 
Scott comes as no surprise, there is concern that Scott’s scruples with 
Republicans in the legislature and 
his actions concerning the budget may have caused some Republican voters to falter in their support for the new governor.
Former chair of the UF College Republicans and current UF law student Bryan Griffin said although Scott’s recent actions cannot please every Republican, let alone every Florida resident, they are the nec-essary moves for a state burdened with economic woes.
“He has done what is necessary 
to make sure Florida doesn’t find 
itself in a worse-off place finan-
cially,” he said. ”He’s following through with his campaign prom-ises.”
Griffin said sliding poll numbers 
should not be taken as an ultimate indicator of Florida voters turning their backs on Scott, as such data could be considered questionable 
given the number of those willing 
to answer the approval rating polls who already have a bias in mind. 
Nevertheless, he believes the 
favorable fiscal results Scott will bring to the state by the end of his tenure will trump the backlash his administration is feeling now.
Christine Pratt, a UF law student 
and a registered Republican who voted for Scott, said in an email in-terview that she supports his bud-get cuts because, while painful at first, they will improve Florida in 
the long run. 
When she gradu-
ates in May, she hopes to practice 
law for a government agency and knows she’ll feel the sting of those cuts when she applies for those jobs. 
“But Rick Scott isn’t imple-
menting these cuts to be evil and miserly,” she said. “He’s trying to do the right thing — he’s trying to keep the State of Florida out of bankruptcy,”Kenneth Wald, a distinguished 
professor of political science at UF, said the problems between Scott and the Republicans in the Legis-lature arise from his inexperience with political office and the need to listen to other officials, Wald said. 
“He is trying to run the state as 
if it were a corporation, and the re-
ality is you have a board of direc-
tors in the Legislature that wants [to be] deeply involved,” he said. 
Albert Matheny, associate dean 
of the UF College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and a political science professor, said in an email inter -
view it is unclear how Republicans will handle Scott. 
His campaign stance that con-
ventional politics pitting Repub-licans against Democrats are a problem in Florida made him un-popular with traditional Republi-can leaders in Tallahassee.
Scott’s failure to consult Repub-
lican officials in the state capital about his initiatives and his disre-gard for their input will probably upset even the most conservative Republicans, he said. 
Wald said Scott’s ideologies are 
more in line with the Tea Party than 
the Republican Party as a whole. 
If he appears to defer to a single 
political faction like the Tea Par -
tiers, it could backfire by alienating 
more moderate Republicans. 
“We’ve seen Republicans dump 
governors who they felt were too far moderate,” Wald said. “Wheth-er they would dump somebody 
who’s too far to the right (is un-
certain)…we haven’t seen that be-fore.”
Alligator Staff Writer CJ Pruner 
contributed to this report. 
SCOTT , from page 1
NewsStateBy ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
In the pitch dark of the Phillips Center Black Box The-
atre, a group of 18 students stands in a half-circle, hum-
ming.
Ever so slowly, the hum becomes more discernible.
“Wen-o-way-ooh-way,” they repeat.
More voices chime in. The beat builds onto the harmo-
ny. Then come the words.
A song emerges. It’s “Wake Up” by Arcade Fire. 
Just as the song takes shape, they stop; waved off by 
the arm of Christopher Rienas, who stands about 10 paces 
away among the theater seats.
“Can you hear me?” one singer asks out of the cluster.“Yes,” Rienas says.
“Can you hear the bass mic?” asks another.
“Yes.”With another wave of his hand, Rienas sends them back-
stage for final adjustments. 
This was just a snippet of the hour-and-a-half perfor -
mance Wednesday night. The show marked the release of No Southern Accent’s CD, “Group Therapy.” The next show is scheduled for Sunday at 2 p.m.
The group sang and beat-boxed 14 songs ranging from 
“Heavy in Your Arms” by Florence and the Machine to James Taylor’s “That Lonesome Road.”
Over the past year, the group recorded the CD in Rie-
nas’ roommate’s closet.
He said members spent 180 hours recording before the 
CD’s release in hard copy and on iTunes.
The night also marked the beginning of the end for its 
senior members.
After four years of 10-hour-a-week practices, UF senior 
Mallory Zuckerman said she’ll miss those moments when the group “gelled.”
When she missed the first round of auditions as a fresh-
man, she remembers sending an email to the group, beg-ging for a second chance. If the group gave her an opportu-nity to sing, she wrote, it “wouldn’t regret it.”
Zuckerman said members took her email as over-confi-
dent. When she came in to audition, she said, they wanted her to mess up.
She didn’t.She became one of the two female tenors to make it out 
of the 50 auditioning.
Now, she said, she’s closer than ever to the group.“They’re my soulmates,” she said.
Reflecting on those moments at the end of the show, 
Zuckerman looked as though she might choke up.
She finally found the word to describe her time.
“It’s wonderful,” she said.THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Alex Orlando/Alligator Staff
UF senior Mallory Zuckerman leads the rest of No Southern Accent, a co-ed a cappella group, Wednesday night at 
the Phillips Center for Performing Arts to mark the release of the group’s CD, “Group Therapy.”
No Southern Accent concert celebrates CD release
The group spent 180 hours recording the CDThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: With the average UF GPA at a 3.27, do you think classes are too easy? 23% YES77% NO
116 TOTAL VOTESWednesday’s question: Would you vote for Donald Trump?Lesson in Slavery
Teachers get put into 
some tough positions, and we’re not even 
talking about questions about unions or budget cuts. 
They have to find ways 
to drive home the most 
important concepts in our 
society, and those often 
bypass the three R’s. How do you teach a child about slavery, a long blemish on 
our country’s record? How 
do you get them to under -
stand such a grand scale of injustice?
Dividing your class by 
race and role-playing pur -
chasing slaves probably won’t drive the point home, as Virginia fourth-grade 
teacher Jessica Boyle now 
knows. 
Her April 1 lesson came under fire from angered parents. We understand the outcry, but although it seems like a stupid mistake, 
we feel for Boyle, too. 
Kids often can’t see how 
something would affect 
them until it happens to them, as the teacher knew. 
However, the division by 
race just gives  white chil-dren the wrong message: It’s not my history and not 
my problem. 
She should have taken 
a different approach and 
categorized the children randomly. The worst road 
to take, however, is to gloss 
over the topic with a quick mention. Slavery is and will continue to be a touchy 
subject for our country, but 
we have to address it.
Warping Time
China’s stance on TV 
time travel ridiculous
Picture our television shows and movies swept clean 
of any element that “disrespects history.” According the Chinese government, which apparently is trying 
to make historical scholars out of its populace, shows and movies shouldn’t include elements of time travel lest they change the look of history.
There’s obvious hypocrisy in that statement when made 
by a government that won’t let its people research uprisings against it. Beyond that, hearing about this policy made us wonder what that change would look like in the U.S. Of course, we’d be bereft of such high-brow concepts as driv-ing cars at insane speeds toward town halls and having 
Terminators appearing naked in little energy balls on LA 
streets.
But beyond that, we can think of countless other instanc-
es in which writers have “disrespected history” by trying to 
spice it up to entice viewers to watch something they other -
wise may not. Have you ever watched “The Tudors”? 
As dismayed as we are when we see blatant sensational-
izing of history a la “The Kennedys,” we understand the ar -
tistic license allowed to writers making shows or film. This is their view of history, even if that means turning it into a 
soap opera. Such a presentation may interest more people in learning about the time period and people portrayed. As for the time travel, that helps put the viewer in the midst of 
the story and given era. We’re not saying “Bill and Ted’s 
Excellent Adventure” was brilliant, but we can see the ap-peal behind it. 
And, note to China, putting embellishments on a story 
loosely based on real events is far less offensive than ban-
ning people from seeing the facts altogether.
Obama charts middle ground on deficit
On the heels of an 11th-hour deal late Friday night that 
averted a government shutdown, the real debate has only now begun. Debate over the debt ceiling 
will be heating up; if we stay on the current course, the U.S. will reach the maximum borrowing limit of $14.31 trillion by 
mid-May. Additionally, the fiscal budget for 2011-2012 will 
be taking place. The reality of the situation is that the only remedy would be major cuts, coupled with tax increases. However, many on the right say we only have a spending problem and not a revenue problem, and many on the left refuse to cut spending in favor of only raising taxes. 
President Barack Obama finally embraced main sugges-
tions from his National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, headed by former Republican Sen. Alan Simp-
son and Erskine Bowles, a former Chief of Staff to former 
President Bill Clinton. Obama needs to embrace the Bowles and Simpson plan. 
The plan achieves fiscal sustainability and an almost even 
split of tax increases and program cuts. In regards to taxes, the plan would remove many of the tax deductions while lowering the overall tax rate among all Americans. Another novel idea I believe in is a reform of the tax code where the billionaires are not grouped with those making $250,000. Ad-
ditionally , the plan will require cuts in the non-discretionary 
budget from the U.S. Department of Agriculture to the De-partment of Energy . Obama plans a $400-billion cut over the next 12 years as well as a pronounced decrease in defense spending. The goal is to reduce the national debt by $4 tril-lion over the next 12 years.
The Republicans are banking on Wisconsin Rep. Paul 
Ryan and his “Path to Prosperity ,” which would eviscerate branches of the government that the majority of Americans 
approve of, such as Education and Labor. The cuts from the 
non-discretionary budget here would be well over $1.6 tril-lion, despite the fact that these programs are the most critical to most Americans. The “Path to Prosperity” also keeps the defense budget untouched despite the foreseeable mitiga-tions in both the Iraq and Afghan-istan wars. Additionally , Paul’s reform would raise taxes for 95 percent of Americans. 
It appears Obama has the peo-
ple on his side, as a Gallup poll released today showed that 60 percent of Americans favor a tax increase on the highest income bracket and are apprehensive 
about slashing domestic programs with a plurality against cutting them. 
With regards to Social Security, the best plan would be to 
raise the age gradually from 67 to 69 and demand that the 
highest income bracket contribute more. The Republicans’ 
path for prosperity ignores any means of rectifying the im-peding long-term solvency of the program. Obama is correct when it comes to the plan using Medicare’s large size as le-verage against higher prescription prices. 
Regarding the debt ceiling, the limit was more than dou-
bled from below $6 trillion in 2001 to over $12 trillion by the end of 2008. Since the financial downturn, the ceiling is now $14 trillion. Finally , there seems to be some real apprehension 
about raising the limit. But those on the right have the wrong 
idea; they believe simply not raising the limit would fail to bring about any repercussions. The fact is the limit needs to be raised but large cuts must also be  made to prevent an increase of the limit further down the road. A fiscally savvy budget for the 2011-2012 fiscal year will be the first step to sustainability.
Obama’s plan will anger many on the left and even more 
on the right, but it is the only viable way to set the country on 
the correct path. Hopefully , those in Congress will be shrewd 
enough to do what is best for us all and not make a budget built on social issues and derision. 
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering major. 
His columns appear on Thursdays.
Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.org
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
No one wants to be tolerated
The LGBT community doesn’t really care 
about tolerance. This couldn’t be any clearer 
after their reaction to Chick-fil-A.
Tolerance implies allowing or suffering 
through something you disagree with. The 
owners of Chick-fil-A practice tolerance daily 
in employing and serving members of the 
LGBT community and treating them with the 
same respect they offer to those who hold their Christian values.
Yet not one word suggesting tolerance was 
raised when the LGBT community discovered 
Chick-fil-A had the audacity to hold a moral 
belief different from their own. So much for their vaunted tolerance. Their plea for toler -
ance is a sham. A tolerant world makes allow-
ance for disapproval of others’ actions without 
being called a bigot or a hatemonger.
What the LGBT community wants is open 
approval and vigorous acclaim, as Megan Bis-
sell’s column on Wednesday made clear.
Her world makes no allowance for be-
ing accepted or valued if her actions are not heartily commended. Nothing will satisfy the 
LGBT community but wholesale support and 
praise.
Megan, though I do not know you, I do 
value your life despite my inability to approve 
of the way you choose to live it. Your worth 
comes from your humanity, not your sexual-
ity . Love and disapproval are not mutually 
exclusive. Just ask the father who checks his 
alcoholic son into rehab.
Can you tolerate that?
Andrew Robb
UF Student
n n nlChick-fil-A not anti-gay
If Megan Bissell labels herself as an angry 
lesbian, I’d have to label myself as a broken-
hearted Christian. Why? Because it sucks that our world breeds angry people, let alone angry lesbians, and it sucks that “Chris-
tians” often have been the least compassion -
ate of all. For that, I’m sorry. Jesus’ message 
was uncompromising and offensive, yet the soft-hearted flocked to Him because of His supernatural love. I regret that many “Chris-tians” don’t follow His example.
As it concerns the WinShape Organiza-
tion and Chick-fil-A’s support of it, I must say Bissell’s assertions are over-reaching. 
After examining their websites, I disagree 
with the claim that it is anti-gay and would advise others to look for themselves. West-boro Baptist Church is anti-gay; WinShape is pro-Jesus. Their mission is to impact the world around them by cultivating leaders who have been revolutionized by the mes-sage of Jesus. Via marriage, college and fos-ter care, the only thing explicitly promoted 
is the Bible. 
While I sympathize with Megan’s frus-
tration, it does not merit painting an orga-nization as something it clearly is not. When 
questioned on the matter, Chick-fil-A presi-dent Dan Cathy responded with: “We have no agenda against anyone. While my fam-ily and I believe in the Biblical definition of marriage, we love and respect anyone who disagrees.” It is the right of any patron to de-cide whom they will support, but it is intel-lectually dishonest to characterize Chick-fil-
A or WinShape as anti-gay.
Ryan Galloway
4EG
n n nAbortion came as relief from pregnancy
I’d like to thank the Alligator for the cov-
erage of the abortion speakout sponsored by 
the Gainesville chapter of National Women’s 
Liberation.
The article left out parts of my testimony 
that were crucial to fully understanding the 
experience of having an abortion. It was my 
brief pregnancy that made me feel lonely 
and terrified, not the abortion. After my abortion, I felt tremendous relief. Yes, my medical abortion was physically painful, but 
nowhere near as painful as giving birth. The 
entire experience was not as bad as I had 
imagined, and I have no regrets, a sentiment echoed by every woman who spoke out at the event.
Facing an unwanted pregnancy is terrify-
ing. If I had no option but to endure the full pregnancy, the terror would have only inten-sified, as would have my feeling of isolation and desperation to have some control over 
my body and my future. I am now a mother 
of two, and I know how emotionally and 
physically exhausting pregnancy can be. No 
woman ever should be forced to continue 
a pregnancy she does not feel “ready” for. 
Yet, women’s options continue to be limited 
more and more by the state legislature, and 
we need to make our voices heard. 
Whitney Mutch
n n n
Abortion changes lives for the worse
I wanted to respond to the Alligator’s 
April 10 article on the abortion rights event 
at the Civic Center because on April 7, I 
hosted a campus event with UF’s Pro-Life Alliance in the Reitz Colonnade for Florid-
ian women who regretted their abortion, an 
event called “Silent No More,” which WCJB 
TV-20 News featured on the 6 o’clock news. This event, juxtaposed with the women Sat-urday, significantly enlightens the personal repercussions of post-abortion.
 Regardless of your stance on abortion’s 
effect on women, I believe everyone must acknowledge, like Whitney Mutch, that abortion changes the trajectory of one’s 
life. 
At the event, Mary Huston had a similar 
story to these women: She was 19, in col-
lege and pregnant. 
Huston did choose abortion, but her flip-
pancy turned to regret, and 30 years later she admits to the negative effects abortion had on her health (she was unable to con-ceive), her psyche (she spent years as an al-
coholic) and even her current marriage and 
some of the tension with her new husband 
that the abortion caused. 
To be statistically accurate, abortion does 
actually hurt women. A 2006 New Zealand 
study shows 76 percent of post-abortive 
teens experience severe depression, versus 
31 percent of non-abortive teens. Pregnancy should change the trajectory of one’s life.
It’s not Whitney Mutch’s first child’s 
fault that he or she was conceived at an “in-
convenient time.” 
I think our children deserve better. 
Florida’s legislature realizes there is bet-
ter than abortion for our men, women and 
children.
Caroline Pilgrim
UF student
AT&T’s acquisition of its competitor, T-Mobile, will give 
birth to a new juggernaut in the American telecommu-nications industry, producing a company which can 
supposedly better serve its customers by providing a faster and stronger network. But is it really worth risking consumer interests?
The merger between AT&T and T-Mobile, the second- and 
fourth-largest wireless service providers respectively, is expect-
ed to create a duopoly of AT&T and Verizon Wireless, which 
makes the market far more consolidated than necessary. The deal, which is expected to close in a year, makes AT&T by far the largest service provider in the nation with 130 million total subscribers. Various market analysts are raising concerns over the upcoming change in the market.AT&T justified the acquisition 
in a statement on March 20, claim-ing that the acquisition will benefit the customers by “enhancing net-
work capacity, output and quality in near term for both com-panies’ customers.” This statement is realizable as AT&T and T-Mobile have similar technology , and their networks, which already cover large areas of the country, can contribute to each 
other to create an even stronger and faster wireless network.
However, it still seems that consumers have more to lose 
than to gain. The customers may enjoy enhanced services af-
ter the acquisition, but they have to expect a future increase in price when two or three behemoths dominate the market.
Concerns over future price hikes are well-founded. AT&T presents itself as the provider of the highest quality mobile services, which collides with T-Mobile’s brand image as a pro-vider of affordable services. Thus, some of T-Mobile’s more price-efficient contracts may be terminated or altered to main-tain AT&T’s brand image and profit margins. 
In a recent media release by T-Mobile, the company sug-
gested that future rate plans may be subject to a price increase. T-Mobile merely states “all customer contracts entered into 
before the change of ownership will be honored (for their ap-
plicable period),” suggesting the looming possibility that prices may rise in the future.
 In this acquisition, at least for now, the banes seem to out-
weigh the boons.
Washington Square News, New York U. via UWIREAT&T T-Mobile merger raises concerns of a telecom duopolyUWire
Kenny Kyunghoon
UWiretheAvenue         thursday, april 14, 2011
INSIDE: 
ListTheGet to know University Club 
drag queen India Brooks.
Learn how to make some of this 
summer’s best poolside drinks.Check out the Avenue’s summer 
festival roundup.ONLINE:PG 9: Learn more about Sarkara 
Sweets, the vegan-friendly cup-
cake shop located in downtown Gainesville.Also, meet local rhythm-and-blues combo UMRC.PG 10: Learn more about Gainesville’s Southern neigh-bor, Micanopy, as Avenue writer Richard Stehli tours the town to seek its best food and shops.PG 11: Gamer Bait columnist Andrew Wyzan offers one last piece of advice: Buy local. PG 12: Alfred Hitchcock fans, 
preview The Hippodrome’s lat-est production, “The 39 Steps.”In addition, if your fall schedule still isn’t complete, try taking one of these off-beat UF courses.
by LAUREN GOLDLISTEN: “S & M” by Rihanna
Rihanna may be bad, but she’s perfectly 
good at it. Her new song is perfectly catchy, too. The raunchy lyrics will give you a good 
laugh but soon enough you’ll be singing along: 
“Sticks and stones may break my bones…”
SEE: “Scream 4”
This is a must-see. A sequel made more than a decade after its previous installment is always quality. Also, this one’s got a star-
studded cast, including Courteney Cox, Anna 
Paquin and Emma Roberts.
WATCH: “The Paul Reiser 
Show”
Paul Reiser, the lead actor in “Mad About You,” premieres his new comedy at 8:30 p.m. Thursday on NBC. Check out the entertain-
ing trials and tribulations of middle-aged life 
from the famous writer, actor and producer.
DO: Paint the wall on 34th St.
If you haven’t already, buy a few cans of paint and take your friends to paint the wall on 34th Street. It’s one of those things you 
simply must do before you leave Gainesville. 
If you’re graduating, now is the time. If you’re not leaving just yet, why wait?Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Listening to music between classes or while on the bus is an everyday habit for many students, and it’s no 
mystery why: Music is relaxing. However, according to a recent study conducted in Japan, listening to music 
also could help lower blood pressure. (Above: UF philosophy freshman Evan Rippe poses for a photo.)
aural remedy
Study: Music could lower blood pressure 
By THOMAS NASSIFF
avenue contributing writer
When Beau Muniz walks around the UF cam-
pus, he’s almost never seen without his head-
phones.
Muniz, a UF mechanical engineering sopho -
more, is like many students in that he listens to 
music often and uses it to help him relax.
“I usually just listen to music to enjoy it,” Muniz 
said, “but sometimes music is the only thing that 
can really calm me down if I’m mad about some -
thing.”
As it turns out, Muniz may have stumbled natu -
rally onto something more effective than he real-izes.
A recent study conducted at the Osaka Univer -
sity Graduate School of Medicine in Japan indi-cates that listening to music or comedy could do more than release stress or anxiety — it actually could help people on a physical level. 
Led by researcher Eri Eguchi, the study found 
that subjects who participated in bimonthly group sessions of listening to music or comedy saw their blood pressure reduce significantly.
Those who participated in these sessions, 
which consisted of an hour of listening to music or comedy every two weeks, saw their systolic blood pressure drop by an average of five to six points.
Michael Miller, M.D., is the director of preven-
tive cardiology at the University of Maryland Medi-cal Center. According to Miller, that drop in blood pressure could be compared to a similar drop produced by losing 10 pounds, adopting a low-salt 
diet or taking medication to lower blood pressure.
Miller said that although the demonstrated 
drop is somewhat modest, it could help lower the 
risk of death from heart disease or stroke by 5 to 15 percent.
Eguchi said it isn’t clear exactly how music and 
laughter can help lower blood pressure, but he is confident in the study’s findings.
In contrast to the results from the groups that 
received bimonthly treatment, a control group that got no treatment reported no sign of lower blood 
pressure.
“I think there’s definitely 
a physiological effect going on, some sort of mind-heart connection,” Miller told CNN Health.
But Miller cautioned 
against overextending the 
study’s findings, saying he wouldn’t recommend replacing medication with listening to music.  
 However, he said, “It could increase your likelihood of going off medication or reducing the dosage.”  
   So, just how much should students read into these findings? One thing that’s notable is the study subjects’ characteristics: men and women between 40 and 74 years of age.
Jayne Standley, a professor of music therapy 
at Florida State University whose focus is medi-cal music therapy, said that although a wealth of research shows that listening to music can affect people physically, this study still stands out.“Music can affect a number of physiological 
levels,” Standley said. “It can reduce heart rate and help calm anxiety. But this study is unusual because it’s with blood pressure, which usually doesn’t have a response to music.”
Standley said the study was something that 
should interest music lovers of any age.
“People who love music can use it to their ad-
vantage no matter how old they are. It just has to be the individual’s preferred music.”
Clifford Madsen is a colleague of Standley’s at 
FSU. He focuses on perception cognition in music and has years of experience researching physi-ological and psychological effects of music on people.
“We used to think there was a specific music 
that would make people physiologically excited and other music that would calm them down,” Madsen said. “What we’ve found after a lot of re -
search is that it isn’t in the music but rather the association in the music.”
However, Madsen cautioned against taking the 
results of the blood-pressure study too seriously because there always is variation when measuring physiological reactions.
But he said there is one way young people can 
get results. 
“Something that we’ve researched at some 
length is that you’re not going to get any of the ef-fects if you’re multitasking,” Madsen said. “You’ve got to clear out your head and just go with the sounds that are coming in. Background music won’t work the same.” thursday, april 14, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
local food
Downtown cupcake shop serves vegan-friendly fare 
By BRITTANY BRAVE
avenue writer 
Claire Browning had to withdraw 
from college during the spring se -
mester of her senior year. A roller -
blading accident caused her to frac-
ture her back, and she said the time off that followed left her restless. 
Surrounded by business-savvy 
people, Claire, 24, found herself inspired and called her twin sister, Stephanie, in the middle of class.
“Do you want to start a bakery?” 
Claire, co-owner of Gainesville-based Sarkara Sweets, asked. Stephanie agreed, and the pair of UF graduates, who had always loved baking, got started right away.
“I’m glad we did,” Claire said.  
After closing their former business, Yum Cupcakery, in November after about seven months of business, the two sisters decided to revamp 
their cupcake shop, renaming it 
Sarkara Sweets and filling it with 
vegan-friendly fare.
They made the move downtown 
to 201 SW Second Ave. and changed 
the name to make their business a 
more comfortable environment for 
themselves and for their custom-
ers.
Claire said the transition was 
rough, but ever since the move cus-tomers have referred to the new lo -
cation as their “cupcake lounge.”
“Hopefully it’s a slightly more 
enjoyable atmosphere to stay and 
enjoy our treats,” Claire said. 
When it came time for a name 
change, Stephanie said the pair wanted something more identifiable 
with baking but original enough to expand nationally and stand out 
from other chains. 
Sarkara, a Sanskrit word, de-
scribes a natural sugar and taste, 
which Stephanie said fit perfectly with the business’s image and or -
ganic efforts. 
Sarkara Sweets offers 21 kinds 
of ready-made cupcakes for $3 each. Guests can pay an extra 50 cents to customize their cupcakes 
with the shop’s frosting and 40 top-
pings. All ingredients are vegan, 
meaning no included animal prod-
ucts.
Claire said she and her sister 
wanted the business to be a place where diet restrictions wouldn’t in-
terfere with people’s cravings and preferences. 
“We find it depends on the cus-
tomer’s mood or personality type,” 
Claire said. “We don’t want to alien-
ate anyone, especially since our gen-
eration is very much into choice.”
Sarkara Sweets also builds mu -
tual support with Gainesville busi-
nesses by including them in their 
inventory and reaching out for their 
ingredients.
These connections have helped 
to sustain local businesses and 
markets, Stephanie said, all the 
while allowing Sarkara Sweets to 
expand its own flavor and product 
possibilities.
The pair reached out to 
Gainesville Sweets for caramels, and this month they will sell sodas 
provided by E&K Floatz, both of which are local providers.
With another tentative location 
in the works, Stephanie said she’s 
working to collaborate with other 
places.
“We put all this work and effort 
into something that we hope they feel safe and happy eating,” Browning 
said. “There’s a high level of caring 
about the product and the customer.”  
      The shop was chosen to host the Victoria’s Secret PINK Collegiate Showdown today from 6 p.m. to 8 
p.m., where UF currently is ranked 
sixth out of 59 universities compet-
ing to win a free concert. 
Students are welcome to pass 
by the shop, cast votes and receive 
free samples of Victoria’s Secret 
products and complimentary pink 
champagne cupcakes.
Locals escape the day-job blues with casual jam sessions
By BENJAMIN EVANS
avenue writer
Gary Evans’ light was the only one on in the 
cul-de-sac Monday night. From the street, you 
could see heads bobbing through the second-floor window. Indoors, Justin Bieber’s face 
watched over the band from a calendar on the 
wall. 
Welcome to the weekly rehearsal of 10-
piece local music combo Uncle Morty’s Rhythm Cream.
Evans, a clinical psychologist during the 
week, used to be an associate professor of psychology at UF.
Now, along with his regular job, he hosts 
UMRC’s practices at his home and plays drums in the band, which covers rhythm-and-blues, pop and rock tunes.
It can be hard to schedule practices with 
professional schedules, Evans said.
“With 10 people, you get three hours of their life to practice,” he said. “You better use 
it.”
Other band members, who are all local res-
idents, include Tim Ketterson, trumpet; LeVar Thomas, lead vocals; Ken Booth, saxophone; 
Marcy Coleman, vocals; Randy Hensley, gui-
tar; Doug Meyers, trumpet; Joel Schrank, key -
board and vocals; and Kevin Pizzuti, bass.
Evans also shares the stage with his 
wife, Deb Evans. Deb, who works from home, sings backup vocals with Coleman.  
Monday, the band practiced upstairs in a yel-
low-painted room next to where the kids play. 
Past the video games, past the stuffed bear, 
past the framed crayon drawing of ladybugs on the wall, next to the exercise equipment, 
UMRC were set up in a circle.
The practice was casual. It was the kind 
of casual that could come only from a band with no dream other than to have a good time. 
Larry, the neighbor, heard the band from his 
driveway and went upstairs to sit through the practice. Gary Evans, the unofficial band lead-er, gave a couple of tips at the end of songs but 
never more than a few constructive words. 
No one argued about the band’s im-
age; an almost uniform wear of khaki cargo shorts and no shoes seemed to do just fine.  
A few people had beers, but, with the kids 
asleep downstairs, no one got rowdy. Plus, they had to stay on task.
While the band doesn’t 
have plans to pursue music professionally, they do hope 
to keep playing local shows 
and events.
So far, UMRC has played at the Kickin’ Dev -
il Cafe, 2017 NE 27th Ave. in Gainesville, at a charity event, at a holiday party and at a BBQ.
But the gig everyone is waiting for, “the big 
one,” Ketterson said, is Aug. 26, when they play the Bo Diddley Community Plaza in down-
town Gainesville. At rehearsal, the band blew through a set 
of songs including John Mayer’s “Waiting on 
the World to Change” and The B-52s’ “Love Shack.” The backup singers synchronized 
their dance steps while Thomas belted out 
soulful melodies. 
The group found Thomas and saxophone 
player Ken Booth on Craigslist.
Deb Evans said, “We listened [to Thomas] 
and were like, ‘This is the guy we’ve been pray -
ing for.’”
Booth, who said he has been playing the 
saxophone for only two years, is the manager 
of the UF Help Desk’s Application Support 
Center. “I’ve loved it,” Booth said of playing in the band.
Like Gary Evans, Ketterson is a clinical psy -
chologist. Ketterson also brings 30 years of playing experience to the combo.
“We’re weekend warriors,” Ketterson said.For more information on UMRC, visit http://
uncle-morty.com.
10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, april 14, 2011
Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
UF alumnus 
Terrence Taylor 
considers himself a 
suit-and-tie 
kind of guy. 
With most of 
his clothes from 
Express, including 
this army green 
button-down, Taylor 
likes to makes a 
professional first 
impression.
UF industrial and 
systems engineering 
junior Zeidee Pineda 
plans to end this 
semester by wearing 
all the clothes she 
has yet to debut on 
campus, like this 
bold black and white 
print dress. “I am so 
addicted to shopping 
that I had to give it 
up for Lent,” Pineda 
said.For the latest frills, flair and every-
thing fashion, check out what our 
lens caught this week. 
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator StaffFor fresh culture, head to Micanopytravel 
By RICHARD O. STEHLI
avenue writer  
To most of us, Micanopy probably is 
known as “that exit off Interstate 75 just 
south of Gainesville with Cafe Risque.”  
But don’t be fooled: Although Micano -
py is one of the oldest towns in Florida, it also might be one of the neatest.
It’s stuffed to the rafters with trin-
kets, antiques, musical instruments, old books and history, but it’s still a quiet, friendly, slow-paced Southern town. Give it a few hours on a lazy Sat-urday or Sunday afternoon and you’re 
sure to find something that tickles your 
fancy.
To start your journey, I would recom-
mend lunch. Right on U.S. Highway 441, 
just a few minutes past Lake Wauberg, you have two excellent choices: Blue Highway and the Pearl Country Store. The former serves pizza that could give 
Satchel a run for his money.
However, if you’re more in the mood 
for barbecue like I was, go to the Pearl 
Country Store. It may look like a gas 
station, but hidden inside is one heck 
of a good Southern eatery.
While sinking my teeth into a beef 
sandwich that must have weighed a pound — and it wasn’t even the “jum-bo” size — I felt the hectic college life 
back in Gainesville begin to melt away. 
The diners to my right were decked out 
in hunting gear. On my left, a group of 
bikers were out for a joyride. Decorat-ing the ceiling above me hung a model airplane made of Beast cans. You won’t find that sort of decor in Midtown.
My first stop in Micanopy proper 
was the history museum. Housed in-side what used to be a warehouse and a general store, the museum dedicates 
half of its space to the Florida that ex-
isted before white settlement and half to the history of the town of Micanopy. 
Marnelle Cripe, a conservator at the 
museum since its inception 21 years 
ago, said the best thing about the mu -
seum is its dedication to authenticity.
“Everything here is real. We don’t 
use any replicas,” Cripe said. “I work a 
lot with the town archives to make sure everything here is presented correctly, just as it was.”
Next door to the museum is the 
Mosswood Farm Store. Operating out of a centennial cracker-style house, the farm store sells a plethora of prod -
ucts aimed at natural and sustainable 
living. Along with clothesline supplies, 
natural soaps, aromatherapy goods 
and environment-friendly cleaning products, the store sells delicious ar -
tisan breads and pastries. Whether you’re keen on knife-making or totally stoked to build your own brick oven, 
the farm store has the literature you 
need, offering a fantastic selection of 
books on all types of do-it-yourself en-
deavors.
My next stop in town was Leonar -
do’s, billed as a purveyor of “Antiques, 
Junque, and Musical Instruments.” Along with the usual array of knick -
knacks and bric-a-brac, Leonardo’s sells new, used and refurbished instru -
ments. Some real gems among the strings included a 50th anniversary Les Paul, a Resonator mandolin and a solid mahogany Fender ukulele. On 
a cool-instruments-per-square-foot ba-
sis, Leonardo’s is a musical jackpot.
A little farther down the street, I 
encountered another Micanopy main-
stay, The Shop. The Shop is difficult to describe. In a word: stuff. Room af-ter room of it. You want giant ceramic pears? Check. Have a thing for rooster statues? Got ’em in spades. From dec-
orative birdcages to velvet pumpkins 
and everything in between, The Shop puts it all under one roof. Even the furniture is for sale — even though you can hardly see it under the thousands of other eclectic items populating the store.
Marlene Oberst has owned and op-
erated this unique shopping destina-
tion since 1980, and even she isn’t 
quite sure how to classify it.
“It’s all happy things people will en-
joy,” Oberst said. “I can’t call it a gift 
shop or holiday shop, but ever since I opened, it just slowly evolved into — this.”
Along with a slew of antique shops, 
Micanopy also has two used booksell-
ers, a stained glass store, an art gal-
lery, a gorgeous bed and breakfast, 
and a fascinating store selling thou -
sands of cameos.
But the town isn’t just about the 
stores. In truth, you could go online 
and buy any of the things you find here — plus, you probably don’t need an antique butter churn in the first place. There really is more to Micanopy than 
its selection of purchase-worthy mer -
chandise.
There’s a feeling about the place 
that you never would be able to find in 
Gainesville. It’s the TV town you didn’t grow up in but always wish you did, a place full of friendly folks and where everyone knows everyone.
“It’s all  happy things people will 
enjoy. I can’t call it a  gift shop 
or holiday shop, but ever since I  
opened, it just slowly  evolved into 
— this.”
MARLENE OBERST
The Shop owner
Enjoy European art from the Harn collection   Participate in five-minute language lessons
Solve the mystery of the missing painting.  
Become a fan on facebook and learn more  
through our video posts.Sample free food and music
Create your own artThursday 
April 14 
6 – 9 p.m.
Free Admission
SW 34th St. & Hull Rd. across 
from SW Rec Center
www.harn.ufl.eduT ake a  WALKING TOUR  of Europe
This evening is made 
possible by the Center for European Studies in  
addition to the UF Office of the Provost, Honors Program and Student Government
. 
 
image: Antoni Tapies  
Encarnacio del Peu 
1999, gift of Irma Braman
UNIVERSIT Y OF FL ORID AhHA R N  MUSEUM  OF  AR T
UNIVERSIT Y OF FL ORID AhHA R N  MUSEUM  OF  AR Tat the Harn  
Museum of Art
  All is not well in the Mushroom Kingdom. There 
is a boogeyman in the gaming industry — an un-spoken Cthulhu-like horror that threatens to 
derail all the progress the industry has made over the years should it fully awaken from its slumber.     And, the most unfortunate thing about this threat is that for much of the mainstream audience, this boogeyman is 
the face of the industry and is as strong and terrible as the 
mightiest of American corporations.
  I’m referring to GameStop.  GameStop is the deﬁ  nition of a monopoly, and, as such, 
it has more power in the industry than any of the world’s big-
gest publishers like EA or Activision. The company can con-
trol what games are sold to consumers and, most dangerous in the long run, limit the proﬁ  ts made by the game makers themselves.
  For the company’s 2010 ﬁ  nancial year, ending  Jan. 29, 
GameStop reported a record-high sales ﬁ  gure of $9.47 bil-lion with sales of used games totaling $2.47 billion. That’s one hell of a piece of the pie graph.
  I don’t need to shout statistics to conﬁ  dently say near-
ly everyone reading this column has bought a used game from GameStop. When someone buys a used copy of “Call of Duty: Black Ops” for $5 less than a new copy, nei-
ther the publisher nor the developer 
sees that money. The proﬁ  t GameStop earns from selling a $45 used game is a heavy chunk of change. 
See the problem?  Now, imagine not every game is 
“Call of Duty,” which is published by the world’s largest publisher and has 
a large enough fan base to guarantee a proﬁ  t. Smaller titles 
by independent studios don’t have the brand recognition and 
marketing funds to have a large presence on GameStop’s shelves. What if “Angry Birds” was sold at GameStop and sold only 1,000 units, 900 of those being used sales? With 
only 100 of those units actually bringing in money for the 
studio, the game likely would be considered a failure. Mean-while, those 900 units sold used is added to GameStop’s ever-growing pile of cash. This type of monopoly is dangerous to every independent developer and publisher in the indus-
try.  Whether you like GameStop or not, I think it’s a great idea 
to support local and independent businesses.
 And, luckily, Gainesville has its very own independent 
game retailer.
  R.U. Game?, 5186 SW 34th St., sells used games  but with 
a much smaller stock and at fairer prices than GameStop 
does, not to mention it has a mind-blowing selection of clas-
sic games and consoles that GameStop doesn’t  carry. The 
store even offers students a 10 percent discount for used games (so no need to spend $20 on a stupid card), and its trade-in values are signiﬁ  cantly higher than GameStop’s “half-price only if the game came out yesterday” company 
line.
  To be fair, any store that sells used games is limiting the 
proﬁ  ts of the makers of those games, but the ethical implica-
tions of the used game market is a whole other matter.
  The point is just to be aware of where exactly your money 
is going. 
It’s up to you whether you want to give your money to a 
developer who has made some of your favorite games and really has had an impact on your life or to a monopoly that 
cares only about your wallet. thursday, april 14, 2011  u ALLIGATOR, 11
Gamer Bait
  A
ll is not well in the Mushroom Kingdom. There 
Gamer Bait
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistGamers, beware: Monopoly’s not just a game
12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, april 14, 2011
By BRITTANY BRAVE
avenue writer
Ric Rose plays a clown, a hotel 
owner, a train passenger and more. 
He switches roles with the change of a hat or the swift swing of a lad -
der.
He’s one of a cast of four that 
juggles nearly 140 characters dur -
ing 35 scenes of Alfred Hitchcock’s “The 39 Steps.”
From Friday to May 8, The Hip-
podrome Theatre will bring the mystery classic adapted by Patrick Barlow to its stage, with an early viewing tonight at 8.
The two-time Tony Award-win-
ning piece has had successful runs on Broadway and in London after being remade three times for the stage and silver screen since the 
book, by author John Buchan, was 
released in 1915.
The production pokes fun at the 
theatricality of the theater, telling 
the story of Richard Hannay and 
his whimsical encounters through a film noir lens and capturing large acting, speedy choreography and a myriad of dialects. 
Hannay runs from the police 
on an alleged murder charge, all the while letting the illusion of the 39 steps progress the real story — 
his growing romance with Pamela, 
played by Jessica Morris.
Despite its entertainment, Mor -
ris said the cast made it a priority  not to let these antics take away 
from the script’s message.
“They can say it’s the story of 
the 39 steps and the trajectory of 
adventures Hannay lands himself 
in, but it’s about him falling love,” 
Morris said, “not the gimmicks.”
Aside from a 15-minute intermis-
sion, the story speeds through two hours of multitasking for the cast of 
veteran Hipp actors. They were the 
characters, setting and props, as they coordinated their stunts and costume changes and manipulated 
their escape plans and environ-
ment.
A layer of smoke covers the thrust 
stage floor throughout every scene, adding curiosity to the play’s mys-
tery.  A streetlight lets the outdoors 
coexist onstage with the interior of Hannay’s apartment. A picture frame acts as a windowpane, and a 
bright turquoise sheet, tugged and 
tossed, serves as a river.
One minute the three wooden 
chests were the dinner table, and the next, they were Hannay and 
Pamela’s bed as they found them-
selves handcuffed to each other and trying to hide their unusual, se -
cret circumstances. Lauren Caldwell, the show’s di-
rector, has spent 15 years as artis-tic director at the Hipp. 
Caldwell said Hitchcock was a 
part of her early life and inspira-
tion, and she remembers being 
introduced to his half-hour weekly TV program, “Alfred Hitchcock Pres-ents.” She has followed his work ever since.
When it was time to direct, 
Caldwell said it was important for her to stick close to Hitchcock’s ad-aptation more than the others. 
Cast member Justin Sease jug-
gled characters and made a note to familiarize himself with Hitchcock for his role. He said the best part of “The 39 Steps” is that no back -
ground knowledge is necessary to enjoy the show.
“This is my fourth show at the 
Hipp, and they’re all very differ -
ent,” Sease said. “And now I’m do-ing this, when I’m playing about 15 different characters, but you don’t need to have seen the movies to understand.” 
The physicality of the piece 
pokes fun at the illusion of the stage, and for Jason Weiss, who has acted professionally since 1998, 
the play present-ed him with his most strenuous role yet.
The Hippo-
drome picked its season last spring but had 
only two weeks of rehearsal for 
“The 39 Steps,” an unusual amount 
of preparation time for Weiss.   
Every time Weiss stepped on 
stage and into Hannay’s character, he said he left each act with sweat 
sticking to his T-shirt and his body 
begging for rest.
For him, acting with a dialect 
enhances the experience, and, as 
a longtime fan of film noir and Brit-
ish theater, the play spoke to his interests.
“The Brits have more compo -
sure than us,” Weiss said. “The 
best moments are when Hannay 
lets his guard down now and again, and you really see the cast’s chem-istry.” 
It’s the fun of playing Richard 
Hannay that drove him to accept the role, Weiss said, and it’s also a chance to honor Hitchcock while he’s at it. 
“When I found out I had this op-
portunity, I knew I would have fun,” Weiss said. “The day I say, ‘I have to go to work,’ is the day I’ll quit.”
For more information, including 
showtimes and ticket prices, visit http://thehipp.org.Hippodrome cast 
perform Hitchcock 
classic ‘The 39 Steps’
Social media generation seriously lacks social skills 
By TYLER FRANCISCHINE 
avenue contributing columnist 
On a biting, harsh morning 
last November, I was late for 
school. In my haste to get to 
campus on time, I forgot to eat breakfast. Ten minutes into my bike ride down Stadium Road, black spots entered my vision, 
and I broke out into an icy sweat. 
Pedaling my bike seemed to take an enormous amount of ef-fort. Then, I realized — low blood 
sugar and skipping meals was a 
dangerous combination.
The next thing I remember, I 
was lying facedown on the side -
walk near UF’s Riker Hall, my 
bike tires spinning and my bike 
chain a tangled mess. I picked my cheek up off the freezing ce -
ment and saw brown furry boots 
walking over me. They belonged 
to a girl with a matching Eskimo-like hoodie who tiptoed dain-tily around my head. She held a phone close to her face, texting 
furiously. I wondered if she had confused me for some trash on the street — or if she knew she 
was stepping on my hair.
As I shakily stood up, I real-
ized what a joke this Facebook 
generation is. 
For people who pride them-
selves on being connected, 
linked in, hooked up — whatever — there definitely was a lack of face-to-face communication.
My friend Jackie notices it, 
too, especially on the bus to and from campus.
 She told me there’s an un-
spoken code of si-lence among bus riders: You don’t speak to each 
other, and you definitely don’t 
make eye contact. She said this 
generally doesn’t bother her ex-cept when a fellow rider piques her interest.
“I saw this girl with really cool 
shoes, and I wanted to tell her that I liked them,” Jackie told me.  “But I thought she would 
think I was weird, so I pretended not to see her.”
Why does our generation 
have such an aversion to speak -
ing directly to each other? 
The sheer number of “Missed 
Connections” on Craigslist 
speaks to this issue: “To girl on Route 20 bus: I should’ve tried to start a conversation with you;” “To blonde at Club Twenty: I didn’t have the man juice to go 
and talk to you.” Though the lat-
ter woman probably was lucky no guy approached her with any 
“man juice,” it sucks to think  
my peers turn first to technol-ogy instead of to each other.    
  There’s got to be a solution.  
   Here’s my take: Put down your cellphones, and look up at the 
people around you. You may 
find the love of your life is sit-ting next to you on the bus, or you may find someone to shoot 
the breeze with on the Plaza 
between classes. And if you see someone with his or her head on the pavement, don’t tweet about 
it — help the person up.Universities offer kooky classes
u The Science of Harry Potter at Frostburg 
State University and Maple Syrup Making 
at Alfred University are among the off-beat courses offered at U.S. universities.
By SHELBY WEBB
avenue contributing writer
If you long for elementary-school field trips – spe-
cifically ones to exotic, never-before-explored areas 
– Santa Clara University may have a course for you.  
Santa Clara students can take a course called The 
Joy of Garbage, which allows them to visit some of 
the most intriguing landfills and sanitation plants in California.
This course, among others, seems to be part of a 
trend emerging at UF and at other U.S. universities: the offering of unusual, unorthodox and sometimes just plain weird classes.
For example, Cornell offers a course called Tree 
Climbing, the University of Wisconsin offers Elvish, 
the language of “Lord of the Rings,” and Alfred Uni-
versity has a class called Maple Syrup Making.
At UF, quirky courses offered include Plants, Garden-
ing and You; Russian Fairy Tales; and the Queer Theory. 
Perhaps the most classically bizarre course that ex-
ists, Underwater Basket Weaving, is offered at Reed College in Portland, Org., and at the University of California at San Diego. During the course, students learn how to make wicker baskets with a method 
that involves first soaking materials in water.
One can’t help but wonder, what could, say, an 
accounting major learn from taking Underwater Bas-
ket Weaving? 
That’s a question Linda Behar-Horen -
stein, a professor in the UF College of Ed -
ucation, was all too eager to answer. “The basket weaving could increase a person’s 
dexterity and focus their concentration on weav -
ing,” Behar-Horenstein said, “and in some sense 
an accountant must have dexterity and be able to concentrate on one task for a long period of time.”  
She also said English and other creative majors could benefit from taking Underwater Basket Weav -
ing because doing a craft transcends people’s cognition and might open more connections in their brains than when they’re not being creative.  
Indeed, several unconventional classes have 
core themes rooted in standard curriculum.  
Among others, The Science of Harry Potter, offered 
at Frostburg State University, emphasizes using sci-ence to better describe the magical aspects of the Harry Potter series, applying physics to things like 
Quidditch, the series’ signature sport.
Nik Bajorek, a UF English instructor, teaches a 
course that examines how African Americans are 
represented in animated films, TV series, anime, 
comics and graphic novels. 
He said his course helps those who have unre -
lated majors gain critical thinking skills and a new perspective.
“So often students feel locked and only focus on 
their major,” Bajorek said. “But if you take a risk and 
do or learn something unorthodox, you could broad -
en your horizons.”
Mark Lower, a 19-year-old business adminis-
tration major, learned how to use Library West’s resources for research when he enrolled in the UF course called Witches, Trolls and Garden Gnomes.
“I needed another humanities class,” Lower said, 
“and it had a cool name.”
Lower said he still uses the research skills he 
learned in a German culture class and recommends that other students take unusual classes.
“The stuff you learn in these classes is so ran -
dom, and I think you learn more than you would if you were taking a class that you’re familiar with,” he said.“So often students feel locked and only 
focus on their major. But if you take a risk 
and do or learn something unorthodox, you 
could broaden your horizons.”
NIK BAJOREK
UF English instructor
SocialSkillsClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , APRIL 14, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
THE LANDINGS.
3/3 Flats
Move-In Today!
All-Inclusive & ONLY $465
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409 ***
Ask about our Apple TV  special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
ALL-INCLUSIVE LIVING*
3/3: From $444/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
4BR/4BA Countryside @ Univ Apt furn. 
Asking $380/mo. All brms avail. beg. 8/1. Rent inc. cable and wireless internet+util package for elec/water. Contact Chris at 941-726-2204 or raginriv@ufl.edu w/ any ques   4-14-11-11-1
Room 4 Rent
Clean, Dependable, FemaleRef/ReqCall after 5 352-281-1461   4-14-11-5-1
Take over my Fall 2011 lease at Canopy!1/1 in a 2/2, $605/month, all inclusive. 12 month lease. Better rate than you'll get signing a new lease! Going to study abroad instead, call Marlina, 352-281-1978.   4-14-5-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
4-20-11-10-1
GRADUATION WEEKEND RENTALS
fully furnished cabins. $86/$81/$76 per nite. 
15 miles from Gainesville.
www.twinlakesfishcamp.com.
Call 352-466-3194
4-15-11-5-1
Walk to UF. 5bd/3ba house.
Free off-street parking, W/D, wireless, pool. 
Available 7/30/11, yearly lease. No move in 
fee. 
561-427-8383 chelseawitters@ufl.edu    
4-14-11-4-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
3bedroom Starting @ $1019
Amazing townhome with everything included! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-2801   4-20-25-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Now Including Internet !
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
4-20-11-70-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis
●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
4-20-10-70-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
4-20-10-70-2$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
4-20-11-55-2Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     5-10-11-28-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1375 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39374-20-26-2*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
4-20-11-25-2
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!
·         Available NOW and August!
·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
3bedroom $509/personAll inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-24-25
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, 
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dish-
washer, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. 
No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 
16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   
5-12-11-26-2
WALK2UF.COM
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
4-20-24-2
2BR HOUSE 3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! 
Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $850
352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/Sorority 
Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/
heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty 
of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1335
352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2350 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 15
Large 4BR/2BA HOUSES 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, w/
dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plen -
ty of parking! . Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1980 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   4-20-11-21-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    4-20-11-21-2www.Bellaproperties.net
3/2 with study. Walk to UF, hardwood floors, 
fireplace, 2 car garage, full sevice tour
335-5424
4-20-20-2
www.BellaProperties.net
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
4-20-20-2.
WALK TO UF
3 Bed 2 Bath House in upscale Golfview 
Estates near Law School & Athletic fields.
$1400 mo. Aug 1. Call (305) 788-4103    
4-20-11-19-2
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
4-20-11-20-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pristine 
Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, hdwd 
flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/
UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-1458    
4-20-11-16-2
1BR/1BA, large screened-in porch, W/D 
hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $535. Sec 
Dep $535. 3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #3 Please 
call 352-371-3473    4-20-11-14-2MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF & Downtown! 
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 
216 SW 12th Street. 
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA  1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo 
1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry 
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos
4-15-11-11-2 
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
4-20-13-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    5-10-11-14-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net    4-20-11-13-2
FREAKS! Downtown studio/garage apt. 
Window A/C, space heat, off-street park-ing. H2O/sewage incl. On bus lines near Hippodrome. 416 SE 2nd St. $420/mo, 1st, last & sec. Call 352-373-6551    4-18-10-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
CLOSE TO UF - 4BR/2BA HOUSE
914 SW 6th Ave. Cent AC/heat. W/D hk-up. 
$1690/mo. From 8/16, for 1 year. No pets. 359-1508    4-20-11-11-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage. Across from GHFC. 
$1000/mo. Available January. 331-6872   4-19-11-10-2
Close to UF, 2BR/1BA house, W/D, large 
fenced yard. Pets ok. Water incl. Low move-in. Avail Aug 1st. 618 NW 14th Ave. $895/mo. Call 561-703-8490    4-20-11-5-2
1bed/1bath in 3bed/3bath at the polos. rent 
is $410 incl. utilities, cable and internet. fur-nished or unfurnished. available May 1st. call 352 262 7778 or dubroca@ufl.edu   5-10-11-10-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     5-12-11-11-2
3BR/1BA house avail August: cent heat A/C, hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida room, private fenced bkyd. $900/mo. 352-318-5453   4-20-11-9-22BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus 
Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun 
Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 
352-871-7801 pfitz100@yahoo.com   5-10-
11-9-2
1700 sq ft 3BR/2BA House
Wood floors, large screened-in back porch,
jacuzzi, W/D, corner lot $1400/mo Call(352) 258-9116 to see. Available Aug 1st.    4-15-11-5-2
NICE 2BR Apartment in Quadplex
Cent H/AC,W/D hkup, DW, 850 sqft 
2 blks frm NW 13th st & 39th ave
$575/month, Avail Immediately
Call 352-327-8287 & lv message    4-15-5-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south 
UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-
nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    
8-2-11-30-2
A charming, 3 BR/1.5 BA house. Great 
Neighborhood. Close to UF. W/D. Available 
May 6 (flexible). 2 people- $800/mo. 3 peo-
ple - $900/mo. Call Mark: 352-672-4072    
4-15-11-4-2
1/1 Deluxe Top Floor Apartment with W/D in 
unit,Cable, Water, Trash, Sewer Included, 
Screened in porch,Fireplace,Microwave in-
cluded with apartment. Special Rate $664.00 
No deposit needed. Please contact 352-388-
1218 for more info.    4-15-3-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $495, 2BR $585 352-335-0420    5-10-11-7-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420    5-10-
11-7-2
UF 7 blks, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL, HOT 
TUB, 2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park, responsible students or professionals only.  Plasma TV incl. May-Aug $1775/mo; $2175/mo Aug on. Summer only option or yr lease. 352-222-0211   4-19-11-5-2
1617 NW 7th Place - Available for Fall! 3 BR brick bungalow in quiet NW family neighbor -
hood a short bike or walk directly north of UF library. Security system, washer/dryer, gleaming wood floors, fireplace, large fenced backyard, cent. heat & air, large Florida room, off street parking. $1,650 per mo. Please call Tom at 352-215-4990.    4-20-11-5-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
The last issue for the spring 
semester will be on April 20th!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-30-3
$505 Parkside 2 Townhomes, Very close to 
UF (off sorority row), Lease runs May 1- July 31. Bedroom has own bath & private balcony, 1/2 bath downstairs, pay for half of elec  Call Ali 9416282134 or email booie12@ufl.edu    4-15-11-10-3
SUMMER SUBLEASE! Willing to lease for
only $450 a month, that's 25% off a month.
Washer, dryer, personal bath, gourmet
kitchen. Located in Windsor Hall, girl's
building. parking available for half price!
Contact kmeany333@gmail.com
4-15-11-5-3Sublease near UF Sorority Row. Beautiful 
new studio, granite counters, slate shower, 
w/d. Partially furnished. Available 5/1 through 
7/30/11. $699/month Call: Al Raymond 
(352)494-1805 or email: raydad1@msn.com    
4-18-11-5-3
$375/mo REDUCED from $475/mo! Ivy 
House large Double Suite. All inclusive! 
5 minute walk to UF! Jacuzzi tubs! Great 
roommate! Available May thru August. Call 
386-288-8541 or email msherrod@ufl.edu    
4-20-7-3
**379** MAY, JUNE, JULY AT LEXINGTON 
CROSSING! OWN ROOM & BATHROOM 
FULLY FURNISHED. 3 BUS ROUTES. 
UTILITIES INCLUDED. CALL 727.331.3762    
4-19-5-3
$500 / 1BR sublet thru July, can renew.  
Arbor Apts., SW 35th Pl.  Gated patio, all bus 
routes, pool & laundry.  Call 352-327-5871 or 
harrisesarah@gmail.com.    4-20-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 727-726-2915    4-19-11-25-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Directbus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-729-1561   4-20-15-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $369/MOincludes cable, internet, utilities,pool + fitness room and on bus route, Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871     
5-10-11-13-4
Walk to UF. 5bd/3ba house. 2 roommates 
needed, male or female. Free off-street park-ing, W/D, wireless, pool, furnished living room and kitchen. $405/mo. Available 7-30, yearly lease. 561-427-8383    4-15-11-5-4
2 Roommates needed for large 4/2 house 
near Thornebrook Village. $325 & $275. Utilities around $80. 5 min drive to Santa Fe & UF. Washer/dryer fenced in backyard fireplace. Email strny472@gmail.com    4-19-5-4
Clean responsible roommate wanted!
4/2 ~1900SF house. All utilities included.
Convenient location (UF/SFC). Walk-in
closet, pool, grill... $475/month.
Available NOW. Call Erik @ 954-937-9491
4-20-11-5-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
16, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    
4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10KENTE GRADUATION STOLES FOR SALE!  
Celebrate with hand-woven kente stole/sash 
imported from Accra, Ghana.
ONLY 19.99 plus shipping.
Order online – www.afrikandesigns.com; 
email Grace at grace@afrikandesigns.com.    
4-20-11-11-10
Office furniture-desks, filing cabinets, chairs, tables. good condition, used. $10-$50
373-2411; bhoffman_10@hotmail.com
4-15-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-
25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!
All models between $200 - $400 off! All come with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
4-20-11-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $169989 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-1298 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      4-20-11-70-13 
CASH PAID FOR JUNK CARS$200 & up. FREE pick-up.
352-771-6191    4-20-11-11-13City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-
14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-
11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village is 
an Equal Opportunities Employer and a Drug 
Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   4-20-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 17
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full 
time Life Coach positions available in both 
Independent and Assisted Living. Come 
and be a part of our growing team! These 
positions play a support role in planning, or-
ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-
ment program that promotes total health and 
wellness of each resident living here at The 
Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-
ence conducting group programs with strong interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-
sion for working with older adults is a must. In 
addition to experience with social programs, 
individuals with a theology background and/or 
fitness experience are encouraged to apply. 
please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     
5-17-11-27-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
SCOOTER/MOTORCYCLE MECHANIC
PT/FT jobs available. Experience
W/ 2 & 4-stroke motors a must!
Inquire within or call 336-1271
Collin@NS4L.com    4-20-16-14
Computer Programming Internship
Work with local small business to
Expand online presence, update &
build websites, and network. Web
Design experience required.
Collin@NS4L.com for more info.    4-20-16-
14
Video person needed by law firm to shoot & edit videos for posting on firm website & You 
Tube. Resumes to:
robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.    4-15-11-
7-14OFFICE ASST-F/T. Green conscious, book 
lover, passion for writing/knowledge/ fitness. 
Computer fluency. Eye for Detail. Interest in 
MMA a plus. Min. wage to $12/hour.
626 NE 1st St, 32601. Email resume to
paulsrothstein@gmail.com    4-20-11-10-14
CAREGIVER POSITIONS
For Pre-Med, Pre-OT, Pre-PT and Nursing 
students. Call 352-231-0815 for more info.   4-14-6-14
NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses paid;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;
3yr old / 10 mon; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    4-18-
11-8-14
FT NANNY NEEDED AUG for 1yr;
2 boys 10&14;$12/hr; ~ 30 hrs/wk;
+ bonus hrs / $$; must be exp/prof/ref/
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    4-18-
11-8-14
TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS
We are a traditional summer camp in West 
Virginia. We are looking for both male and 
female counselors. Visit www.trcamps.com 
or call 410-833-4080 for more information.  
5-24-11-14-14
Wanted Home Health Aid with a great atti-
tude! Needed for an on going case Please 
call Family Care Givers Today! 352-307-9-
8044   4-14-11-4-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office. Experience 
preferred. Email resume to:snpohani@gmail.com      4-15-11-5-14PT Retail Associate position for non-profit 
organization's Thrift Shop. Some retail ex-
perience reqd. Must be flexible to work Mon 
- Sat, 20-25 hrs/wk. Refs reqd.  Please email 
resume to  office@gainesvillejrleague.org   
4-15-11-5-14
Seeking experienced PROGRAMMER &
WEB DESIGNER to work on new website.
Must have extensive programming experi-
ence & knowledge in HTML/PHP/CSS/SQL
and other relevant web technologies.
Contact Steven @ 305-607-9808 to apply! 
4-19-11-5-14
Seeking part-time Support Technician to 
upkeep and deploy sites built on ASP.
NET, MSSQL, and IIS. Help maintain Active 
Directory, Windows workstations and serv-
ers. Interacts via phone, e-mail, and ticketing 
system. Email hr@352media.com   4-20-11-
6-14
Opus Cafe - Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active
students to work 12 to 30 hours per week
at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting pay is $8.00/hour + tips. 
To apply, go to our website,
www.opus-cafe.com, click on the employ-
ment tab, and follow the directions.
4-20-11-6-14
ATTN SMOKERS!!!!
Need participants for study assessing the
effects of various activities on smoking. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com
5-31-13-14
Group Fitness Instructor wanted - need 
quality instuctor to teach any of the follow -
ing; Zumba, pump, TRX, yoga, Dance and 
spinning. send to resume@baileysgym.com 
or call 352-373-4439    5-10-11-7-14
Mobile Waiters Needed - Immediate 
Interviews. FT or PT, make your own sched-ule, flexible hrs, avg. $10-$14 per hour. Must have own car, cell phone with texting, be 21+. Call 888-334-9675 ext. 0, email blatendesse@d-d-i.com, or go towww.d-d-i.com   4-15-11-3-14
EASIEST PART TIME JOB IN THE WORLD
Work at your own pace, work your own hours, unlimited income potential. Call 352-875-6451 - Ask for Alan.   5-10-11-7-14
FT prof NANNY needed NOW $13/hr;
3 kids under 5;M-F 48hrs;+OT/ wkds; gradswelcomed; refs/bkkg ch; biling. Span/Eng;long term; Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mailresume, pix, to gnv@nanoneone.com    4-15-11-2-14
Assistant to scan photos and newspaper
clips for use in documentary film
project. Also may need help converting
old Umatic tapes into digital files.
Equipment you may have is a plus.
Email Greg at scorekb@hotmail.com
4-20-11-5-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
ARC Lifeguard Training
Starts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    
4-20-11-12-15
CLEANING SERVICES
The Soapranos
Move out or weekly cleanings. Insured and experienced. Call for rates. 352-301-0448    4-20-11-8-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
SERVICE DOGS
Newberry. Autism, PTSD, Companion Dogs. 
Volunteers needed. Non-profit. Puppy-raisers. 330-329-8834 chriswriterbuerki@gmail.com5-24-10-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
●Gluten Intolerance Group Of Gainesville ●
Learn and Share     FIRST MEETING:Sat, April 16, 1-3 PM Gainesville Health & 
Fitness, Newberry Rd. location.
Contact Janet Frank at 352-215-1078 
GIGgainesville@gmail.com     4-15-2-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
OPERATION CATNIP
Spring is in the air and so are cat phero -
mones. We need to hurry and spay as many 
cats as possible before kitten season kicks into high gear! Bring community cats from Alachua County in for FREE spay/neuter on Sunday, April 17th. Operation Catnip wants to spay 3,000 cats in 2011, but we can't do it without you. If you can't make it to the Sunday Spay Day, we can schedule you during the week at a partner clinic for FREE. Don't wait-- make a reservation now! ocgainesville@gmail.com 352.380.0940Drop traps available for loan...4-15-13-24
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42x
Any info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
Sports
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n THE NO. 6 GATORS WILL TAKE ON THE WILD -
CATS TODAY AT 6:30 P.M. IN DIZNEY STADIUM.
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
Each time Mikey Meagher takes her place between a pair 
of familiar orange goalposts, she finds herself up against the 
odds.
No matter how many shots she saves or how tough she is 
in goal, Meagher knows the other team’s scorers will eventu-ally find the back of the net.
“I don’t think a lot of people ever want to step into the goal 
cage in lacrosse,” Florida coach Amanda O’Leary said. “It’s just not a place where too many people want to be.”
The No. 6 Gators (12-1, 3-0 American Lacrosse Conference) 
will square off against No. 2 Northwestern (12-0, 2-0 ALC) at Dizney Stadium tonight at 6:30 for sole possession of the conference lead. Both teams have goalies ranked in the top 10 in the nation for fewest goals allowed but also feature the NCAA leaders in goals (UF’s Kitty Cullen with 61) and points (NU’s Shannon Smith with 72) to challenge them. 
While shutting down prolific scorers like Cullen and Shan-
non would be a tall task for any goalie, keeping a clean sheet for a whole game has proven to be an elusive accomplish-ment in women’s lacrosse this season. Through 554 Division-I games, not a single goalie has managed to seal a shutout.
“You just have to be poised and forget about the shot that 
just went in and worry about the next one,” Meagher said. “Because the more you let yourself get down, it just kind of goes downhill from there.”
As with any team sport, the blame of a goal rarely rests on 
one player’s shoulders. Meagher was able to grab ALC De-fensive Player of the Week honors against Johns Hopkins last Saturday despite giving up 10 goals. With Florida’s offense sputtering for an 11:21 stretch, it was up to the defense to hold firm against the rallying Blue Jays.
“It kind of kept me on my toes to be able to keep going and 
make the next save,” Meagher said. “When my team’s been there for me multiple times, it was my turn to step up and help them out.”
Faced with wave after wave of JHU attacks, Meagher re-
sponded with a school-record 10 saves in the second half after 
GATORS WOMEN’S TENNIS AWARDS UF MEN’S GOLF NEWS PITCHFORD SIGNS WITH FLORIDA UF GYMNASTICS SIGNS SLOAN
n Walter Pitchford signed his national 
letter-of-intent with Florida on Wednes-
day, he announced on Twitter. The 6-foot-9 forward from Grand Rapids, Mich., posted, “Lets just say im an official GATOR!!!”n The Florida gymnastics team 
received a letter-of-intent Wednes-
day from 2009 World Champion -
ships all-around champion and 2008 Olympian Bridget Sloan.n Florida sophomore Lauren Embree was 
named the Southeastern Conference Women’s Tennis Player of the Week, while Sofie Oyen picked up SEC Fresh-man of the Week honors on Wednesday.n On Wednesday, Florida senior golfer 
Andres Echavarria was named a semi -
finalist for the 2011 Ben Hogan Award, the most prestigious honor in men’s college golf. Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore goalkeeper Mikey Meagher is ranked in the top 10 in the nation in goals allowed and hopes to slow down Shannon Smith and No. 2 Northwestern tonight at 6:30 in Dizney Stadium.
Meagher ready for showdown with No. 2 Northwestern
Coming to Jesus moment narrowly misses
“Hey you, Spartacus. 
Take it outside, as-
shole.”  
The aggressor hesitates. One 
bouncer appears, then another. 
I say , “This guy’s history .” 
My customers want to get 
loaded and laid, and I ain’t serv-ing holy water. 
I sit back at the end of my 60-
foot bar and eyeball the entries. Bloated from beer, I switch to co-
gnac. 
A stunning blonde walks in. I 
perk up. She’s better than beauti-
ful — she’s cheap.
“Butch, send that young lady 
a squirt.” 
He says, “Usual line?”I wink. I’m holding court with three 
regulars. I ignore her. Soon as-tonished by my indifference, she 
marches the length of the bar. W e 
swap ame-nities. 
She’s as 
insightful as an oys-
ter. 
She tells 
me she’s 
Lutheran. 
I say , 
“Oh, a fol-
lower of Martin Luther, huh?” 
She snaps, “There’s not one 
black person in my congrega-
tion.” 
“Butch, give us a couple of 
belts of Courvoisier.” 
Many cognacs later, Pam 
blurts, “At 15, I fulfilled every young girl’s fantasy.”
“What was that?” I asked.“I had sex with my best 
friend’s father.”I smile like a child who has 
just been told his dad bought him 
a pony.
We fence verbally.
“I don’t go to motels.”
Yet, later, when I have the 
room key , she asks, “Did you get 
the Egyptian Room?” 
n n n
Monday afternoon at work, 
I’m sleeping when I awake to see probationary fireman Marty San-
tiago.
“What the f*** do you want?” 
V eteran firefighters don’t talk 
to probies until they prove them-selves.
“Bill, do you have three 
kids?”   
“What’s it to you?”“I go to a religious adviser. She By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
A 34-minute audio clip from 
St. Augustine police features 
Erik Murphy and Cody Larson  admitting to underage drinking 
and breaking into a car. 
The two Florida basketball 
players were arrested early Sun-
day morning and charged with third-degree felony burglary . Josh Adel, a 21-year-old team manager, accompanied them and was charged with principal to burglary.
Each has been suspended 
from all team activities by Florida coach Billy Donovan, who said Tuesday he would wait to learn all of the facts before taking fur -
ther disciplinary action.
According 
to the record-ing obtained We d n e s d a y by First Coast 
News, Adel 
and Murphy received mul-
tiple phone calls from Larson in the back of a police cruiser. 
Adel and Murphy urged Lar -
son to turn himself in, according to the recording.Arrest audio releasedSEE LACROSSE, p AGE 20
Bill O’Connor
Confessions of a 
New York Bookie
sports@alligator.org
SEE BILL, p AGE 19Men's
Bask etball
SEE HOOpS, p AGE 20THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
said a heavy gambler I work with has three kids and needs my 
help. She’d like to see you.”
I scan the card. It reads: Trudy , 204 Street. 
Written across it in pen, “7 p.m. Friday .” I stash the card in 
my shirt.
n n n
My next shift is Thursday night, Friday day . Thursday 
night is slow, but Friday we catch a cockloft fire in a string of 
row-frame residences. A cockloft is the open space between a ceiling and a roof. Row-frames have common cocklofts. This 
allows oxygen to spread a fire like smallpox. We fight it for 
four hours.
My shift ended at 6. I need a shower and a beer.Upstairs, the showers are full. I remember there’s a small 
shower in the weight room on the third floor. I start to shave, and there at my feet is Marty’s card.
What the hell’s that doing here? I never use this bathroom. 
Probies clean and mop these bathrooms every morning. 
I’m secular, but I know about odds. This one’s a long shot.  
The address turns out to be a Presbyterian church. The 
buzzer on the huge, foreboding doors produces a Catholic 
nun.  
“You must be Bill.”“Yeah, sister, but I’m shocked to see you. Since when does 
the church believe in fortune tellers?”
“Trudy has visions.”In front of the altar, two chairs await. An overweight wom-
an sits in one. 
Trudy smiles and says, “You must be Bill. Sit. Do you mind 
if I hold your hands? It helps me see things.” 
She clasps my hands, closes her eyes and begins to pray . 
After a few minutes of silence, I start to smirk. Suddenly, she shakes like an epileptic. 
She chants, “Thank you, Jesus. Thank you, Lord. Yes, Lord. 
Yes, Jesus.”  
The smirk leaves my face. I need to get the hell out of here, but her hands are like vices. My body shakes along with my hands. Suddenly, her gyrations cease. Her eyes open. 
She hesitates, then speaks slowly , “Someone is praying for 
you very, very hard. Do you know who it is?”
“My mother.” 
“Praise God. Save God. Thank you, Jesus.” 
Her eyes look toward heaven then fix on me, “You are a 
womanizer, a gambler and a drunk.”
I nod.
“You were in Vietnam, and your brother Timmy died in 
a fire.” 
This sentence blocks my breath. How does she know this?  
I nod.
“Praise God. Thank you, Lord, and thank you, Jesus.” 
She pauses again, glancing upward, “Think back. Think 
way back. You heard something.”
I say , “No.” She’s emphatic. “You heard something that upset you as a 
child — something. Think, think.” She closes her eyes. “Lord, please help him to think.” 
My memory stings like a cracked whip. I remember a little 
boy, awake too early for school, who hears an argument.
A gruff voice yells, “You never wanted Billy. You never 
wanted another child.” 
My mother says, “Why would I want another child after 
the way you acted when Timmy was born?”   
In anger, my mother said I wasn’t wanted.
I never, ever thought of this before. Why am I remembering 
this now? 
I say , “I remember something.” “Thank you, Lord. Praise Jesus.” 
Then, she stops praying and begins shaking, worse than 
before — violent convulsions. Not just her hands, her whole body. 
She’s vibrating. I’m searching for an exit.  
Suddenly, she stops.
Catching her breath, she stares at me and says calmly , 
“When your brother died, you blamed God. You swore to live 
a fast life. You disavowed your creator.”
I’m dumbfounded. I thought it was ironic that Timmy 
burnt to death and I run into 20 fires a week. I also know Viet-nam taught me life is short. 
She continues, “Lord, pray Bill stops gambling, stops 
drinking and straightens out his life. Let’s pray he sees your 
holy light.” 
I’m chanting, “Amen, amen.” But I’m thinking, “I got to 
get a drink.”
Outside the church, I replay the incident. Was that on the 
level? Is there really a God? Is he trying to reach me, rescue me 
— for whom, for me, my mom?  Why does my mother have 
to pray so much? 
Sure, I gamble, drink and do too much drugs, but I don’t 
need prayers. I’m in control. 
I look at my watch. The NBA starts at 7:30. I can bet a few 
basketball games then shoot out to Queens, pick up an eight 
ball and call Pam. I call my bookie.
“Fruity? Billy . What ya got in the NBA?” I bet four games at a nickel apiece — two grand. I need booze, and fast. 
n n n 
At 2 a.m., I’m sitting in my office whacked. I crush a 
Quaalude and use a razorblade to meld it with lines of coke. The NBA games I bet went in the toilet. 
I’m out $2,200 for the evening. Unfazed, I bet three games 
Saturday . More of the same — all in the shithouse. 
Sunday , I bet six games. They all go south. Thirteen straight 
losers, and I’m down over 10 large for the week. 
What’s going on? Ever since that bloody Trudy , not one 
winner.
Monday night, I call Fruity, “What ya got in the NBA?”He says, “All-Star game tomorrow. No baskets tonight. … 
I got hockey .” 
Disgusted, I pull the glass vial from my inside pocket and 
search my other pockets for the cut-off straw, “Hockey? Forget 
about hockey . I mean, shit, Fruity , use your head. 
“What the f*** do I know about hockey?”Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam veteran, former Bronx firefighter 
and pub and restaurant owner. He is a journalism major at UF and a standup comic. The irreverent and acerbic O’Connor performs free 
standup in Gainesville.BILL , from page 18n UF BEAT FIU 8-0 ON 
WEDNESDAY.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
Ten days ago, Hannah Rog-
ers was in the middle of a four-
game winless streak. 
The freshman allowed 29 
earned runs in 24.2 innings during Florida’s six-game los-ing skid.
But with a newfound confi-
dence and better execution of her pitching arsenal, she is back on track. 
The right-hander earned her 
20th win as No. 10 Florida (34-7, 10-6 Southeastern Conference) blanked Florida International (23-21, 9-6 Sun Belt) 8-0 on Wednesday in Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium. 
Rogers tossed her second 
straight two-hit shutout, using 
only 84 pitches to get through six innings and striking out nine batters as her changeup kept hitters off-balance. 
“I’ve been feeling really 
comfortable with my pitches 
lately ,” Rogers said. “We’ve 
been working on them over the weeks, and they’re breaking a lot better.” 
After struggling against 
Georgia and Kentucky, Rog-ers has rebounded with four straight wins. 
Over the last 26 innings, she 
has allowed one run on 14 hits while striking out 32 batters. 
“We’re starting to throw a 
couple different pitches in our sequences,” UF coach Tim Wal-ton said. “She’s really unpre-dictable. The last four games, we haven’t been down. That’s 
been the biggest key for her.” 
While Rogers shut down 
FIU’s lineup, UF’s blend of 
power and speed was too much for the Golden Panthers to handle. 
The Gators wasted no time 
getting on the scoreboard as Michelle Moultrie almost sin-
gle-handedly produced the first 
run of the game. 
The speedy center fielder 
dropped down a perfect bunt in front of home plate, stole second base and advanced to 
third on Aja Paculba’s flyout to 
right. 
Kelsey Bruder walked, and on her attempt to steal second, FIU shortstop Kayla Burri mis-
handled the throw, which al-
lowed Moultrie to score. 
But Moultrie’s biggest play 
of the game didn’t come at the plate or on the base paths. In the second inning, what seemed like a sure hit by FIU cleanup hitter Brie Rojas turned into a defensive gem. 
Rojas laced a hanging line 
drive into right-center field, but Moultrie showcased her speed and made a terrific diving catch, bringing the crowd to its feet. 
“As soon as I saw it off the 
bat, I knew I wanted to catch it, so I was going to do anything I could,” Moultrie said.Florida kept the momentum 
on its side in the bottom of the 
inning when catcher Tiffany 
DeFelice smashed her second home run of the year to left.
Holding on to a two-run 
lead heading into the fourth, UF scored four runs on three hits and two walks to give Rog-ers some breathing room. 
With two outs and the bases 
loaded, Paculba came up with a bases-clearing double to push the score to 6-0. 
Pinch hitting for Kelsey 
Horton, sophomore Saman-tha Holle ended the game by 
crushing a two-run homer off 
the scoreboard to secure a run-rule victory.20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011
UF BASEBALL
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
In Tuesday’s 3-1 loss to Florida State, a 
familiar face was back on No. 4 Florida’s bench. 
Bryson Smith, part of UF’s center field 
platoon who has been suspended indefinitely since a March 13 arrest for driving under the influence, was in uniform for the first-time in 17 games. 
The senior did not play, and according to 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan, his status is still un-clear.When asked about Smith’s future involve-
ment with the team, O’Sullivan responded, “We don’t know that quite yet. We’ll handle that within our team.”
When prompted for a more specific time-
line, O’Sullivan said, “No comment.”
Despite the uncertainty of when the out-
fielder will actually play again, several of Smith’s teammates expressed satisfaction 
about his return. 
“It was great to have him back,” right 
fielder Preston Tucker said. “He’s one of the 
leaders. It changes the attitude of the whole team knowing he’s on the field with us. I know he isn’t playing right now, but he’ll swing momentum when he gets back on the field.”
Smith started nine of UF’s first 16 games 
— and appeared in all but two — batting .345 with eight runs and five RBIs, including a game-winning pinch-hit single against Mi-ami in Florida’s 1-0 win on 
March 5.   
“Bryson is a big part of 
this team,” senior second 
baseman Josh Adams said. 
“Just seeing him on the bench knowing he’s there is kind of a comfort feeling for every-body.”
Smith is one of just three seniors on the 
roster and is viewed by teammates as a vocal leader and valuable piece moving forward. 
“He’s hitting almost .350,” Tucker said. 
“He’s fast and hits for average and power. He’s a great defensive player, too. He adds another right-handed bat in the outfield.”
But Tucker may have spilled the beans 
on Smith’s possible return to action, saying, “That versatility is going to be great against a tough pitching team, against Georgia.”
The Gators will take on the Bulldogs this 
weekend in Athens, Ga., in a three-game se-ries starting Friday.
Smith’s status still unclear after return to dugout
Smith
Harrison Diamond / Alligator
Florida freshman Hannah Rogers throws a pitch during UF’s 8-0 win against FIU at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium on Wednesday. Rogers gave up two hits and struck out nine.
Rogers picks up fourth straight win
Murphy, Adel speculate about Larson’s future at UF in recording
Larson: “I can’t get in trou-
ble.” 
Adel: “I understand that, man, 
but you got to come back.”
Larson: “No, I don’t.” 
Adel: “Yeah, man, you got to.” 
…Adel: “They’re going to find 
you, man. You can’t be a f***ing fugitive.” 
Larson is currently amid a 
two-year probation period stem-ming from a February 2010 inci-dent in which he shared Hydro-codone pills with a high school teammate, leading Murphy and Adel to speculate that his punish-ment would be severe. 
Adel: “Do you understand 
Cody is on probation? He’s going to be kicked off the g** d*** team because of this.”
Murphy: “I know.“As they waited, Murphy sug-
gested a number of ways the group might get out of their pre-dicament, with Adel shooting 
down each one. 
Murphy proposed reporting 
Scarlett O’Hara’s Bar and Res-
taurant for letting them enter underage and also recommended telling police that he, Larson and Adel were looking for a lost wal-
let or playing 
a prank on the employees. 
Adel quickly 
rejected each plan, but Mur -
phy said he was “pulling every-thing out.”
Adel: “That 
makes us look like assholes. That we’re, that you two are wasted and f***ing break in cars. That looks f***ing dumb. “Murphy: “Whatever, bro. I’m 
doing it.” 
Throughout the process, Mur -
phy seemed confident he and 
Adel would be able to get off be-
cause they did not take anything, according to the recording, but Adel countered that St. Augus-tine police would be harsher than law enforcement closer to UF. 
Adel: “We’re not in f***ing 
Gainesville. They (St. Augustine police) don’t give a f***.”
Murphy: “We’re prior good be-
havior. We can get off, but Cody is going to get…”
Adel: “Cody’s f***ed. We’re all f***ed.” 
Adel, who said in the record-
ing he was against the break-in and was not acting as a look-
out, added he believed Murphy 
would get a second chance, while Adel would lose his job. 
Adel: “Do you understand I’ll 
be fired and I have no chance of ever pursuing any type of career in basketball?” 
Murphy: “I’m getting you off. 
I don’t give a f***.” 
Adel: “It doesn’t matter.” The nature of the conversation 
makes it seem they had no knowl-edge they were being recorded.
HOOPS , from page 18just three in the opening period, staving 
off the comeback. 
“Mikey is an elite goalie for sure,” 
O’Leary said. “It’s one of those things 
where she gets out there each and every 
day, and you can see the improvement.”
The last time a Florida goalie faced 
the Wildcats, who won five consecutive 
titles between 2005-2009, she wasn’t able 
to bring her team back into the game.
After just 30 minutes of last season’s 
game, the Gators trailed by 14 goals en 
route to a 19-5 loss. 
“Luckily, Mikey wasn’t in the goal 
last year. Cara [Canington] was in the 
goal,” O’Leary said. “So, Mikey’s go-
ing to go into this in sort of a different situation since she hasn’t been out there seeing those types of shots from North-
western just yet. But she will on Thurs-
day night.”
While Meagher now has the advan-
tage of a vastly improved offense behind 
her, she said the support of Canington 
has helped her deal with the pressure of 
playing a position that almost sets her 
apart from the rest of the team.
“It’s definitely more of an individual 
position,” Meagher said. “That’s why 
Cara and I are there for each other every 
day, letting each other know what’s go-
ing on and what we can improve on.”Canington’s 
support eases goalie’s tension
LACROSSE , from page 18
Murphy
