We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 39 TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida seniors 
Chandler Parsons 
and Alex Tyus 
(right) will be 
honored along with 
Vernon Macklin and 
Adam Allen during 
Senior Day before 
the Gators take on 
Alabama at 7 p.m.
See Story, Page 14.Iowa hen lays ‘egg-normous’ prize
BONAPARTE, Iowa — A hen in southeast Iowa 
has provided its owner with a prize he calls “egg-nor -
mous.”
It’s a 4.1-ounce beauty that’s about twice the size of 
large eggs sold by the dozen in supermarkets.
After it was laid Feb. 18 by an Australorp hen, 37-
year-old Nathan Batten carried the egg around in his 
coat pocket for a couple of days to show his friends. He’s since put it in his refrigerator.
The egg measures 3.5 inches long, 6.5 inches around.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSn A photo spread 
on Page 8 contains 
graphic photos of 
the UF Meat 
Processing Center 
which may offend 
some readers. 
Reader discretion 
is advised.
n THE GAMES ARE HELD EVERY 
FRIDAY.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
Picture a typical Friday at UF. Turlington 
Plaza is filled with its usual crowd of students, 
professors, fraternity members and the oc-
casional shouting preacher. You could find 
this assortment of people walking across the 
pebbled ground of Turlington any day of the 
week. 
But on Fridays, Turlington becomes a 
playground in a UF tradition that has held a six-year reign over a corner of the plaza: four 
square. 
Every Friday, a group of students take over 
one corner of Turlington to play four square 
from 11:30 a.m. well into the evening. They 
might play until 6 p.m. one week and continue until 9 p.m. the next. 
When UF student Eric Martin-Taylor trans-
ferred here his junior year, he quickly discov-
ered the Friday phenomenon. 
“At the time, I had broken up with my girl-
friend of three years and I just needed some-thing to do and to get out of my apartment. Four square has probably been one of the best 
things I’ve done,” Martin-Taylor said. “It’s 
mostly just a really good way to meet people, 
and (it’s) stress relief.”
The rules are simple. There are four squares, 
laid out on the ground with tape or chalk. One 
person stands in each square. 
The person in the designated “king square” 
serves the ball toward a player, who lets it bounce once and then hits it underhanded to-
ward another player. 
This continues until someone lets it bounce 
twice in his or her square or hits the ball out of 
bounds. Players can’t hit the ball overhanded 
and can’t hit it before it bounces.  
When they get out, the next person in line jumps in as all players except the one in the 
king square rotate positions. 
The game gets more complicated when the 
king square person adds rules. One regular 
player started a rule once that everyone had 
to say a different prime number when they hit the ball. Another rule might be that you 
can only hit the ball if you’re standing in the 
shade.  
One of Martin-Taylor’s favorite rules, “in-
ception,” lets players hit the ball in the air be-fore it bounces. 
If there’s a dispute over whether someone 
is out, then a duel between the two players in question decides the outcome.
In the evenings, they’ll sometimes play nine 
square in the center of Turlington. Only twice 
have they had enough players to attempt six-
teen square at the plaza. 
The four square group is always shifting. 
There is a core of students that show up nearly 
every week, while others turn up every once 
in a while and some people with time between 
classes give it a try.
The common denominator among the play-
ers is four square. Some are computer science majors, while others might study astronomy. 
Kevin Fillipps, who graduated in May from 
UF with degrees in marketing and psychol-ogy , started playing four square at Turlington 
when he was a senior at Gainesville’s Eastside 
High School. 
Fillipps, 22, has played since 2006, only a 
year after the tradition began.  When he be-
came a Turlington four square regular, he heard from others that a local church group 
had started playing there in 2005.
Since 2006, the group has grown in size and 
extended its playing time. 
Fillipps, who now works at SumTotal Sys-
tems Inc., a software company in Gainesville, still comes out some Fridays to play after 
work. 
People play four square for fun, but injuries 
Thunder
storms
73/50
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 10
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 14
Daniela Guzman / Alligator
Evan Wasserman hits a ball during a four square recreational match on Turlington 
Plaza on Friday afternoon.
Turlington four square games a tradition
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Susan Bottcher and Rob Zeller don’t seem to have 
much in common. 
Bottcher identifies herself as a Democrat; Zeller is a 
registered Republican. She wants to create jobs by fund-
ing projects like Innovation Gainesville. He wants to cut back on government spending and mainly fund roads and public safety.
So it may not come as much of a surprise to hear that 
they both donated to candidates in other races who be-
long to their respective parties.
Although the Gainesville City 
Commission race is nonpartisan, the two District 3 candidates have shown 
their politics through their platforms.
They donated to candidates in other races — candidates they could work alongside if they are elected in March.
Bottcher donated $150 to Lauren Poe, who is running 
for District 2, and $150 to Thomas Hawkins, a candidate for an at-large seat. Both are currently commissioners.
Zeller donated $500 to Robert Krames, a candidate for 
District 3, and $750 to Don Marsh, another candidate for an at-large seat. He made multiple donations under his 
own name and the names of two of his businesses.
None of the other candidates donated to either Bot-
tcher or Zeller.Bottcher, Zeller donate to fellow candidatesSEE FOUR SQUARE, p AGE 5
SEE FINANCES, p AGE 4City Election sGainesvilleThey gave money to candidates with similar ideasNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 39 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Toastmasters Club Meeting
Today, 5:45 p.m.Entomology Building Room 
1027 
All are welcome. Toastmasters provides a fun and positive atmosphere for members to learn and practice pub-lic speaking and leadership skills. For more information, go to www.toastmasters.org or call Mary at 352-870-2267.
Film Screening of “The Case for 
Israel”Today, 8:30 p.m.Hillel, 2020 W University Avenue
Harvard Law professor Alan 
Dershowitz and other lead-
ing scholars and thinkers 
share the case for the Jewish, Democratic State of Israel. Free pizza will be provided.
Brown Bag Lunch Series
Wednesday, 11 a.m.
Peabody Hall Room 411
UF professor Tace Hedrick ex-
plores gender implications in 
the “Twilight” book series in 
this edition of the Brown Bag Lunch Series. Refreshments will be provided.
Through Their Eyes: The 
Rhythms of West Africa
Wednesday, 11:45 a.m. 
UF International CenterThis presentation will feature 
Mohamed DaCosta, a profes-
sor with the School of Theatre and Dance and the Center for African Studies. Come out to learn more about the music of West Africa from one of the few practice-based cultural authorities on the 
traditional performing arts of 
Africa currently living in the U.S.
Violent Secession: Evidence 
from the Former Soviet UnionWednesday, 11:45 a.m.Turlington Hall 3312
Attend a talk by Scott Feinstein 
and the Center for European Studies. Find out what his re-search has uncovered about Hustle for Humanity 3K/6K
March 26, 8 a.m.
Commuter Lot
The top three runners in the 
men’s division and the wom-en’s division will each win a prize. T-shirts will be pro-vided to the first 25 people who register and food will be provided after the race to all 
participants. Register online 
at ufhabitat.org. It costs $15 to pre-register and $20 on the day of registration. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alliga-
tor.org. Please model your 
submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. 
CLARIFICATIONS
The Florida men’s basketball 
team has already clinched at least a share of the regular-sea-son Southeastern Conference East championship. Losing 
Saturday at Kentucky pre-
vented the Gators from win-ning the title outright — not from securing it, as written in Monday’s Alligator.
An article about a Regional 
Science Bowl that ran on Monday stated that 17 high schools competed. It should 
have said that 17 high school 
teams competed. why some Soviet successor 
states experienced violent 
secessionist rebellion fol-
lowing independence in 
1991. Within ten of these countries, ethnic minorities threatened further rebellion, secession, or violence. However, only five resorted to wide-scale 
violence and civil war in 
pursuit of separatist goals.
DU Got Talent
Thursday, 6:30 p.m.:08 NightclubDelta Upsilon Fraternity is holding its annual talent 
show and competition to 
raise money for the Boys 
and Girls Club of America. 
Everyone is invited to come out, have a good time and raise money for the kids.  Cover is $5 in advance and 
$6 at the door.
A Spring of Hope Meeting
Thursday, 6:15 p.m.  
Matherly Hall Room 14  
Come out to join a great 
cause and enjoy some free pizza and refresh-
ments. Also check out  
the website at aspringof-
hope.org.
Kansas vs. Darwin 
Through FridayLibraries on campusA documentary about the Kansas evolution hearings. In May of 2005, a three-
member subcommittee 
of the Kansas State Board of Education held hear -
ings to determine whether Darwin’s long-held theory of evolution should be chal-lenged in public-school sci-ence curriculum. At stake was, in effect, the definition of science for Kansas school-
children.
PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/59PARTLY
CLOUDY
75/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
73/55PARTLY
CLOUDY
75/53THUNDER
STORMS
73/50
TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
Aundre Larrow / Alligator
Beat The FCAT
Members of the Florida Cicerones show second- through 
fifth-graders at Duval Elementary the moves to a “Beat the FCAT” dance. The dance was accompanied by a song and skit at the “Beat the FCAT” pep rally held on Monday.
LOCAL
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
When a baby is housed in the Shands Neonatal 
Intensive Care Unit, something as simple as grabbing 
dinner gets pushed to the back burner. 
Now, local Publix associates are lending a helping 
hand. 
Running from today until March 26, the date of the 
March of Dimes walk, 13 local Publix store volunteers will provide families of the Shands NICU with hot din-
ners. 
Publix volunteers are either pitching in money of 
their own or buying the food themselves.
Judy Angley, March of Dimes NICU family support 
specialist, said there are babies in Shands from all over 
the state, meaning that their families aren’t exactly close to their own kitchens. 
“We know that it’s very, very difficult for families to 
be away from their homes,” she said. “It’s expensive to 
have to buy all your food all the time.” Each of the stores is committing to two nights of pro-
viding food that will be served on the second floor of 
Shands. 
Westgate Publix store manager Betty Brunson 
launched the new program this year.
“There’s so much focus on the babies through March 
of Dimes,” said Brunson, who has been involved with the March of Dimes for six years. “And you don’t think a lot about the families. We just really wanted to do something for the parents.” 
Betsy Trent, the March of Dimes’ North Central 
Florida executive director, said there will also be an NICU nurse at each of the dinners to provide families with helpful information pertaining to the babies and their conditions.   Publix lends a hand to families
 THE NUMBER OF MALE 
AND FEMALE CUSTOMERS IS ABOUT EQUAL.
By KARA HOLLOWAY
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Some local businesses are re-
porting that more college men are 
using their services.
Local tanning salon Hot Spot 
has seen an increase in tanning sales, said employee Cole Dixon.  The number of customers has gone from about 40 to 50 per day in Janu-ary to 160 per day in February. For the first time, the number of women 
and men visiting the salon are about 
equal. 
Dixon said the increase in pa-
trons is due to people wanting to be bronze for Spring Break. 
“‘Jersey Shore’ 
doesn’t help,” she said. “‘Gym, tan, laundry’ — everybody is talking 
about it.”
Dixon believes the show could 
be a reason for the increase in male 
customers.
She said even though there is an 
influx of customers, the salon still has some regulars that come year-round.“At Hot Spot, we joke around 
and call our frequent customers ‘tanorexics,’” Dixon said.  
For one entry-level tan, Hot Spot 
charges $7 to $20 depending on the bed level, which refers to the watt-age of the bed.
The salon sees all kinds of peo-
ple come in, from high school teens to 50-year-old men.  
LAE Beauty has also seen a 
greater number of male customers, said employee  Lauren Anderson.
The salon sees about triple the 
number of customers during the tanning season, which begins in mid-January and ends at the end of April.Tanning beds fill up in February“We just really wanted to do something 
for the parents.” 
Betty Brunson 
Publix Manager
NewsLocalBy DANIELLE ARNOLD
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 120 UF students 
gathered Monday night in 
the Rion Ballroom to com-memorate the end of Islam Awareness Month.
Ammar Al-Shukry of the 
Al-Maghrib Institute led the ceremony with his speech on college student life and six self-written poems.
After telling an inspira-
tional story in his speech about a visionary in the “march to Medina,” Al-Shukry asked the students about their own visions for the future.
“What is your vision?” 
Al-Shukry said. “You are writing the story of your life 
every single day. What do you want your 
book to say?”
Some students felt really 
connected to Al-Shukry’s po-etry. Zaki Hamad, an electri-cal engineering senior, was one of those students.
“I liked his last poem the 
most because when I closed my eyes and he spoke, I could feel the whole atmo-sphere,” Hamad said.
Ismail Ibn Ali, the presi-
dent of Islam on Campus at UF,  left the ceremony with thought-provoking words.
“The last piece represents 
you. You are all a part of the puzzle,” he said. “Will you make the mosaic part of you?”4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator
UF English major Trimaine Sheffield speaks about the inspirational events he attended this past month at the Black History Month Closing Ceremonies in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Monday night.
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Ammar Al-Shukry, spoken word performer for the Al-Maghrib Institute, speaks 
during the final ceremony for Islamic Awareness Month on Monday night.
By REBECCA DANTA
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s celebration of Black Histo-
ry Month came to a close Monday 
night as students gathered to com-memorate the largest Black History 
Month celebration in the country.
“The month of February may be 
over, but we should continue to cel-
ebrate our history every day,” said 
executive board member Greg Da-
vis as he began the ceremony.
This year’s reception of about 
100 people was interactive and entertaining, said Cecil Duffie, ex-
ecutive director of Black History 
Month. 
Duffie began the event by of-
fering a T-shirt giveaway for those who shared what they learned from 
Black History Month.
A slideshow with pictures of 
students doing everything from receiving free massages to  walk-
ing down a runway for the Fashion 
X-Clusive show was also shown 
to summarize the entire month of 
events.
Joy Scott, a program planner 
for Black History Month, said the 
slideshow reminded her of the time it took to help plan events.
“It was very stressful at times,” 
she said. “But seeing it wrap up 
now reminded me of all the new 
faces I met over the past month 
and that my culture is part of who I am.”
Duffie said the goals of the 
month were not only to entertain people, but also to empower and 
educate through information about 
issues affecting black culture, such 
as sickle-cell disease. Duffie and his 
staff also aimed to collaborate with new organizations on campus more 
this year than in the past.
“Looking back on tonight, we 
have accomplished our goals by 
bridging the gap between other or -
ganizations,” Duffie said. “We also successfully made UF’s celebration 
of Black History Month the largest in the nation.”Closing ceremony marks end of Black History Month
Islam Awareness Month concludes
In terms of donating on party lines, Zeller said that 
wasn’t his motivation. He said both Democrats and 
Republicans have donated to his campaign.
Zeller said since he owns businesses in town, he 
can comfortably donate to candidates with whom he identifies.
“I think we’re similar people,” he said of Krames 
and Marsh.
Bottcher, however, said politics do play a role, 
even in nonpartisan races.
“I think really most people will agree that there is 
no such thing as a no-party race,” she said.
Commissioner Poe, who received 
a donation from Bottcher, said poli-tics usually play a role with dona-tions because activists on both sides 
donate. But he also added that citi-
zens don’t always vote based on party affiliation for local elections.
“I don’t think that translates as 
much into voting,” he said.
Both Zeller and Bottcher said the lack of financial 
support from like-minded candidates is probably tied to the poor economy.
Bottcher said she understands that not everyone 
has the ability to donate.
“It’s tight times,” she said. “I know they support 
me in spirit.”
She also said since Hawkins and Poe are currently 
commissioners, they can’t show bias by donating.
Commissioner Poe said he appreciates Bottcher’s 
support but doesn’t want to burn any bridges.
“You don’t know who you get to work with later 
on,” he said.Zeller says donating 
isn’t about politics; Bottcher disagrees
FINANCES , from page 1ON CAMPUS
Zeller
MulticulturalAffairs“The month of February 
may be over, but we should 
continue to celebrate our 
history every day.”
Greg Davis
executive board member By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
When Nicholas Kristof goes on family vacations, they 
aren’t the ones his daughter’s friends go on. He would rather 
go to the slums of Honduras and dirt-poor countries around the world than to Disney World or the Caribbean.
But in November, he relented.“So, I took her to the Caribbean,” he said, chuckling. “I 
took her to Haiti.”
Kristof, a renowned columnist for the New York Times 
and two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, spoke in front of almost 300 people in Pugh Hall on Monday about the problems 
women and girls face across the globe. The event, called 
“Women: Holding Up Half the Sky,” was hosted by the Bob Graham Center for Public Service.Known for his informative, investigative and eye-open-
ing “spilled-coffee writing” on major issues like the Middle East and human trafficking, he said the future of the world rests in how it takes care of the women in it.
In past centuries, he said, there have always been “cen-
tral moral challenges.” In the 19th century, it was slavery. In the 20th century, it was the issue of totalitarianism. And in the 21st century, the moral challenge is the oppression of women.
“In much of the world, gender discrimination is lethal,” 
he said.
He told stories about a 13-year-old girl giving birth and 
suffering from medical injuries, crawling 30 miles for help. He talked about a woman putting sleeping powder in her 
brothers’ food so she could escape an honor killing because 
she wanted to marry someone they didn’t like.
He also spent a portion of his talk discussing the turmoil 
unfolding in the Middle East. 
Just back from a Middle East trip marked by numerous 
death threats, he said if the world wants to make that region more secure, it must invest in girls’ education and women in the work force. 
“Women and girls are not the problem,” he said. “They 
are the solution.”
He said people often ask him why they should care about 
such issues.
His answer: Go out into the world.“If you see a girl with her eye gouged out or a girl who 
wants to go to school, you don’t ask that question,” he said. 
He encouraged students to go and get out of their com-
fort zones and find a cause to figure out how to make the world a better place. 
 “I hope you will find a cause that will help give you the 
opportunity to change the world just a little bit,” he said.TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof tells a story about an African girl who, because of donations through 
Heifer International, was the first of her village to study abroad and graduate from the University of Kentucky. 
n IT IS FUNDED LARGELY BY 
A DONATION FROM FRED LEVIN. 
By JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students do not have to go 
off campus anymore to see what a 
real courtroom looks like.
The Martin H. Levin Advocacy 
Center, a state-of-the-art facility developed in conjunction with the Fredric G. Levin College of Law, 
opened Thursday.  
The center contains a fully func-tional trial courtroom that will allow students to receive legal training in 
a professional setting.
The courtroom, located on the 
first floor of the center, contains a 98-seat gallery, a bench for seven judges, a judge’s chambers, a jury 
box and attorneys’ tables. Multiple 
flat-screen TVs hang from the ceil-ing of the courtroom, and sections 
are designated for cameras to film 
court proceedings.
Construction of the second floor 
of the center will begin Tuesday or Wednesday. It will include legal research writing offices and class-
rooms featuring small court setups with including a bench, jury box and six-person witness box.
The two-floor, 20,000-square-foot 
center is funded in large part by the latest donation from Fred Levin, the 
law school’s namesake and a 1961 graduate of the law school. Levin’s 
$2 million donation led a group of six do-nors for the project.
“I think the facility 
will make the University of Florida one of the great schools for trial 
practice as it is in so many other ar -
eas,” he said.
Robert Jerry, dean of the law 
school, said the facility has already attracted professionals, including the First District Court of Appeals, 
which recently held two days of oral arguments at the center.  
“[The center] gives our students 
the opportunity to walk from one building to the next and between 
classes watch a live proceeding go-
ing on,” Jerry said.
Classes that previously held 
mock trials in classrooms or the older Bailey Courtroom will now use the advocacy center courtroom.
Jennifer White, president of the 
UF Trial Team, said that law stu-dents are extremely pleased with 
the new facility.“This is a beautiful facility,” 
White said.  “It’s actually more like 
what a lot of courtrooms look like or should be.”
The courtroom will also be used 
as a practice facility for the moot court team and the Trial Team.
UF President Bernie Machen 
spoke at the celebration for the opening of the center on Thursday 
and expressed his optimism con-
cerning the long-term effect the cen-ter will have on the law school.
“It is an exciting time to think 
that future generations of advo-cates will study and be trained right 
here,” he said.
Law school addition includes professional courtroom
New York Times columnist discusses role of women
Students began playing the Friday four square games in 2005
are a reality the players accept. 
Fillipps hit the ground during a game and 
dented his knee once. Another time he dove 
for a ball and partially dislocated his shoul-
der.
“You dive for a ball at any point, you’re 
probably going to fall,” he said. 
Martin-Taylor, 22, hasn’t  injured himself 
as severely as Fillipps has playing four square, 
but he has probably received the most injuries. He’s been scraped and bruised during the 
game countless times.
Four square regulars call Martin-Taylor 
“Safety First” because he wears elbow pads, 
kneepads and gloves when he plays. He also 
brings a couple of first-aid kits with him that 
he received from the UF infirmary during pre-
vious four square-related visits. 
It’s just part of his playing style. “I definitely know how far it is to the in-
firmary from here,” he said while playing on Turlington one Friday.
Martin-Taylor isn’t the only player with 
a nickname. One student who always shows 
up in black clothes and sunglasses earned 
the nickname Neo after the character from 
the Matrix movie series. Another player was 
christened “Retro” because he was older and 
wore shirts emblazoned with that word. 
While the players have fun, Friday four 
square isn’t without its trials. Bicyclists often accidentally ride through their game. Occa-
sionally, people talking on phones wander 
into one of the squares.  
One time, a woman stopped in the middle 
of the four square field to talk on her cell phone, 
then started yelling at the players when a ball 
grazed her, Martin-Taylor said. 
While he understands that sometimes 
people aren’t paying attention, once they walk through the area during a game, there’s a good chance they’ll get hit. 
“Sometimes people get hit. They give us 
the evil eye,” Fillipps said. “We’re kind of out-
casts in some people’s eyes.”
A preacher in Turlington got hit once and 
tried to convince police that the players had 
aimed at him on purpose, Fillipps said.  
Sometimes a ball will fly wild and hit a by-
stander, but the players are quick to apologize, 
Martin-Taylor said. They also have a ‘baby 
rule’ in which they stop playing if a young 
child or stroller is nearby to avoid accidentally 
hitting them.
New players are always welcome at four square. 
Teresa Wren, who transferred to UF this 
spring, was walking through Turlington when she saw people playing and decided to join in 
on the fun. She hadn’t played since middle 
school but loved the game. 
While more men usually play than wom-
en, there are several girls like Teresa who play 
regularly , she said. 
While some of the more experienced play-
ers may use fancy moves, that shouldn’t deter new people from joining in the fun,  Martin-
Taylor said. If someone new joins, players will 
help him get used to the game.
“New people add a new element,” he said.He’s used a variety of strate-
gies to get people to join the game.  
“’Hey you, why don’t you come play?’ doesn’t 
work,” he said. “But surprisingly , pointing at them and saying, ‘YOU! Come play!’ actually 
(does) work.”FOUR SQUARE , from page 1OnCampu s
“Women and girls are not the problem, they 
are the solution.”
Nicholas Kristof
New York Times Columnist
“We’re kind of outcasts in some 
people’s eyes.”
Kevin Fillipps
UF graduateThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Have you ever played four square?Monday’s question: Should the government give funding to Planned Parenthood?
106 TOTAL VOTES51% YES49% NO
We’ve been mentioning our governor’s proposed 
budget cuts here and there, but it’s time to get specific about people on the losing side. Of 
course, most organizations receiving government funding could be counted among the losers, but the money needs to be sheared from somewhere. We just don’t like that people who are already struggling may have their helping 
hands abandon them.
Programs aimed at suicide prevention and helping the 
homeless could be cut, not to mention the funding stripped 
from the medically needy and the elderly. In total, $600 million would be siphoned away from our most vulner -
able citizens. This is simply unacceptable.
Take, for instance, the cuts to funding for the medically 
needy. The state would continue helping people who can-not afford medical bills but aren’t poor enough to qualify 
for Medicaid. It would pay for doctors visits, but would 
neglect to assist with prescriptions or hospital visits. These cuts may sound good in theory, but   many seriously ill people require procedures only performed in hospitals, such as kidney dialysis or cancer treatments. Such proce-
dures are beyond the patients’ abilities to fund, but people 
won’t stop seeking life-saving remedies. Instead, they will flock to hospitals which admit patients without insurance. They will perform the necessary procedures and not re-
ceive a dime from neither the patient, who cannot afford 
to pay, nor the government that would refuse. 
The government’s washing of its hands is not the solu-
tion here.
Some may argue that charitable organizations can help 
ease the burden of out-of-control medical bills for the low-er middle class. In many cases, they do ease the pain, but we must draw the Band-Aid over a deadly wound analogy. In fact, we’re even running out of bandages. The recession 
has hit many charities hard, with people finding it harder 
to dig into their pockets. These factors combined would make for a cruel change for the patients in question.
We do agree with a few of the cuts. We don’t think the 
state should be paying for dentures, eyeglasses or hearing 
aids. These devices improve life immensely, but they don’t 
support life itself. Overall, however, that missing $600 mil-lion is going to hurt those already suffering.
We have to question the logic of politicians focused so 
intensely on only one factor of our society — in this case, the economy — to the detriment of all the others. Perhaps we are just watching the problem at the heart of the Tea Party agenda becoming reality. Maybe we’ve got bleeding hearts for wanting to help the downtrodden. However, we 
must ask if, in the face of these types of cuts, putting the 
economy on the back burner for a moment might be in order.
We should have seen the medical dilemma coming. Af-
ter all, we’ve been in doubt of Scott’s  record from the start because he’s been known to put the bottom line above people’s lives. His choices make us wonder if Floridians would still oppose a small increase in taxes after facing these devastating cuts to the neediest among us. 
These are only proposed measures which must be voted 
upon in the legislature. Floridians still have time to speak up to their leaders. We can do better.Surgical Cuts
Proposed budget targets 
most vulnerable 
Chain looks to fix what isn’t broken
Starting in March, Starbucks customers will experi-
ence a slight alteration to their experience in the form of an updated logo. Starbucks recently unveiled 
the design, which while not very different omits the text from the famous emblem. The symbol adorning cups and 
merchandise will now show the famous siren minus the 
words “Starbucks Coffee.” Companies update their logos all the time, but as insignificant as this may seem, this de-cision may signify a move in the wrong direction. When Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz unveiled the new image he did so with the hope to “remain relevant and poised for future growth.” Simply put, Starbucks is considering a move away from what it does best — coffee. By omitting the word “coffee” from its merchandise, the company is 
allowing the possibility of expansion into other markets, 
most likely food. No longer tied down to caffeinated won-ders, it can now convince consumers of its emergence as a food retailer. The company offers appropriate snacks, such as pastries and muffins, and there has been talk of expanding the food selection to sandwiches, salads and other, more substantial food items. Loyal crowd allowing, there is a possibility that this expansion will be a major success, but for people like me who enjoy the coffeehouse 
experience, I fear this may be a suicidal move on the com-
pany’s part. Coffeehouse culture is very fickle, and I don’t foresee patrons reacting well to the crowding of their cozy experience. Visiting a Starbucks and not ordering coffee seems somewhat absurd, but is this a lurking possibility? Is it to become more of a food provider? Is it possible that Starbucks has gotten too excited about its dominance and will jump the shark by converting into a restaurant? I fear so. 
A coffeehouse should be just that — a place where 
people congregate to write, read and reflect while sip-ping steaming mugs of joe. The genius of Starbucks is its success in harnessing the small-coffee-bar feel while ex-ploiting the power and possibilities of a corporate giant. Introducing a more expansive food menu will not only encour -
age customers to flock in large groups, causing noise and crowds (major irritations to any coffee 
house frequenter) but will encour -
age them to stay longer, hog more 
tables and distract from the won-derfully enticing smell of roasting coffee, steamed milk and all the 
trimmings. Good old America; we are just never satisfied. It’s not enough to be the most successful coffee roaster in the world; now we have to draw a market through food as well! Perhaps this is a response to the growing competi-
tion from McDonald’s, where machine-produced, sugary 
coffee concoctions offer customers the benefit of morning convenience. Sure, the coffee isn’t nearly as high quality, but it’s a heck of a lot cheaper and in the same location as a tasty McMuffin. The convenience and efficiency is magnetic to a hurried America and a definite advantage for McDonald’s in the playing field, but efficiency isn’t the factor that makes Starbucks so successful. You don’t go to Outback Steakhouse for a cheap hamburger, nor do 
you visit Starbucks for cheap coffee. You prepare to pay 
for excellence, and for this reason, I feel it risks losing a large consumer base if the company incorporates food and moves toward a restaurant experience.  Its consumer base is loyal because of the quality it consistently receives, and different food items aren’t necessary to excite the fans. Starbucks already has millions of drones flocking to its stores on a daily basis. Muffins and scones go with the coffee ambiance, but sandwiches do not. While the grass 
certainly may seem greener, why mess with a good thing? 
Starbucks, I beg you: Chill out. You have struck gold, so sit back and enjoy it. 
Laura Ellermeyer is a first-year finance major. Her columns 
appear on Tuesdays.
Laura Ellermeyer
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Anti-Planned Parenthood arguments ridiculous
I just wanted to say “bravo!” to Zack Smith for his in-
sightful column published Monday on why Planned Parent-
hood should lose its funding. His sleuthing uncovered the 
fact that even though absolutely zero government dollars spent on the organization go toward abortion services, some of the money they receive is instead being used on insidi-
ous programs like “sexuality education” and “public policy 
objectives.” 
Well, I for one won’t stand for public policy, and I cer -
tainly can’t stand idly by while the government promotes 
any sort of education. As Smith points out, the root of this 
treacherous agenda is given away in the name “Planned Par -
enthood.” 
Despite their constant attempts to trick the public into 
believing that sexuality education and family planning 
is beneficial, we cannot be fooled. And we should not feel 
comfortable giving any government funding to them until their name and goals match the far superior alternative: Un-
planned Parenthood. 
Ariel Drescher  
UF student
n n n
Campaign funding decision benefits Republicans
Zack Smith concludes in his column published Feb. 21 
that U.S. House Republicans voted to end the public fund-
ing of presidential campaigns because of its “unpopularity” and its waste of public funds. 
I believe a better explanation is because last year’s Su-
preme Court, in Citizen’s United v. Federal Elections Com-mission, declared private corporations acting as election contributors  are “legal persons.” As such, wealthy corpora-tions are now able to give even larger sums to their favored candidates. Democrat voters, consisting mostly of middle and working class, are almost certain losers because they have less money to spare.
For example, a donor willing to invest a million-dollar 
contribution is vastly better positioned to shape a legisla-
tor’s voting behavior than an equally talented person with 
just $10 to spare. A large political gift buys TV time and 
many other legal items of influence that generate voting 
shifts among the poorly informed that usually determine the winner. In turn, winners feel obligated to their large donors and legislate accordingly. 
The old slogan of “one man, one vote” is obviously non-
sense in most elections. In the U.S., “democratic” outcomes 
have long been shaped by the prejudices and dough of 
well-off donors. Money also buys needed name recognition. 
Florida’s new governor is a perfect example of success (and 
failure) of this system.
R. R. Renner
Retired UF professor
Throughout President Barack Obama’s 
push for health care reform, the com -
mon portrayal was that health care 
reform was the equivalent of entitlement re-
form. All Congress would need to do is pass the Affordable Care Act to see long-term sol-
vency for all of America’s entitlement needs. 
Former Office Management and Budget 
director Peter Orszag very bluntly propa-gated this falsehood in the Washington Post, in which he is quoted as saying, “Let me be 
very clear: Health care reform is entitlement 
reform.” While medical inflation is problem-
atic, at double the rate of overall inflation, it is not the primary driver in the expected expenditure growth — population aging is.
While Orszag was factually incorrect 
in implying that the Affordable Care Act would curb entitlement spending, the big-ger misrepresentation is the implication that Social Security expenditures are not prob-lems that must be addressed. This is simply incorrect, insofar as every year that goes by without Social Security reform, reforms will hurt more in their implementation.
Both the 2009 and 2010 Social Security 
Trustees Reports mark 2037 as the date for in-solvency. The date is very simple to decipher when looking at the projections for revenue 
and expenditures. It is based on there being 
very high cash flow surpluses from the mid 
1980s until the mid 2000s, averaged with the projected cash flow deficits from 2015 on-ward. Clearly, this is not sustainable.
But the true fiscal problem is even worse. 
In determining the solvency of Social Secu-rity, the trustees count the surpluses as if the government is holding the physical assets in an account, even though this is not the case. 
The surpluses are used to buy bonds from 
the U.S. Treasury, and the bonds pay off oth-
er government spending. The assets in what is commonly called a “trust fund” are simul-taneously liabilities. So long as there isn’t a 
surplus on the general budget, there isn’t a 
true surplus being saved for Social Security. 
Quite the opposite, America is currently fac-ing the largest budget deficits and highest public debt in history.
If America was amassing national debt 
all those years, while also having surpluses from Social Security, imagine the fiscal sce-nario in the upcoming years as Social Secu-rity becomes purely an addition to that defi-cit rather than a mitigator. The bond-rating agency Standard & Poor’s projected that by 2017 rising debt levels 
could cause Treasury 
bonds to lose their tri-
ple-A rating, falling to 
junk status by the late 2020s. Now, factor in that our Social Security deficit only begins as 
our bond rating is expected to be lowered.
Furthermore, Social Security is not an 
individual retirement account that workers 
pay into, and never was intended as one. Rather, it is a program intended as a trans-
fer of wealth from the currently working to 
the currently retired, with the government 
promising the “investors” that future gener -
ations will do the same for them when they retire. 
This should sound awfully suspect. After 
all, if there is a decrease in the growth of the working population or an increase in the re-tired population, people will get a bad deal. In fact, according to Social Security’s trustee, the only difference between Social Security and a Ponzi scheme is “one of intent” with no difference in the financing.
If Social Security benefits remain at the 
same levels, students will inherit a bad deal. They will be forced to pay a greater portion of their wages to Social Security for current beneficiaries. Those wages could otherwise 
have been saved in private investment for 
retirement. In this way, keeping benefits 
at current levels detracts from current stu-dents’ retirement. If reforms took the op-posite course and limited benefits, current 
and upcoming beneficiaries would get a 
worse deal. Either way, reform will have to 
be made because the current path is unsus-tainable.
Office of Management and Budget Direc-
tor Jacob Lew recently tried to dismiss this 
reality in an interview with The Christian 
Science Monitor, saying, “Social Security does not contribute to the deficit in the me-dian term…2015-2020, so there is no need to 
deal with Social Security.”
Factual error aside, this is an admission 
by Obama’s administration that it will not 
touch the benefits of the entrenched interests currently receiving Social Security, or those who will receive Social Security in the near term. Rather, the administration will put fur -
ther jeopardy on the retirement of our gen-eration of students. To this, students ought to be opposed.
Tom Dilling is a columnist for The Daily 
Campus at the University of Connecticut.
As we near Social Security insolvency, we need backup planUWire
Tom Dilling
UWire8, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011
Realities of a lively butcher
Top Left: A view from the kill 
floor’s catwalk at UF’s Meat Pro-cessing Center shows Tommy Es-tevez, left, working at his station with a carcass, while a student, right, goes over the carcasses with a knife to remove hairs that the top right machine missed as it continuously rotates the pig to remove hair and skin. 
Top Right: A blade that cuts off 
cows’ legs drips blood while Es-tevez and a student work to take hide off a carcass in the bleed section.
Left: Estevez blasts the head of a 
dead pig with a torch to remove excess hair missed by the ma-chine or students at the other kill floor stations before him.  
Bottom: Estevez laughs on the phone with a friend during a morning break. The sign in the background notifies custom-ers of low beef inventory for the week. 
Blood, knives and carcasses 
surround Tommy Estevez on a daily basis.
Despite the gruesome sur -
roundings, he casually talks and jokes with his “family” of student workers about relationships, daily 
life and meat. 
It takes a unique individual like 
Estevez to deal with the realities 
of meat production from slaughter to freezer while teaching the artful 
skill of slicing meat. 
Estevez has worked for the past 
10 years as a butcher and co-man-
ager of UF’s Meat Processing Cen-
ter after retiring from 23 years in 
Publix’s meat department. 
The meat processing center 
slaughters cows and pigs to sell in their retail store on Fridays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., where people from all over Gainesville come to buy meat. 
The center conducts meat re-
search and gives professors animal parts that they request to use as teaching tools. 
About 15 pigs are killed every 
week or two, compared with 30,000 a day in mass production, accord-ing to Estevez.
The kill floor has about nine 
stations for pigs from slaughter to freezer.
Even though the work can get 
gruesome, joking on the kill floor 
or in the cutting room is not un-
common because, according to Estevez, you just have to have fun and enjoy life. 
— ALYSON LANDRYPhoto Story by Alyson Landry / Alligator
TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
Special to the Alligator from Jim Burgess, UF Communications
UF sophomore Phillip Choi is tied for first at the John Hayt Invita-
tional in Ponte Vedra Beach following a 1-under-par 71 on Day 2. 
Steven H. Keys / Alligator
Florida sophomore Allie Will took over play on Court 1 after team-
mate Lauren Embree had surgery on an injured wrist.
 THE NO. 2 GATORS ARE 
10-1 IN NONCONFERENCE PLAY DUE LARGELY TO THE DUO’S PERFORMANCE.
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
The UF women’s tennis team 
gets a lot of attention for its 
depth, featuring five players ranked in the top 40 of the ITA singles rankings. 
But the biggest strength of the 
No. 2 Gators is the team’s top-tier players.
Florida has jumped out to a 
10-1 nonconference record this spring on the backs of Allie Will 
and Lauren Embree, the team’s 
star sophomores who have cre-ated a formidable tandem since arriving on campus last year.
“Allie and Lauren are both 
playing at a very high level,” coach Roland Thornqvist said during his team’s appearance at the ITA Indoor Championships 
last week.
“They both have experience 
from last year and we’re relying on them heavily right now.”
Last season, Embree and Will 
played on Courts 1 and 2, respec-
tively, becoming only the third pair of UF freshmen to start a dual match season in the top two spots.
The duo performed consis-
tently throughout the season, rarely showing signs of freshman inexperience. 
Embree posted a 20-3 record 
on Court 1 while Will went 26-1 on Court 2. 
The star freshmen led Flori-
da to a 29-3 overall record last 
spring, with the campaign end-
ing in a heartbreaking loss in the NCAA final to Stanford.
After Embree suffered an off-
season wrist injury requiring sur -
gery, the two switched positions at the start of the 2011 season.
But they both 
had the same goal: 
to lead Florida back 
to familiar heights.
An undefeated 
start paved the way 
for Will to power the Gators to a deep run at the Indoor Champi-onships, where she dominated her opponents on Court 1. 
However, the trip ended in an 
all-too-familiar way for Florida, as the Gators fell short in the final to Stanford in a 4-2 decision.
This season, Will has put to-
gether a 9-0 record, with each of her victories coming on Court 1.
Embree has also thrived in her 
new role, recording a 7-0 record on Court 2.   
After an entire week of rest, 
which Thornqvist said was used to recuperate, UF is almost ready to open conference play. 
But first, Florida (10-1) will 
have to travel to Tallahassee to-day to take on No. 20 Florida State (4-2) in the Gators’ seventh consecutive contest away from their home court.
Will and Embree won’t be tak-
ing the Seminoles lightly, as FSU is coming off an impressive 5-2 win over No. 15 Georgia Tech on 
Saturday.
“We have to learn how to com-
pete in a hostile environment,” 
Thornqvist said. 
“Florida State will certainly be 
tough. The crowd is usually on top of us there and we’ve got to expect that.”
The Gators have had immense 
success against Florida State in the past, holding a 50-1 all-time record against the Seminoles.
Thornqvist said the key to 
beating FSU and recovering from 
“the indoor hangover” is to keep 
cool in Tallahassee.
“We try to downplay the emo-
tional side of playing Florida 
State and play the tennis match 
as a tennis match,” he said. “Just keep it to forehands and back-hands.”Sophomores Will, Embree hold 
down spots on top two courtsUF GOLF
By ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
 
In any sport, the road to a championship includes 
plenty of adversity. 
The Florida men’s and women’s golf teams expe-
rienced their fair share Monday. How they respond 
will go a long way toward showing if they have the mettle to bring home SEC and NCAA Tournament titles. 
The Gators fell off the 1-over-par pace set by Au-
burn with a cumulative 14-over-par score, dropping them to seventh place at the John Hayt Invitational in Ponte Vedra Beach.
The most surprising part of Florida’s collapse 
was the poor play by the No. 2 player in the nation, Bank Vongvanij. 
A 6-over-par 78, his highest score of 2011 by four 
strokes, leaves Vongvanij in a tie for 20th. 
Sophomore Tyler McCumber also had a miser -
able round, finishing with an 8-over-par 80.
The pair of bright spots in an otherwise bleak 
day for the Gators were sophomore Phillip Choi and 
freshman Payne Denman.
Choi was able to continue his excellent form from 
a 4-under-par first round to turn in a 1-under-par 71 
in the second round. 
The sophomore is tied for first as an individual 
with Auburn’s Blayne Barber and Arkansas’ Sebas-tian Cappelen. 
“He keeps getting better and better,” coach Bud-
dy Alexander said of Choi. “I’d love to see him get 
a win here.”
The result of Denman’s first round was an un-
impressive 10-over-par 82, but he improved signifi-cantly on Monday. 
His 3-over 75 was second best on the squad and 
counted toward the team total for the first time in 
his young career.
The Florida women also had a forgettable second 
round at the Allstate Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, shooting a 13-over-par 301 to find themselves in 12th place, 17 strokes behind top-ranked Alabama. 
Coach Jan Dowling called Monday “an okay day 
for the Gators,” referencing the four scores that were between 74 and 77. 
Sophomores Mia Piccio and Isabelle Lendl both 
shot 3-over-par 75’s, senior Jessica Yadloczky fin-ished with a 5-over-par 77, and junior Evan Jensen led the team with a 2-over-par 74. 
Dowling cited the short game as the root of the 
Gators’ early season troubles. At this point, she said, it is still her team’s greatest weakness. 
Regardless of how Florida finishes today, she be-
lieves its experience this week against a strong field 
will help in the postseason. 
“When I made our schedule, I looked for hard 
courses and great fields,” Dowling said. “Our goals 
are still ahead of us in the postseason, and our expe-riences now will help us achieve those goals.”Choi tied for lead, Gators in seventh after Day 2
Tennis“When I made our schedule, I looked for 
hard courses and great fields. Our goals 
are still ahead of us in the postseason, 
and our experiences now will help us 
achieve those goals.”
Jan Dowling
UF women’s golf coachClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 11
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-23/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1600
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.No move in fees and $500 off March!Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         4-20-66-2AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-1-11-29-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    3-3-11-30-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-
11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 
15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-
yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-1-11-19-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF***48 Hour Special***352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com3-1-11-14-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
Beautiful. 1bd. 1ba. loft 5 min on freeway 
from SFC Renovated with tile & carpet.Pool,
Clubhouse, Exercise Room, Quiet location.
$425mo $425sec. $45appl. fee.
472-6491.
3-1-11-10-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-4-11-12-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Downtown garage/studio apt, off-street
parking, privacy. Behind Hippodrome, on bus lines. $420/mo, 1st, last and sec.Call 352 373-6551, leave message.3-4-9-2
UF 7 blks, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL, HOT 
TUB, 2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park, respon -
sible students or professionals only.  Plasma TV incl. May-Aug $1775/mo; $2375/mo Aug on. Summer only option or yr lease. 352-222-0211   3-1-11-5-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   5-10-11-34-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
3-18-11-10-2
3BR/2BA, 1940sq.ft. Quiet neighborhood. 
1.5 miles from U.F. Large fenced yard, wood floors, 2 car garage, and sun room. Available 5/1. $1100/month. 3936 SW 3rd Ave. 352-359-1270    3-25-11-15-2
Bellaproperties.net/Quiet Graduate 
CommunityLuxury Spacious 2/2 and 2/1 with Loft/Must See/Starting at $283/Bedroom/Available August 2011/Call Today (352) 335-5424   3-3-11-4-2
12, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts
3 BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft.
Large Rooms, Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.
Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo $600 Deposit
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
216 SW 12th Street.
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C
Carpet, Across from UF Stadium
1830 NW 1st Avenue $295/Mo, $300 
Deposit
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit
3-1-11-1-2
Arlington Square. Right downtown! Bus: 1&5. 
5 min bike to campus/15min walk. 2BR/2BA 
townhouse: high ceilings, in courtyard w/ 
pool. May-July. Unfurn/util not included. 
$470/person. 352 318 1014. jsmyth@ufl.edu   
3-1-10-3
One bedroom available in a 4/4. $480 + 
utilities. pet friendly. great roomates! The Woodlands Call 863-303-3359   3-4-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 orjfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-634-1893. Available immediately.    3-1-10-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899
___________________________________.
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!
All models between $200 - $400 off! All come with one year parts and labor warranties! Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
3-31-10-38-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-1205 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
2002 BMW Z3 3.0 roadster
green metallic/beige leather; 91,500 miles, 
good condition; $12,000; Loretta 352-665-5285   3-2-5-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...
Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!Call Gary at 352-682-8838,
email dlimotors@yahoo.com or
stop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-
12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
3-18-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   3-16-20-14STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
NETWORK ASST
SALES CONSULTANTS
CEO ASSISTANT
Full time positions.
Send resume to hr@gleim.com
www.gleim.com         3-14-11-10-14
Office Asst Paid Internship in Alachua. 
$12.00 hourly 10-15 hours weekly. Flexible 
schedule. Knowledge of Quickbooks a plus. 
Email resume to BiopressInfo@gmail.com.   
3-1-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive po-
sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to 
alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-4-11-11-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems seeks 
sales consultants for Gainesville & Ocala.  
Must have reliable transportation. BG Check 
and Drug Test Required. Fax resume to 352-
376-9236 or e-mail info@cpss.net.   3-3-11-
10-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
Experienced swim lesson instructor needed 
for local program. Part time hrs either in mornings or late afternoons. Please email resume with lesson experience and 3 refer-ences to jwilby@cox.net   3-16-11-10-14
HOMEWORK COACH NEEDED
for a 10th grader & a 5th grader who both need help in math & science. Approx 5-6 hrs/wk.-flexible, $10/hr. Please email credentials to: glennhmcinnes@bellsouth.net   3-2-11-5-14
Great deal!
Brand new home, perfect for college student, 
quiet community. 3 bed, two bath. Wont last. 699/mo Call 904-992-0141    3-18-11-10-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Project Manager/Account Director wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual 
with good attention to detail to work in an-tibody purification and test development. Knowledge of ELISA methodology and basic immunology is desirable. Basic laboratory skills and ability to manage multiple projects required. B.S. in scientific field preferred; laboratory experience may be substituted. Email resume to info@elisa-tek.com   3-2-11-4-14
Busy couple in need of dog sitting for a 
friendly dalmatian as well as light household chores. Approx. 15 hrs a wk. Please email letter / brief resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com with references.    3-3-5-14All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
CHOW NOW FOOD TRUCK
Tuesdays 11am till 1:30pm
Behind Emerson Hall    3-1-11-2-20
need performance credit? 5$ student tickets 
for 'Nightingale and the Rose' at the HIPP, 
March 7, 7.30 pm, 352.375.4477   3-4-11-5-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21Focus Group Members in Gainesville area 
wanted to discuss issues on real legal cases 
in North Florida. Paid for your time. For in-
formation please call Dana at 800-654-4659.    
3-1-11-2-14
SUMMER JOBS:
Recreation Camp Counselors/Supervisors 
for summer recreation program 6/13/11-
8/05/11 for children ages 5-14.  WSI/Lifeguard and Maintenance Aides (5/11-9/11).  Exp desirable.  City of Plantation 
(west of Ft Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave, 
Plantation, FL  33317 or www.plantation.org 
to download application.   3-4-11-5-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN 
or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or 
send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Nanny for 2-year-old girl needed. Must be 
available full time starting in May and part 
time starting in Sept (Mon-Thurs, 12-6). 
Childcare experience and references re-
quired. Email resume to
nannyingville@gmail.com.    3-4-11-4-14
Lifeguard-Certification Required
$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.
State Mental Hlth Treatment Fac
Call Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-
18-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT 15-40 hrs/wk - M-F, 
9am-6pm. $7.25/hr. Excellent Word, typing, internet & Excel skills. Indicate available hours, major, graduating semester.OMA.office@yahoo.com   3-14-11-5-14
2 LOT TECHS for busy motorsports dealer -
ship. Requires cleaning, loading, unloading 
& operating machines, building maintenance 
& light mechanical. Valid driver license req. 
Apply  in person at Polaris of Gainesville 
12556 NW US Hwy 441    3-4-4-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-0069 to schedule an appointment todayprogreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordableGrammar, conversation, vocabularyContact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     3-16-1-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-96963-31-20-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Sports
TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
ONLINE alligatorSports Podcast INSIDEMatt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida seniors Vernon Macklin, Chandler Parsons and Alex Tyus will be honored as part of the Gators’ Senior Day festivities before playing 
their final game in the O’Connell Center. UF will square off against Alabama at 7 p.m. for a shot at clinching the SEC regular-season title.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
Although the past four years have 
been a rollercoaster ride for Florida’s 
senior class, it has the opportunity to secure the ideal conclusion. 
The No. 14 Gators (22-6, 11-3 
Southeastern Conference) will enter their showdown against Alabama (19-9, 11-3 SEC) with a chance to clinch a regular-season SEC title after honoring their four departing players.
Because Florida and Alabama 
are locked at 11-3, tonight’s 7 p.m. 
matchup in the O’Connell Cen-
ter becomes a de facto conference championship due to the head-to-head tiebreaker.
“I don’t think there’s a better 
way to go out,” senior center V ernon Macklin said. 
The combination of Senior Day 
festivities and championship pos-
sibilities led Macklin and forward 
Chandler Parsons to invite family and friends to the game. 
While Macklin’s guests are limit-
ed to a few family members, Parsons said he plans to be joined by many people in his extended family and a number of old friends. 
Parsons is no stranger to the fan Florida hopes to send out seniors with win over ‘Bama
Two years ago, this Senior Night would have marked the end of a dark time for Florida basket-
ball.
Nearly a decade of consecutive 
NCAA Tournament appearances and two national titles had come undone at the hands of a group of overly entitled role players who came to Gainesville thinking they were destined for cham-pionships.
No one thought the Class of 2011 
could right the ship, transforming from a disappointing crop of NIT-
bound role players into the heart and 
soul of a bona-fide NCAA Tourna-ment team.
Not the Predator-lookalike rim-
rocker. Not the Georgetown transfer whom Billy Donovan once publicly called out for not being physical enough in practice. Not Nick Cal-athes’ sidekick.But now, 
two years re-moved from c o n s e c u t i v e NIT appear -
ances, Florida is on the verge of a second straight NCAA To u r n a m e n t berth and what appears to be a 
promising future. 
And the Gators can thank Alex 
Tyus, Vernon Macklin and Chandler Parsons for being such a major part of their success — however unlikely that idea would have seemed in 2009.
 “It’s taken two years to really kind 
of figure things out,” Donovan said. “I saw a team with a disposition that did Class of ‘11 comes full circleUF BASEBALL
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
Florida State left a bad taste in Florida’s 
mouth last season.
The Gators won only one of five meet-
ings against the Seminoles in 2010, losing  
8-5 in Omaha, Neb., as FSU eliminated UF from the College World Series.
“It’s pretty bitter after losing four out 
of five to them,” sophomore catcher Mike Zunino said.
But, after getting off to its best start since 
2002, No. 1 Florida (7-0) hopes to reverse its 
recent fortunes against No. 5 FSU (7-0).
The Gators rolled through their first 
seven games of the season with ease, but 
they will face their toughest challenge to date when they clash with the Seminoles 
tonight at 7 at George Steinbrenner Field in Tampa.
Instead of dwelling on last season’s re-
sults, coach Kevin O’Sullivan said his team will use them as motivation heading into 
the first of four meetings between the two squads.
“There’s a lot more in-
centive,” O’Sullivan said. “First of all, it’s a rival. … But they got the best of us last year. 
“I’ve got a great deal 
of respect for [FSU], but we’re going to be ready to 
play.”
With his club riding the 
momentum of its pitchers, who have com-bined for a 1.43 ERA and 65 strikeouts in 63 innings, O’Sullivan plans on using an array Gators eager to avenge last 
season’s losses to Seminoles
Zunino
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberrySEE hOOpS, p AGE 16
SEE ADAM, p AGE 16
SEE BASEBALL, p AGE 15
n Go to alligatorSports.org for the seventh 
installment of our weekly video show, cover-
ing Florida basketball and baseball, and a story on the UF swimming team’s perfor -
mances at their last chance meets.n Check out Page 9 for a story on the Florida golf 
teams, as UF’s men struggled to a seventh-place standing and the women are in 12th. Page 9 also features a story on the UF women’s tennis team, de-tailing Allie Will’s rise to the No. 1 spot on the squad.n Want to spice up your morning bus route or the long ride 
home from campus? Then download the latest alligatorSports Podcast. Greg Luca, Jesse Simonton and GatorBait.net’s Kyle Maistri join host Adam Berry in a whimsical, free-flowing con -
versation about UF basketball, great Gators and more.TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
O’Sullivan planning to back up starter Toledo with loaded bullpen
of arms tonight against FSU.
Florida will trot junior right-
handed pitcher Tommy Toledo to 
the mound for his first start since 
the Gators were sent packing by Alabama in last season’s South-eastern Conference Tournament.
Toledo (0-0, 0.00 ERA) has 
made three appearances for UF out of the bullpen this year, pitching four scoreless innings and earning one save.
O’Sullivan said he wanted to 
give the Tampa native a chance to pitch in his hometown. 
O’Sullivan also plans to use 
lefty Steven “Paco” Rodriguez, 
righty Anthony DeSclafani and 
left-hander Alex Panteliodis, who has only seen limited action since returning from offseason hip sur -
gery, out of the bullpen. O’Sullivan also plans to have 
lefty Nick Maronde available 
tonight after limiting him to 12 pitches of relief work in Sunday’s 
win against Boston College.
“We got a bunch of guys,” O’Sullivan said. “We’re going to use our best guys and give it our 
best shot.”Florida State coach Mike Mar -
tin seems to be preparing for the 
rivalry in a similar way, as the Seminoles will start right-hander Scott Sitz (1-0, 0.00), who is usu-
ally one of the team’s weekend 
starters.
“I am (fired up),” O’Sullivan 
said. “If you can’t get excited for 
Florida-Florida State … you’re 
probably in the wrong program.” 
Johnson honored: Sophomore 
left-handed pitcher Brian Johnson 
was named the Louisville Slugger National Player of the Week on Monday. 
Johnson (2-0, 0.00 ERA) tossed 
six scoreless innings in Thurs-
day’s 4-0 win against Boston Col-
lege. 
He retired the first 17 batters 
he faced and, at one point, retired 
27 straight dating back to Flori-da’s season opener against USF.
In 12 innings of work, the lefty 
has recorded 11 strikeouts, al-lowed three hits and walked one. 
Johnson also went 5 for 12 at 
the plate during the weekend sweep of the Eagles, driving in four runs and scoring three of his own.BASEBALL , from page 14
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Kevin o’sullivan will send Tommy Toledo to the mound against Florida state, but he also 
plans to use s teven “Paco” r odriguez, Anthony desclafani and Alex Panteliodis out of the bullpen.  
“If you can’t get excited 
for Florida-Florida State 
... you’re probably in the 
wrong program.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coachUF BASKETBALL
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
In a class characterized by heartbreak, 
Adam Allen stands out from the rest. 
While the seniors have dealt with their 
share of difficult losses on the court, the 
redshirt-junior forward has endured a trio of surgeries in an attempt to fix his left 
knee, which has sidelined him since the 
2007-08 season. 
Unfortunately for Allen, each attempt 
has yielded little more than a fleeting hope.  
With graduation just two months away, 
Allen is opting to participate in tonight’s Senior Day festivities, essentially giving up on ever making a return to action. 
Although his contributions on the court 
never neared what he hoped they could, Allen never felt as if he wasn’t appreciated by his teammates.  
“I’m still a huge part of this team,” Allen 
said. “It is kind of bittersweet that I can’t play, but still, I’m happy that we’re doing so well and just glad to be a part of this.”
Because of an issue with the cartilage 
surrounding his kneecap, Allen can’t work out for more than a short period without being sore for the next three or four days. 
The condition is so severe that the for -
ward projects severe arthritis by age 35, un-
less a potential fourth surgery can alleviate 
the problem. 
Allen admits his misfortune has been 
difficult to handle, but he had no choice but 
to “take it in stride.”
“I wasn’t able to get back and get 
healthy, and I can’t do anything about it,” 
Allen said. “I got my feet wet, and I got a free education out of it, and I got a chance 
to be a part of the Florida Gators basketball team. That still says a lot.”
Allen has already started to focus on life 
after sports, doing radio broadcasts for ju-nior college games and applying for a sum-
mer internship with ESPN. 
But before he begins the next phase of 
his life, he will still have one last night in 
the O’Connell Center. 
“It means a lot to me,” Allen said. “My 
whole family is coming to town, and I don’t 
know if I’m going to tear up or not during the game, but it’s going to be a good experi-
ence.”
ALABAMA deFense  Presen Ts ChALLenGes: 
Under the leadership of Anthony Grant, 
who served as an assistant on Billy Dono-
van’s staff  from 1994-2006, the Crimson 
Tide has established itself as one of the na-tion’s best defenses.
Alabama currently 
leads the Southeastern 
Conference in scoring 
defense (58.2 points per game), opposing shooting percentage (37.3 percent) and steals (9.6 per game).
“They’re very tough,” 
senior forward Chandler 
Parsons said. “They’re a physical team. They remind me of a Big East team.”
Alabama is led by junior forward JaMy-
chal Green, who paces the team with 16.1 points, 7.4 rebounds and 2.2 blocks per con-test.
Green and senior center Vernon Mack-
lin played together at the 2010 Amare Stou-
demire Skills Academy, and the two still 
occasionally speak to each other.
“He’s a great player,” Macklin said. “He 
can shoot, he can drive to the hole and he’s 
physical, so they have a great front line up 
there.”Allen ready to celebrate senior day after trying career
Alexander Silva / Alligator StaffF Adam Allen , 6-foot-8
Season stats: DNP
Notable achievements: Remained on scholarship with the team through this season despite not having played since his freshman year due to repeated knee injuries. … In 2007-08, he averaged 10.4 minutes, four points, 0.8 rebounds and 0.4 assists per game while 
shooting 48.1 percent from the field, 42.1 percent from three-point range and 61.5 percent from the free-throw line.
C Vernon Macklin, 6-foot-10
Season stats: 11.2 points, 6.0 rebounds, 0.7 assists, 24.1 minutes 
per game, 56.9 FG%, 45.3 FT%Notable achievements: Second in the SEC in field-goal shooting percentage this season at 56.9 percent, trailing only Ole Miss’ Regi -
nald Buckner. … Drew high praise at the 2010 LeBron James Skills 
Academy and participated in the 2010 Amare Stoudemire Skills 
Academy. 
F Chandler Parsons, 6-foot-10
Season stats: 11.1 points, 7.7 rebounds, 3.7 assists, 33.5 minutes 
per game, 49.1 FG%, 53.2 FT%, 38.8 3PT%
Notable achievements: Only one of three active Division-I college basketball players with over 1,300 points, 750 rebounds, 300 assists and 100 steals in his career. … His 1,345 points the last four years put him in the top 20 in UF history. … Has played every position but center for the Gators.
F Alex Tyus, 6-foot-8
Season stats: 8.7 points, 5.3 rebounds, 0.8 assists, 24.2 minutes per game, 47.5 FG%, 65.2 FT%Notable achievements: Picked by the coaches in the preseason to finish on the All-SEC Second Team.  … One of five players in the Billy Donovan era to make more than 500 career field goals, joining Udonis Haslem, Matt Bonner, David Lee and Anthony Roberson. … Has not fouled out in 133 career games.
FLORIDA BASKETBALL
CLASS OF 2011
Grant
support, as he said his parents, Gary 
and Terri, have been to every contest this season except the game at Ten-nessee, when their ﬂ  ight was can-celed because of inclement weather. 
  “They’re the best parents in the world,” Parsons said. “They’ve been 
to literally most of my games for all 
four years, not just this year, and to-morrow night is going to be special. I’m sure my mom will be in tears.”
  The night will also be ﬁ  lled with 
emotion for Macklin, though he said his family will probably wait until graduation to shed their tears.   Macklin, Parsons and forward 
Alex Tyus are all on pace to earn de-grees following the spring semester. 
  Still, the three seniors are hold-
ing out hope that basketball will remain a part of their lives, as each 
expressed the desire to continue his 
career in the NBA. 
  “That’s been my dream since I 
was a child,” Parsons said. 
  Tyus said he would be open to 
playing professionally in Europe if he fails to make it in the NBA, but he is still focused on the task at hand.
  For Tyus and the rest of the se-
niors, that means keeping their focus on Alabama amid all the hype sur-rounding tonight’s game — some-thing Donovan found challenging on previous Senior Days. 
  “It felt like when the games start-
ed, those guys had been through an entire season in about 15 minutes,” Donovan said. “It’s an emotional 
thing. I think when a guy steps into 
the arena and knows it is their last game, that’s signiﬁ  cant.” 
  Each of the seniors noted that the 
ﬁ  nality of the game was rather sud-den, as the past four years had seem-ingly ﬂ  own by . 
    “It happens so fast,” Macklin 
said. “This is my ﬁ  fth year in col-
lege, and it goes like a blur. Last year 
seems like it was just here.”
    After two seasons of struggle and 
heartache, the class is starting to re-kindle a program that was fresh off a national championship at the time of its arrival. 
  “As painful as it was for two 
years with those guys, the process of 
now four years of where they’re at 
today has been very rewarding for me,” Donovan said. 
  A victory tonight would be an-
other signiﬁ  cant step in that jour-ney. 
  “I couldn’t ask for a better ending 
than to get the win,” Parsons said. “It would be really special to me if I 
could end it with a bang, and end it 
with us cutting down the nets.” 16, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011
HOT SHOTS
1. Kenny Boynton, So.
2. Chandler Parsons, Sr.
3. Erving Walker, Jr.Boynton led UF in scoring in its win over Georgia (18 
points) and loss to Kentucky (21 points). The sopho -
more guard shot 50 percent from three-point range in the two games, including a 5-of-9 performance in a matchup against former AAU teammate Brandon Knight and the Wildcats. Boynton also recorded eight assists and just two turnovers.
Parsons returned from a deep thigh bruise and 
scored 16 points against Georgia on Thursday, 
sparking a come-from-behind win. The senior for -
ward was back to his usual form Saturday, recording 15 points, eight rebounds and seven assists against 
Kentucky For the week, Parsons had a 10-to-1 assist-
to-turnover ratio and hit 56.5 percent of his shots.
Despite shooting just 2 of 11 from the field and 1 of 6 
from three in the loss to Kentucky, Walker still found his way into our rankings. Although he stands just 5-foot-8, the junior guard snagged nine rebounds in two games, good for third on the team. Walker shot just 29.2 percent for the week but still racked up 25 points after an 8-for-10 performance from the free-
throw line.
12 points
12 points11 points6 points
1 pointT-1. Chandler Parsons
T-1. Erving Walker3. Kenny Boynton4. Vernon Macklin 5. Alex Tyus 
STANDINGS
Seniors share hopes for NBA careers
HOOPS , from page 14
Greg Luca and Jocelyne Sanchez / Alligator Staffnot learn from their experiences and thought, ‘OK, I’m a year 
older; we’re going to be a year better. I’ve got this.’ 
  “It was terrible, because you could see that they were going 
right back into what I would consider a failure mentality.”
  Donovan fought that mentality throughout the 2009-10 
season, occasionally even continuing the struggle this year. 
They didn’t know what it took to win, but the bigger prob-
lem was that they were 100 percent sure they did.
  He experimented last season with the way they practiced 
and has altered the way they prepared this year, putting the team in a hotel the night before important home games to keep them focused and shut out potential distractions.
  “I’ve tried to do some different things to get them to under-
stand. So much of what we’re dealing with is human nature,” 
Donovan said. “It’s so easy to fall back into that complacent 
mode, because no one wants to constantly be stressed or on edge all the time. In sports or anything, you’re always battling the human element.”
  It certainly hasn’t been easy. The disappointment of a sec-
ond straight NIT appearance still stings. The ups and downs, late-season collapses and erratic appearances in the rankings hang fresh in their minds.
  Macklin pointed to the difﬁ  culty of the team’s 6 a.m. off-
season conditioning sessions. Parsons and Tyus recalled not so fondly the memories of Donovan kicking them out of their practice facility and stripping them of their Gators gear.
  “It was deﬁ  nitely different,” Parsons said. “Those experi-
ences have helped our upperclassmen get to where we are today.”
  At some point between losing to Penn State in the 2009 
NIT and the time Macklin, Tyus, Parsons and Adam Allen are recognized tonight in the O’Connell Center, it clicked. An 
immature collection of underachievers turned into a cohe-
sive unit that heeded Donovan’s advice about what it takes to win.
  “It’s been very rewarding for me, as a coach, to see these 
guys where they were and see how much they’ve grown and how much better they’ve gotten,” Donovan said.
  Macklin, with his signature hook shot, has become one of 
the conference’s most potent low-post offensive threats. Tyus has grown as a player and a person, even if he stopped grow-
ing his trademark dreads. And Parsons has become the face 
of the program, a legitimate NBA prospect and the leader no one expected him to be.
  And if they have their way, their legacies aren’t nearly set 
in stone yet.
  “This year, we have an opportunity to end it the right 
way,” Parsons said, “and get some championships.” ADAM , from page 14