We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 26 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n  Florida guard Er -
ving Walker (right) 
led the Gators with 
25 points as UF led 
wire-to-wire and 
built on its strong 
week with a domi -
nant 79-60 win at 
South Carolina on 
Wednesday.
See Story, Page 17.By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
It started with an episode of “Howdy 
Doody.”
Raymond Joseph Teller was watching 
the show on his brand-new TV when Clar -abell the Clown, Howdy’s mute partner, 
advertised a Howdy Doody magic set.
He sent away 15 cents and two Mars bar 
wrappers for the promise of real magic.
A few weeks later it arrived in a flat 
envelope. Inside was a piece of perforated 
cardboard for him to punch out the pieces and build the set himself.
That was when he stopped believing.
Penn Jillette was 12 years old when he saw an advertisement for an ESP set. He ordered it and got back a box with a pen-
dulum and a few other odds and ends that he used for tricks on his buddies. They all thought it was real. Even him.
Later that week in the school library, 
Penn was glancing through a book about magic when he saw his trick dissected and 
Police say drunken driving suspect in Ohio pulled herself over
SANDUSKY, Ohio — Police in Ohio 
can’t take too much credit for stopping a 
woman they say was drinking and driving — they say she pulled herself over.
Officers in the Lake Erie town of San-
dusky say the woman stopped because she thought she saw police lights, but it turns out the flashing lights were from a skating rink sign.
The Sandusky Register reports that the 
woman’s car got stuck in a snowbank near the sign when she stopped early Monday and another motorist called police.
Officers say they took 27-year-old Ni-
cole Scott to jail on charges of operating a vehicle under the influence. 
Police say Scott denied she had been 
driving. 
There is no telephone listing for Scott 
and it isn’t clear whether she has an attor -
ney.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rain
57/45FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 16
SPORTS 17
Jesse Lash / Alligator
Credit SCORE!
Students race to pop 720 purple balloons on Wednesday afternoon. SCORE!, a financial coaching 
campaign sponsored by the UF Bateman Team, challenged participants to try and pop all 720 bal -
loons, which represented a credit score of 720, in seven minutes and 20 seconds.
n SHE LEAVES MARCH 6.
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
While many students spend 
Spring Break in warm, tropical plac-
es, Ashton Charles will be spending hers talking about diplomacy in the 
cold climate of Russia.
On March 6, Charles will set off 
to Russia with 14 other student body 
presidents as part of a program to extend diplomacy through young leaders across the U.S.
“Words cannot express how ex-
cited I am,” she said.The trip is financed by the Rus-
sian government, and the Open 
World Leadership Center of Congress connects the young leaders with Russia. 
Chang Suh, senior adviser to 
the Open World Leadership Cen-ter of Congress, said the purpose of the agency is to support citizen 
diplomacy , especially with young 
people. 
Charles said she was very thank-
ful for the nomination and plans to learn as much as possible before the trip. 
Charles and Student Body Presi-
dent Gallop Franklin from Florida A&M University are the only two 
representatives from Florida.
Charles said she hopes to repre-
sent the U.S. and UF as best as pos-
sible by talking about ideas to move toward goals for future generations.
“The best diplomacy you can 
have is to interact with others,” she said. Charles to visit Russia on Spring Break diplomacy tripLOCAL
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
In January 2008, an 18-year-
old inmate hanged himself from a jail window. He couldn’t know the trouble it would cause the Alachua County Commission 
and the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office.
Sheriff Sadie Darnell has been 
pushing to get about 300 new, suicide-proof windows ever since that incident.
“We’ve had more start dates 
and delays than we have toes and fingers in this room,” she 
said at Tuesday’s County Com-
mission meeting.
Commissioners said they’re 
working to get new windows, but the project has become larger and pricier than they expected. 
“We all want the jail fixed,” 
said County Manager Randall Reid at the meeting.
Initially, the plan was to re-
place the windows in the jail’s common area, said Charlie Jack-son, county facilities manager. Now the plan is to replace 
almost every window in the jail, said Eugene Morris, spokesman for the jail.
Reid estimates new windows 
would cost more than $600,000. Jackson said the cost is about $250,000 over budget.
Darnell said she won’t allow 
another suicide. Since 2008, 16 inmates tried to hang themselves from jail windows.
“That’s just not going to hap-
pen on my watch,” Darnell said in an interview.
The mother of the man who 
committed suicide filed a lawsuit against the jail. Darnell said if the jail doesn’t fix the windows and another suicide happens, the jail could face more lawsuits.
Jackson said the project should 
start within two months.New jail windows 
could cut suicides
“We all want the jail 
fixed.”
Randall Reid
County ManagerThey also discussed their careers
SEE MAGIC, p AGE 4Penn and Teller reveal secrets of magic
UFProjects“I swore that I hated magic 
and I hated scientists more               
than anything.”
penn Jillette
MagicianNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 26 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
 Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Museum Nights: Under African 
Skies Today, 6 p.m.Harn Museum
The Harn Museum will cel-
ebrate African art and culture. Visitors will engage with art from the Harn’s African collec-tion, including the latest Harn-organized exhibition, “Africa Interweave: Textile Diasporas.” Activities will include Adinkra stamping and mask making, 
storytelling by Baba Ona, a 
drum performance by Agbedidi Pazeni Sauti, an Africa choir performance, a fashion display by the African Student Union and food. Admission is free. 
Harness Your Passion
Today, 6:30 p.m. 
Harn Museum
Participants will have the op-portunity to view student art as well as the new African tex-tile exhibit. In addition, other activities related to the 2010 Common Reading Program se-lection will take place, and light refreshments will be served. 
For more information, please 
call New Student and Family Programs at 352-392-1261, or email newstudentinfo@dso.ufl.edu. 
SG Absentee Ballots
By FridayAbsentee ballots for the SG elec-
tion can be requested at sg.ufl.
edu/elections. Look under “For the Voter.” The election will be held Feb. 22 and 23.
Women’s Leadership Conference 
“Blueprint for Success” RegistrationBy Friday
The conference on Feb. 27 offers 
participants the opportunity to improve their leadership skills. With  workshops and a graduate include economic develop-
ment, public health, art, educa-
tion and environmental protec-tion. Interested American and Indonesian sophomores and juniors are encouraged to ap-ply. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an e-mail with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
CLARIFICATION:
In an article Wednesday 
about the Student Senate vote 
on allowing guns to be carried 
on campus, it was written that 
Sen. Carly Wilson represents the 
Unite Party and is in favor of 
passing the open-carry legisla-
tion. The Alligator would like to clarify that while Wilson is a rep-resentative of the Unite Party, her views are not the official views of the party.school panel, participants will 
discover the building blocks  
they need to become suc-
cessful leaders in society .  UF alumna Diana Diaz, co-anchor for Miami News Channel 7, will be the keynote speaker. 
14th Annual Medical College 
Forum
Saturday
Reitz UnionStudents can learn about the medical school admission process and meet admissions deans and directors from ev-ery school in the state and across the country . Register online at ufpremed.org/mcf 
or at the event. 
University Gospel Choir Benefit 
Concert
Sunday, 6 p.m.Upper Room Ministries, 3575 NE 15th St.  
This concert helps the University Gospel Choir  al-
leviate some costs for its an-
nual spring break tour. For more information, contact the University Gospel Choir at universitygospelchoir.com or e-mail universitygospel-choir@gmail.com. 
Indonesia Scholarship 
Information SessionMonday, 4:30 p.m.Hub, Room 170The Freeman Foundation is offering a fully funded, nine-week summer internship study abroad opportunity in Indonesia. Internship fields 
RAIN
57/45CLOUDY
61/37SUNNY
61/34SUNNY
64/39SUNNY
68/45SUNDAY MONDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
ROMANCE 
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
Feel the love, Gators.
Gainesville placed ninth on Ama-
zon.com’s 2011 list of the top 20 most 
romantic U.S. cities.
The city bested 10th-place Tallahas-
see but came in behind the other Flori-
da cities on the list: third-place Orlando 
and fourth-place Miami.
This isn’t the first time Gainesville 
has placed in the top 20; it earned sixth 
place on the list in 2010.  
Amazon.com determined the top cit-
ies based on online sales of relationship and romance books, sexual wellness 
products, romantic comedies and Barry White albums. 
The company based its sales data 
on items bought since Jan. 1 on a per 
capita basis. Only cities with more than 
100,000 residents were considered.
Romance is the second most popular 
genre of fiction at the Alachua County 
Library District, just behind mystery novels.
Gail Moss, librarian supervisor and fiction selector for the district, said this popularity might be due to the various 
subgenres for romance novels. Urban fantasy and paranormal romances are 
among the most popular choices. 
“When I worked at the circulation 
desk years ago, we’d have women 
come in and return literally bags full of 
mass-market romances and check out the same number,” Moss said. “A lot of people are longtime lovers of romance 
reading.”
While mysteries dominate the print 
arena, romances take the top spot for 
downloadable e-books and audio-books.
Since the beginning of the fiscal year 
on Oct. 1, 2010, people have download-
ed 10,000 romance e-books and audio 
books but only 3,200 mysteries, she 
said.Gainesville full of love
By SAMANTHA DEAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Safety requirements that have been man-
dated upon Student Government Produc-
tions for Flavet Field are currently under -
way.
The mandate, issued by the Vice Presi-
dent of Student Affairs, states that concerts cannot be held on Flavet until all necessary safety measures are in place.
Lt. Bill Gainey of the UPD Special Servic-
es Division said the Slightly Stoopid concert  last March was the catalyst for these new regulations. 
The new safety measures include build-
ing a fenced-off corridor that will separate the field into two halves and provide an ac-cess aisle for police officers.
According to Kyle Calhoun, chairman of 
SGP , Flavet construction should be complet-ed by mid-February.A hydraulic lift with a spotlight has been 
requested for nighttime concerts and low-level lighting will be installed throughout the field. The field will be completely fenced in so UPD can better control the area. 
UPD suggests all bands who encourage 
moshing, crowd surfing or drug use not be invited to perform at UF. 
The cost for these new regulations will be 
paid for by SGP . Calhoun said security costs 
for an event at Flavet were pre-viously about $2,000. After the recent changes, security costs are about $4,500. These regula-
tions probably won’t be enforced a year or two down the road, he said, so the higher costs are for the immediate future only . 
According to Calhoun, university offi-
cials said they would prefer slowly easing 
into large events on the field. 
Until then, the Bandshell remains un-
used.Flavet bandshell safety 
changes almost done
OnCampu s“A lot of people are longtime 
lovers of romance reading.”
Gail Moss 
librarian supervisor for Alachua County 
Library District4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011
Alex Orlando / Alligator
Teller, right, performs a ball-and-cup magic trick, explained by Penn, left. The duo performed tricks and 
explained their magic to a crowd of 1,800 at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Wednesday. 
Penn and Teller performed several magic tricks for the audience
PENN , from page 1By LAUREN ETTLINGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A beetle native to South America has be-
come a friend to cattle ranchers in Florida 
and other southeastern states. This beetle eats an invasive and noxious weed that destroys pastures.
Julio Medal, a UF entomology researcher, 
has been working with his team since 1994 to find a bug that could get rid of the weed. Chemical herbicides and mowing were used with limited success to control tropical soda apple for the last decade. However, these ex-pensive methods only worked temporarily.
 In Florida, TSA has infested about 150,000 
acres of pastureland.
Medal said it was difficult to find a bug 
that would not feed on anything except TSA. TSA is related to plants like eggplant, toma-toes, pepper and potatoes, and bugs that feed on one of those plants usually feed on them all.
However, the Gratiana boliviana, a Brazil-
ian leaf beetle, proved to be the bug for the job.
“Bugs work slower than pesticides,” 
Medal said. “Sometimes it can take up to two years for the bugs to get rid of the weeds, but in the long run they work better and are cheaper than pesticides.”
The beetle has not been able to survive 
colder climates in northern Florida and southern Alabama, said Medal. 
He is now working to gain approval from 
the USDA to release two more insects to con-
trol TSA.
The beetles have de-
creased the population density of TSA by about 90 
percent in central Florida in about two years, according to William Overholt, a researcher on the project.
Cattle ranchers in Okeechobee County 
saw results after only two months.
“A woman called me in October, two 
months after we had released the beetles, and said, ‘You have to come see this. I can’t believe it,’” Medal said. “She was so happy with the results she told me she wanted to build a monument for me.”Beetle could save pastures n THEY WANT A FEE, SIMILAR TO UF, THAT WOULD 
ALLOW STUDENTS TO RIDE THE BUS FOR FREE.
By RACHEL STEPHENS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Almost an hour passed after his classes ended Friday after -
noon, and Ken Haberland, a first-year student at Santa Fe Col-
lege, sat at the bus stop waiting to go home. When he boarded the bus, he had a 45-minute ride ahead of him. 
SFC’s student government is still working to make riding 
the bus less of a hassle. Tuesday will kick off this semester’s collection of signatures for the Start the Bus! initiative, said Guadalupe Lawrence, the spokeswoman for for initiative.
Start the Bus! is led by the Santa Fe Student Government 
and would make it possible to include a bus fee in tuition to provide unlimited, more reliable bus service for SFC students. The fee would be capped at $3.50 per credit hour and would allow students to ride buses for free.
A push is being made once again to gather support for the 
newly modified initiative before it will be brought to Tallahas-see sometime in the next few months.  
The student government will gather signatures at the 
Sweets for our Sweets event Tuesday as members pass out doughnuts and Valentine’s Day candies, Lawrence said. 
Lawrence said they got more than 2,000 signatures last fall.The initiative presented last year would have affected all ju-nior colleges in Florida. It was vetoed because the inclusion of a bus fee in tuition wouldn’t necessarily benefit all of Florida’s junior colleges, Lawrence said. 
This year, the initiative is designed to be optional, allowing 
schools to choose whether they want to include a bus fee with tuition. 
If the initiative is passed, a Transportation Fee Committee 
would need to be formed to organize routes and sched   ules in 
coordination with where SFC students live. 
But not all students are sure they would want this initiative 
to pass. Haberland said he would likely not support the initia-
tive because he would have to pay more money if it passed. 
However, he also said that he would like to have better bus 
service.
By SARA KANER
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 50 students were up against 
the clock as they attempted to pop 720 balloons during an event dedicated to promoting financial literacy Wednes-day.
The group gathered on the Plaza of 
the Americas to pop the purple balloons the UF Bateman Team put out to pro-mote the launching of its SCORE! Cam-paign.
The team challenged students to pop 
the balloons in seven minutes and 20 sec-onds, but the crowd made it in just one minute and 57 seconds.
The 720 Balloon Pop Challenge aimed 
to spark interest and prove to people that financial literacy can be fun, said Bateman Team member Seeta Rebbapra-gada.
“The event went fantastic and we 
hope it will drive people to our website and our sessions,” she said.
The UF Bateman Team is composed 
of five fourth-year public relations ma-jors who are given a client and must cre-ate a public relations campaign to be en-tered in the PRSSA Bateman Case Study 
Competition. 
The team’s client this year is Ally 
Financial Inc. Its campaign aims to pro-
mote and educate and Gainesville com-munity about financial literacy and safe money management habits, Rebbapra-gada said. 
The team spent last semester re-
searching for the campaign, conducting surveys to find out about people’s finan-cial literacy and discovering  ways they could teach people about money man-agement.
The team’s next step is to implement 
its campaign, which includes holding financial literacy sessions on campus, in local high schools and within the Gainesville community . 
“It’s been 10 years since the UF team 
has won,” said team member Maura Reese. “It’s a good time to break the streak.”Santa Fe’s student government fights for bus rights
Group holds balloon race
“It’s been 10 years since the 
UF team has won.”
Maura Reese
Team MemberON CAMPUS
UFResearc h
explained right there on the 
page. That did it for him.
“I swore that I hated magic 
and I hated scientists more than anything,” he said. 
These were two of the slough 
of reasons the magician duo 
gave Wednesday night at the 
Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts as to why they don’t be-lieve in magic, holistic medicine 
or God.
The magicians greeted the 
crowd wearing orange and 
blue Gator baseball caps as they 
walked on stage.
As they sat down for the 
moderated Q-and-A session, 
they were asked their first ques-tion, offered by a student before 
the show: “Will Teller speak to-
night?”
Teller, known for seldom or 
never speaking on their show, 
“Penn & Teller: Bullshit!,” nod-
ded his head, then opened his mouth.
“I just like the idea of lying 
without talking,” he said.
For their first act, Teller’s 
hands flew through the move-ments of a ball-and-cup trick us-ing red Solo cups and aluminum 
foil balls while Penn dissected 
and explained the whole thing.
To prove the point, they did 
the trick again — with clear 
cups.
For another trick, Teller 
picked an audience member and 
handed the volunteer an apple stuck with 100 sewing needles.
The magician plucked them 
from the apple about 20 at a time and swallowed them.
Teller wound up about 6 feet 
of twine and gulped that down, too.
After a massaging his belly 
and flashing discomforted looks to the audience, he coughed, gagged and produced the string 
from his mouth with all the nee-
dles threaded on it.
Before the show, a line of 
about 1,800 people wrapped 
around the Phillips Center to 
see the show, hosted by Accent. 
A packed house, said Corey 
Portnoy, Accent’s chief of staff. Tickets were sold out 20 minutes 
after the box office opened.
Accent paid Penn and Teller 
$57,000.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
n THE TRUCK IS NOT 
ALLOWED TO PARK ON UF PROPERTY.
By KATY DORAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
An inch too close. 
Now, too far. On the driver’s third attempt, 
the giant white truck turns care-fully into Emerson Alumni Hall’s 
rear entrance for the perfect park-
ing job in order to avoid fines and charges from UF and the City of Gainesville.
The Chow Now Food Truck, 
owned and run by Jules Goll-ner and her company, The White Apron Catering, offers a menu with specials like Cuban roast 
sandwiches, meatball subs and 
crab cakes every Tuesday.
The truck serves up to 30 peo-
ple every week outside Emerson, the closest legal spot to UF.  
According to UF regulation 
documents, the truck cannot park and sell food on UF property. 
Other regulations keep Gollner 
from bringing along the business’s mascot. 
Rusty, her 15-pound terrier-
chihuahua mix, is not allowed in the truck, she said. 
Dogs and parking issues aside, she said the catering industry has, 
like other businesses, been af-
fected by the economic downturn, resulting in a tight budget and a careful dispersal of the company’s 18-cent business cards.
The truck could sell food at 
places like fraternity houses, but most organizations request a min-imum of $1,000 just for a parking 
spot, she said. 
Without sufficient funds, such 
prices slim the list of potential 
clients and leave 
Gollner to slowly spreading the truck’s reputation.
“It’s only hard because we’re 
not known yet,” she said.
Locals like Karen Smith, a pro-
gram assistant in planned giving for the UF Foundation, are drawn by the idea of serving fresh food from a vehicle.
“I’d never grasped the concept 
of eating off a truck until about a month ago,” she said. “It was only when I found out that it was 
through White Apron that I elect-
ed to try it.”
And in case anyone tries to 
steal from the vehicle, Gollner has a defense mechanism.
“I have this sword,” she said as 
she pulled out a plastic toy with a gray blade and gold-colored handle.
She said she hasn’t used it yet.Catering truck toes 
the line to sell food
OnCampu sRubbish 
Riots
Police 
officers walk among fire from petrol bombs thrown by protesters during clashes between residents and riot police in Keratea, about 31 miles southeast of Athens, late Tuesday. Residents of Keratea have clashed repeatedly over the past two months with police guarding the site of the planned rubbish dump.
AP PhotoThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do you think Gainesville is a romantic city?Wednesday’s question: Do you text and drive?
44% YES56% NO
87 TOTAL VOTESState of Depression
Quantifying misery 
sounds unscientific at best, but we were 
still interested to see Forbes rank the 20 most miserable cities in America. 
A few cities were obvi-
ously going to make an ap-pearance — we’re looking at you, Detroit — but the number of Florida commu-nities on the list surprised 
us. Sure, our state isn’t the 
greatest, but when Miami, West Palm Beach, Ft. Lau-derdale and Jacksonville all 
showed up on the list, we 
immediately looked into the method the magazine used.
Forbes took into account 
the usual reasons for urban despair such as unemploy-ment and crime rates.
They also factored in 
taxes, weather, commute times and the records of lo-cal sports teams. 
Most of these factors are understandable, but we question the sports deci-sion. 
People didn’t stop par -
tying during the football team’s “interesting” sea-son last semester. We may 
have frowned at the games’ 
outcomes, but we moved on within the span of a few hours.
Other factors seem to 
have more of an effect on the local mood. 
Perhaps an active club 
scene should be considered. 
What about the number 
of cultural activities avail-able to residents? Does the number of parks and other green spaces in a metro-
politan area affect people’s 
moods?
What bums us out varies 
from person to person, so 
these questions make quan-
tifying misery look as silly as using formulas to find the source of happiness.On the Table
Budget tests Scott’s 
bargaining skills 
Looks like it’s time for our favorite dead-eyed, Volde-mort-impersonating governor to backtrack.
Gov. Rick Scott proposed his budget Monday, and 
he changed his tune by Wednesday. Politicians from both sides of the aisle were left scratching their heads about the governor’s radical changes, no doubt worrying about the deep cuts he had planned. 
On one hand, he may be an idiot who didn’t under -
stand the state’s situation thoroughly enough to compose a reasonable plan. On the other hand, however, we can see a spark of genius. Evil genius.
Scott may be following a Machiavellian mode of bar -
gaining, not unlike an old woman negotiating the price of a yard sale trinket. By offering a ridiculous budget that looks unfeasible to nearly everyone, he puts the ball in the legislators’ court as they carefully dissect his suggestions. 
They may take the bait and meet him halfway on his pro-
posals, and Scott is probably looking for the resulting con-cessions, not the approval of his whole budget.
Was the governor just too idealistic and hazy on the de-
tails? Is he making a smart business move by saying, “You 
never get the deal you want”?
Or maybe someone explained to him how arrogant 
“Just pass it” sounds to lawmakers. 
We just hope the budget made Scott realize Florida 
doesn’t work like a company.
President walking Egyptian tightrope
What began in Tunisia as a modest protest against 
the lack of socioeconomic mobility has spread quickly throughout the entire Arab world, from 
Morocco in the West to Yemen in the East. However, the seeds of dissent flourished most in the 80 million-strong country of Egypt. 
Honestly, when I first heard of the protesting in Egypt 
I was reserved; any shake up in the Middle East surely would be bad for us, especially in Egypt. The country is the largest and most influential in the Arab world and has been a fair ally for the past couple decades. Any change to 
the status quo would be less than ideal.
As time progressed, I realized the protests in Egypt 
are more than a good thing — they are a necessary thing. 
Fueled by grassroots activism, social media and a desire for change, the protests have been a game changer. Save 
for the hired thugs President Mubarak let loose onto the 
streets, the protests have remained peaceful and secular, 
with protesters echoing talking points that would make any American patriot proud. Men and women, Christians and Muslims, all marched in solidarity for democracy, hope and a better tomorrow. Among the signs demanding Mubarak to leave is another set of signs: signs calling for President Obama to expedite the removal of Mubarak and for the President to back the people, not the tyrant. Under -
standably, the president has quite a fine line to walk: en-couraging progress and change without creating a power vacuum that would allow less-than-wholesome factions such as the Muslim Brotherhood from gaining power. Too little support for the Egyptian people and too much for Mubarak would lead to a public unforgiving of the United States for years to come. 
The sentiment in the country is solely that of self-
determination and democracy, and any influencing on either side can prove danger -
ous. Ironically, it seems keep-
ing with the current course of 
action and encouraging the 
progress to free and fair elections is best for Egypt and the current geopolitical climate.
That said, critiques of the president are numerous but 
not in agreement. It appears the opposition and presi-dential hopefuls themselves have no true course of ac-tion. Former Arkansas governor and Fox News personal-ity Mike Huckabee criticized Obama for not supporting Mubarak enough publicly. Yet he claims, “This would not have required us to approve everything he did or deny the rights of the people of Egypt to demand a change of government.” Exactly how one supports a figure that is truly hated by his citizens and doesn’t support his deci-sions and actions is beyond me. 
On the other hand, former Minnesota Gov. Tim 
Pawlenty claimed Obama hasn’t done enough to distance himself from Mubarak and lambasted the administration for early statements that were lukewarm to the Egyptian President. At least House Speaker Boehner and Senate Mi-nority Leader McConnell both concede the President has been handling the situation “pretty well.”
A presidential call for reform in Egypt but stopping 
short of asking for Mubarak’s departure without the Egyp-tians having an overarching plan for transition would be detrimental to the world’s political and economic well-being. I am confident if any of the current Republican 2012 contenders were commander in chief they would be shrewd to follow the same path lest we lose our most in-fluential ally in the region.
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering 
major. His column appears on Thursdays.
Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
At least Brett Wagner didn’t 
use the, “But I have lots of gay friends,” excuse in his 
attack on the LGBT community in Monday’s paper. 
The FDA’s policy of prohibit-
ing men who have sex with men 
(MSMs), however they may iden-
tify, from donating blood was imple-mented in the early 1980s back when, yes, homophobia was rampant. But it also was the beginning of the HIV/
AIDS crisis, when little to nothing was known about the disease or how it was transmitted, and when it was still re-ferred to as GRID, or gay-related im-mune deficiency. Back then the policy was valid, as about 90 percent of HIV transmissions were from MSMs, but more than 25 years on the transmis -
sion rates have plummeted, and this policy is way past its expiration date. The UF LGBT Concerns Committee was absolutely correct in condemn-ing the FDA’s ban on MSMs donating blood, because it has now become a remnant of a more homophobic time. Brett, if you want to have a discussion on sexual orientation, that is a differ -
ent matter, but homophobia-related arguments aside, understanding the disease and its transmission, as well as technology for detecting and treating HIV , has improved immensely. There are finger-prick tests for HIV , which take 20 minutes, that the blood bank could do easily while people wait in line and fill out their forms to donate blood. According to bloodbook.com, blood banks test every donation of blood for a variety of STDs, including HIV , no matter the sexual proclivities of the donor. 
HIV is not a death sentence any-
more; it is a manageable disease. New medicines and treatments are being developed as we speak, and people with HIV are living longer than ever.
In addition, perpetuating the ste-
reotype of promiscuity among MSMs 
is insulting and  clearly ignorant. Promiscuity has nothing to do with 
your sexual 
orientation, which anyone on a col-
lege campus should be able to deter -
mine.  Risky behavior is not confined 
to one segment of the population, 
whether it is binge drinking, drug use or copious amounts of sex.  Un-protected heterosexual sex is far more dangerous than protected ho-mosexual sex, and that “specific type 
of sexual contact” should definitely 
be on the ban list.
While it is true MSMs have a high 
rate of infection for HIV, they are not the only ones –  rates of infection for 
identified heterosexuals have been 
on the rise, according the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Ac-
tually, rates of infection for all races 
and sexualities are on the rise, and this is hopefully because more peo-ple are getting tested.  
HIV/AIDS is not a gay disease; 
it is a sexually transmitted disease, and everyone is susceptible. If you have HIV, it is not because you  are gay or someone you had sex with is 
gay. We are not in elementary school 
anymore; that is not the worst thing in the world. HIV can affect every-one who is sexually active, and you should always be safe while having 
sex. 
It is your job to know your status, 
no matter who you have sex with 
or how often. Both the UF Student Health Care Center and the Alachua 
County Health Department offer free 
or inexpensive HIV testing. If anyone hasn’t gotten tested recently, or ever, they should go as soon as possible. Prevention of HIV transmission, and 
the eventual repeal of the blood do-
nation ban, is possible only through education. Always have safe sex, get tested regularly and, most impor -
tantly, remember that no one is im-mune, for any reason.America faces an education crisis 
During the 2010 winter break, I went 
home to my hometown, Johor Bahru, after 
four years. Johor Bahru is a major city in Ma-laysia, separated from Singapore by a thin strait. Singapore is also a rich, prosperous, 
technologically advanced and cosmopolitan 
first-world island country of no more than five million souls and less than 300 square miles of land. Comparatively, Malaysia, which is blessed with natural resources of tin, copper, rich soil and oil, languished in second place as a second-world country. Sin-gapore also boosts one of the most highly educated populations, with a vibrant re-
search and development sphere and highly 
regarded universities. My parents are such fervent believers in the power of education that all their children were educated there despite the costs and long transit time. Sin-gapore students routinely take medals in Math and Science Olympiads and ace the British GCE systems. In contrast, Malay-sia had been engaging in such a systematic 
educational regression that the University of 
Malaya, which once was regarded as the best college in Southeast Asia, is not even ranked 
in the top 100 today. The National Univer -
sity of Singapore, on the other hand, stands 
at 31, just four places behind UC Berkeley. My uncle told me that a Singaporean minis-ter, while speaking at a top Malaysian high school, declared that any high-scoring stu-dents willing to study at a Singaporean uni-versity would be given green cards immedi-ately, with all tuition, room and board paid 
for along with a monthly stipend. Needless 
to say, many stepped forward to take the of-fer. 
Now your politicians are systematically 
dismantling your education system. It looks not unlike what the Malaysian government did three decades ago. They are destroying  children’s opportunities to be well-educated, to be competitive on the world stage and to earn a livelihood. I considered my own gov-ernment’s past actions that axed Malaysian education to be an act of treason. Your politi-
cians are doing the same thing.
Education of the people and the retention 
of talents are the bedrock of any society. If the people of this country do not wake up to 
this impending educational crisis, this coun-try will lose its hegemony forever.
Gelin Looi
7LS
n n n
Alligator unfairly favors Progess Party
As an outgoing College of Journalism 
and Communications student and Unite Party student senator, I am accustomed to the clash of campus politics and the bian-nual debate over its campus media por -
trayal. However, the Alligator’s recent lack of journalistic integrity has morphed the publication’s role as an information medium into that of a politically charged message.  
On Tuesday, students were disrespected with a news-less story depicting Progress Party presidential candidate Dave Schneider volunteering. Upstanding students volun-teer their time daily and never receive media 
attention, much less on the front page, above 
the fold. The Alligator followed Wednesday with the most inaccurate account of a senate decision this campus has seen. 
Hannah Winston’s story portrayed a sen-
ate debate with a pro-gun campus Unite Party versus an anti-gun campus opposition led by Schneider. What the story failed to mention was that Unite Party senators, in-
cluding presidential candidate Ben Meyers, 
authored the bill denouncing campus gun tolerance in the first place. 
Due to the convenient misrepresentation 
of facts, students were once again victim to the Alligator’s quest to please one audi-ence with Progress Party political support.  
Looking to the upcoming weeks of election season, I urge the Alligator to remember the foundations of ethical journalism. Your job is to portray reality, not shape it. I charge the Alligator not to fall victim to the target-audi-
ence-driven media phenomena seen nation-
ally today. Instead, set the standard, report ethically and have faith in your audience to decide. 
Aschelle Morgan
UF Student Senator
n n n
Carrying a firearm unnecessary at UF
Just one month before Mike Lewis and 
J.T. Helm decided to write their pro-gun pieces in Wednesday’s Alligator, 21-year-old FSU student Ashley Cowie was shot fatally in the chest. The shooter had been 
drinking earlier in the day and was show-
ing off his rifle. Is that the kind of responsi-ble gun use Lewis and Helm want to bring to our campus?
Carrying a weapon is unnecessary. The 
UF campus is a generally safe place. UF 
ranks favorably in terms of safety when 
compared with our SEC neighbors. How many incidents of violent crime have oc-curred on campus that could have been prevented by the assailed possession of a gun? I can think only of one – the case of 
Kofi Adu-Brempong.
Adu-Brempong was shot brutally in the 
face by our own UPD. The officer who shot 
him had undergone years of training in re-sponsible gun use. It seems the only people we should be protecting ourselves from are these responsible gun owners.
Mike Lewis may find it easy to joke 
around about “John-Woo-style shootouts” 
but these two examples strike very close 
to home and perhaps can persuade him to broach the issue with a little more humil-ity next time. In light of the recent tragedy at FSU, Helm and Lewis should be embar -
rassed for inviting guns to UF. After they have been so irresponsible with their words, why should we trust them with guns? 
Conor Munro
UF student
n n n
Open campus should allow gun carry
The right to carry arms generally 
should not be infringed, except in limited places deemed sensitive. Florida defines these “places of nuisance” as airport ter -
minals, courthouses, prisons and some 
government buildings. These places in-
evitably are protected by metal detectors and security guards due to their sensitive nature. Under these circumstances, a com-mon citizen could be expected to accept a temporary forfeit of his rights knowing that, in return, these sanctuaries provide reasonable measures against danger. 
A college campus does not fit this mod-
el. There is nothing stopping anyone from carrying any type of gun right onto its grounds. In all practical respects, it is just like any other city block in the sense that it has no metal detectors or security check-points to protect its inhabitants. Because it cannot install these measures, citizens shouldn’t be denied the right to protect themselves. Anyone who suggests guns  
are not conducive to an academic envi-ronment fails to show how the threat of a criminal gunman is conducive to a learn-ing environment. They fail to explain why, on the many campuses that do allow carry, there have been zero incidences. Anyone who perpetuates a fearful vision of hordes of students visibly carrying guns on their hips is ignorant to the practical purposes 
of the open carry provision in Florida Sen-
ate bill 234.
They don’t understand why anyone 
with any knowledge of firearms laughs at their Wild West fantasy scenarios.
Sawyer Zent
UF studentSpeaking Out
Andrew Briefman
Speaking Out
Everyone faces AIDS risktheAvenue         thursday, february 10, 2011
ListThe
WATCH: The Grammy Awards
If you’re sick of hearing about the best 
movies of the year, maybe it’s time to check out the best music. For the 53rd an-nual show, Selena Gomez, Nicki Minaj and LL Cool J are among the many stars at-tending. And Katy Perry, Drake, Rihanna, Arcade Fire and Lady Gaga will all be performing. Don’t miss it this Sunday at 8 p.m. on CBS.
SEE: “Just Go With It”
Adam Sandler and Jennifer Aniston come together in this rom-com to help Sandler’s character win over his dream woman. Anis-ton’s character and her kids are supposed to be the key ingredients to his success, but we all know Aniston always ends up with the cute guy in the end. Unless it’s real life.
LISTEN: “6 Foot 7 Foot” by Lil Wayne
This song is perfect for cruising down Uni-versity Avenue or sitting in bumper-to-bumper traffic on Archer Road. Don’t let the monotonous beat fool you: Lil Wayne is back and better than ever.
READ: “The Rules According to JWOWW”
Wait, what? Did we read that correctly? Looks like this overly bronzed Jersey girl is moving from your TV to your bookshelf. Inside: “Shore-tested secrets on landing a mint guy, staying fresh to death and kick-ing the competition to the curb.” Sounds like a literary masterpiece in the making.
— LAUREN GOLDSee what’s in store for UF’s The-atre Strike Force.Stumped on what to wear on your hot date? Fifth Av-enue’s got you covered. Visit: alligator.org/the_avenueONLINE:INSIDE: 
PG 9: Check out the best of the 
best music in Gainesville in the first ever Alligrammy Awards.PG 10: Hate Valentine’s Day? Either sulk around or check out columnist Robert Imfeld’s take on the sap fest.PG 11: Can’t neglect your vid-
eogame console for one day? Check out these games to butter up your valentine so you don’t have to.PG 12: If you don’t think big 
crowds translate to intimacy, try some of these tips to create a steamy, scrumptious night in.
Britt Perkins / Alligatorpiano man
Brad Heron, owner and house player at Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar, shares a toast with the crowd Friday 
night. Rockeys opened New Year’s Eve and plays music by request only Thursday through Saturday.
UF grad’s piano bar offers musical variety
BY BRITT PERKINS
avenue writer
Take a step into Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar 
downtown and enter the world of Billy Joel. And 
T-Pain. And Garth Brooks. 
Rockeys, 112 S. Main St., opened New Year’s 
Eve but is already one of the few bars downtown 
that can pack in a crowd by 10 p.m. And, unlike 
other spots in town, variety is not lacking here.
Last Friday, as bartenders sang along while 
they mixed drinks, the crowd la, la, la’d along to “Crocodile Rock” and didn’t miss a beat during the transition to “Low (Apple Bottom Jeans).” 
At Rockeys, two pianos back-to-back 
and a drum kit fill the raised stage where crowd requests alone determine the set list 
Thursday through Saturday. Local live mu -
sic reigns on Tuesdays and Wednesdays.  
On request days, if crowd members want to hear 
a song they’ve got to pay the asking price at the time. And if a crowd member doesn’t like the song, he or she can pay more to put a stop to it.
That means a $6 bid can get your request 
bumped to the front of the line, but an oppos-ing $7 wager can make sure the first chords of “Party in the U.S.A.” are also the last. 
It’s all about interaction at Rockeys. The 
players banter with one another and are not shy about talking directly to the crowd. And some -
times, they do more than just talk. While on stage, each player has a hand-held spotlight, ready to select volunteers for games and sere -
nades. Recently, Rockeys hosted an impromptu “booty-shaking” contest with participants ages 21 to 61. 
Brad Heron, owner and house piano player, 
said the “ageless” factor where everyone checks their egos at the door is one reason people can have a good time at 
Rockeys.
After graduating from UF in 2004, Heron 
toured the U.S. playing professionally, building 
his repertoire. But Heron, a self-proclaimed die -
hard Gators fan, said each college town remind-
ed him of his alma mater.
“I missed Gainesville,” he said. “And I had 
such a good time here, and I was having such a good time in other college towns, I thought, ‘Man, I’d really like to do Gainesville.’”Heron partnered with Scott Schmailzl, owner 
of Blue Moon Dueling Piano Bar in West Des 
Moines, Iowa, and longtime friend from the pi-
ano circuit.
Tim Buie of Savannah, Ga., also joined Heron 
in Gainesville as a house player. 
Although there are regular appearances, the 
lineup doesn’t always stay the same. 
Every week, a guest player from another 
town joins the regulars on stage with a differ -
ent background and different skills, which helps 
keep things interesting and fresh, Heron said.
After going through “a million” names, Her -
on said they settled on the combination of the 
words “rock” and “keys” to brand the new piano bar downtown, but that’s often how people still refer to it. 
However, naming was not the biggest chal-
lenge people said they would face. The 21-plus, non-smoking requirements, on the other hand, 
were. But instead of being a problem, Heron 
said those two factors are what he gets compli-mented on most, besides the friendliness of the staff. 
And as for Heron’s favorite song to play?“I probably wouldn’t sit in a room by myself 
and say, ‘Oh, I feel like playing some Lady Gaga right now.’ But in front of a crowd of people that want to hear it, I mean, there’s nothing more fun 
than Lady Gaga.”
Only inGainesvilleAudience members play games, bid for songsthursday, february 10, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Celebrating love — apart
BY EUGENIO TORRENS
avenue contributing writer
When Jesse Wright wakes up on Valen-
tine’s Day, he may notice a text or even a 
missed call. 
For a stinging second, he might not want 
to check his phone. But, inevitably, he will 
slink out of bed and pick it up.
It will probably be Amber Davis — his 
girlfriend of more than one month. Wright navigated the fall semester feeling out his relationship with Davis, testing their com-patibility. They officially started dating on 
New Year’s Day.
“It was kind of like a preseason to the 
season,” he said. 
This year, he will celebrate Hallmark’s 
big day  sans his better half. While he de -
cides the best time to dial in a Valentine’s 
Day greeting, she will be delivering roses for Habitat for Humanity around Tallahassee. 
That’s right. Wright is a Gator. Davis is 
a Seminole. And they’re celebrating Valen-tine’s Day — well, sort of.
While tons of couples will smooch amid 
chocolate hearts and rose petals, long-dis-tance partners won’t necessarily embrace 
the holiday as much.
“Last Valentine’s Day, my date 
was Jose Cuervo,” Davis said.  
This year, her date is 140-plus miles away. 
That’s a stone’s throw away compared to 
the distance dividing Alex Guenov and his 
girlfriend of almost a year, Michaela Valenti.
The pair started dating about a year 
ago, met through mutual friends and kept a 
loose, fun relationship. Then Valenti gradu -
ated, and the duo had a decision to make: split now or stick out the distance.
She went to Costa Rica for six weeks and 
would go to a hotel for free Internet access 
to Skype her boo.
“It ain’t easy. That’s for sure,” Guenov 
said.
It took him two to three months to make 
the transition from a short- to long-distance relationship. “You definitely think about it every day. It kind of eats away at you, but 
usually when they call and stuff or you call 
them, it helps out.”
Fast forward to the present, where Gue -
nov’s Valentine’s Day plans vastly contrast 
with last year’s, when he made shrimp alfre -
do and a Bulgarian salad for his valentine, 
Valenti.
This year, Guenov will treat Feb. 14 like 
business as usual. Valenti will see “West 
Side Story” with her family. 
Because they talk on the phone about 
an hour every day and one makes the drive 
to see the other once or every other week, 
distance really hasn’t been a strain. On the 
contrary, it livens up the relationship.
“If we fight or anything like that, it’s 
wasted time,” Valenti said. “It’s like, ‘Yeah, I’m leaving tomorrow,’ so we have to do all 
these things and have fun. We can’t just sit 
around and be bums.”
Both couples stress trust and communi-
cation. 
“Understand there’s a big chance it’s not 
going to work,” Davis said. “Make sure it’s what you want to do and you trust the per -
son enough — when you only see them two days out of every two weeks — if you’re a 
jealous person, it’s not going to work. Ever.”By THOMAS NASSIFF
avenue contributing writer
Every year, national record executives 
and experts honor who they think are the 
best of the best in the music industry.  Here, we’ve narrowed down Gainesville’s best — musicians who for the past year have un-
knowingly competed for awards in catego -
ries similar to those in the Grammys. For 
the first time ever, the Avenue presents its top picks for locally formed acts. We intro -
duce to you: the Alligrammys.
w Song of the Year
“Channel 10” / “Channel 11” - Less Than 
Jake
Less Than Jake’s “TV/EP” is a collection 
of 16 covers of TV theme songs and com-
mercial jingles. We had to pick both songs to amount to the length of one normal song. “Channel 10” is the theme song from “Spongebob Squarepants” and “Channel 11” is the theme from “That ‘70s Show.” Believe us, Less Than Jake’s ska-punk rep-ertoire makes singing along to songs you’ve 
known for years even more fun.
w Album of the Year
“White Crosses,”  Against Me! 
Gainesville’s pride and joy continue 
to evolve from album to album, and the group’s studio LP does not disappoint. Against Me!’s brand of folk-punk and rock ‘n’ roll — this time, with catchier hooks and 
friendlier instrumentation — has never been 
more accessible.
w Best New Artist
Greenland is Melting
The Gainesville natives in 2009 re-leased “Our Hearts are Gold, Our Grass is 
Blue” and in 2010 gained local notoriety. 
The band’s style of bluegrass is perfect for listening to at social events or while hang-ing out with friends. Keep an eye out for “Folk Songs From Florida,” which the band will self-release in 2011.
w Best Vocal Performance
Tom Gabel - Against Me!  
Gabel’s performance on “White Crosses” 
is a memorable one, bringing Against Me!’s 
sounds to more headphones than ever. 
w Best Band
Less Than Jake
This band continues to put out witty, well-
thought-out material. One of the grandfa-
thers of ska-punk, Less 
Than Jake seems stron-
ger than ever after more than a decade of play -
ing together. This year, look out for re-releases of the group’s two early albums, “Losing Streak” 
and “Hello Rockview.”
w Best Record Label
No Idea Records
Although it was a close call between 
No Idea and Paper + Plastick Records, No Idea takes the prize because of its work on The Fest. Every year, the Gainesville-based label puts on the three-day punk festival, and in 2010 the event had its ninth anni-versary. The Fest is every crusty punk’s fa-
vorite weekend, and, as innocent student 
bystanders know, standing by and watching the mayhem unfold makes the experience all the better.The Alligrammy Awardslong distance 
10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, february 10, 2011
Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
UF junior Kevin Olivier 
mixes neutrals to 
create this European-
inspired look. Also, see 
how this philosophy 
major proves guys 
can accessorize, 
as he’s got a scarf, 
belt, backpack and 
sunglasses.
UF English major 
Anthony Perrin wears 
dark jeans, a T-shirt 
and a leather jacket 
with bright red Vans. 
Although he’s stylish, 
this junior said he 
can’t take all the 
credit for the outfit. 
“My girlfriend dresses 
me,” he said.For the latest frills, flair and every-
thing fashion, check out what our lens 
caught this week. 
Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
UF English freshman 
Lindsey Jones uses 
color to make her 
outfit stand out. Her 
bright blue dress and 
purple cardigan are 
complemented nicely 
with tights and boots.
UF zoology major 
Savannah Smith 
builds her outfit 
around one piece. “I 
decided I wanted to 
wear tights today and 
went from there,” she 
said. Combined with 
a sweater dress, this 
freshman’s look makes 
for a warm alternative 
in cool weather. Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator StaffPhoto Illustration by Dana Burke and Cynthia Despres / Alligator Staff
UF softball player Kelsey Bruder hangs out indoors, glove and ball in hand, during a rainy day at practice.
AMPED: left-fielder Kelsey Brudermusic 
BY BENJAMIN EVANS
avenue writer
Kelsey Bruder is a UF softball player 
who’s beefed up her personal music cat-
alog since moving to Florida to attend UF.
“Coming from California, we like a 
lot of pop-punk and rap and R&B,” said Bruder, who is originally from Corona. “Coming down south, a lot of my team-mates have exposed me to a little bit of 
country music.”
The team always has music playing 
when it’s hitting, she said.  Like a pro 
wrestler walking out to pulverize his or her opponent, UF softball players have in-dividual “walk-out songs” they play when they’re up to bat — a song that says some-thing like this: “I can do this,” or, “Prepare, my poor foe, for your fated clobbering.”
This season, Bruder has chosen 
“Who’s that Chick?” by David Guetta, fea-turing vocals from Rihanna as her walk-out song. Here are some other tunes the UF athlete uses to get amped:
“Bass Down Low” by Dev (feat.The Cata-racs)
“It’s got a good techno beat. Kind of 
makes me want to fist pump.”“Fall for Your Type” by Jamie Foxx (feat. 
Drake)
“I can listen to Drake all day. I love his 
voice, love his rhymes.”
Avenue: Did you watch “Degrassi”?KB: Yeah, isn’t that weird. That’s kind 
of weird [laughs].
“Wish You Were Here” by Pink Floyd
“Definitely different than everything 
else I have on the list, but I love the lyrics. 
‘Two lost souls swimming in a fishbowl.’ 
Pretty cool.”
“Take My Hand” by Shawn McDonald
KB: He’s a Christian artist and I’m 
pretty sure it’s a proven fact that if you 
listen to Christian music while you work out you’re stronger and faster.
Avenue: Really?KB: My proven fact [laughs]. 
“Moment 4 Life” by Nicki Minaj “I’m for any strong females, and she’s 
unique.”
“The Boys of Fall” by Kenny Chesney
“It just makes me appreciate being a 
Gator and what I have, although I’m not a 
‘boy of fall.’”
“Vibin’” by Piccalo
 “It makes me dance whether I’m on 
second base or in the dugout.”“You Hold Me Now” by Hillsong United
“It’s another Christian song. The lyr -
ics are really good. It makes me connect. 
Definitely makes me appreciative of what 
I have and how blessed I am.”
“Chillin’” by Wale ft. Lady Gaga
“It’s just got a good beat.”
“Blow” by Ke$ha
“I’m not too big on pure techno, but it 
has a cool techno back beat, and it just 
talks about dancing and doing your own thing and not worrying about what any -
body thinks.”Wishing a new saint would march in
When I bumbled my way into high school and realized I’d have to start working for Valentine’s Day treats rather than receiving a bag of candy from classmates simply 
for existing, I got a little sad.
Sure, Valentine’s Day is a wonderful holiday in celebration of 
love. It’s arguable that it’s an even better day for a girl to kick the shit out of her boyfriend if he messes it up. But what about those who have neither love nor domestic violence to give or receive? What about all the people whose only wish is not to be bom-barded with red fliers and revolting Facebook status updates?
Similar to how Muslim Awareness Month coincides with 
Black History Month, I say the singles of the world rise up and stand proud on Feb. 14 to honor St. Raphael, the patron saint of travelers — or, in other words, single people. 
St. Raphael’s Day would work for several reasons. First, think of the economic boost a new holiday would pro -
vide. Usually it’s the chocolate, greeting card and flower indus-tries that boom this time of year. However, supporters of St. Raphael’s Day would uniformly boost the 
alcohol, ice cream and Cheetos indus-tries. Also, there’s power in numbers, and thousands of singles parading through campus would demonstrate to 
couples the total lack of ill will and envy. 
It might even be a good idea for all sin-gles to mark themselves with a jagged half-heart, letting the world know just how not miserable they are. 
Last, it’s possible that by celebrating 
singleness openly, two people might just 
fall in love. By cajoling “StarCraft” champions into the sunshine where they might meet, there’s a chance a new legion of St. Val-
entine followers will blossom. I think St. Raphael’s Day will be a 
success this year. So, single Gators, go buy your cheap Pinot and stock up on your frozen pizza — your yearly ritual of pretending not to care how sad you are finally has a name!
Robert Imfeld
Columnist Valentine’s Day is upon us yet 
again. Whether you’re single, in a relationship or just have a ven-
detta against Hallmark, it’s inescap-able. Candy hearts will rain from the 
skies, and the streets will run white 
with teddy-bear stufﬁ  ng.
  Other forms of mass hysteria oc-
cur  only one day out of the year, so 
suck it up and 
deal with it. For those who actually enjoy Valentine’s 
Day, or for 
gamers with signiﬁ  cant oth-ers, I’d be re-miss if I didn’t write a column just for you. 
  Every game isn’t a single-player 
campaign, and not all girls hate video 
games. Let’s break some stereotypes 
and take a look at a few games to play while cuddling on the couch, if only to leave the single people alone.
“Kirby’s Epic Yarn”  Console: Wii  The pink puffball who eats bad 
guys and swings a mean hammer is one of Nintendo’s best creations, and 
his newest game, released in October, 
is cuteness incarnated. Transporting the character into a world made of yarn and buttons, Kirby ﬁ  ghts thread-ed bad guys by using his mighty line of yarn, unraveling himself into different forms. Two-player co-op is a great way to get your girlfriend into this game, and there’s an incredibly easy level 
that’s beginner-friendly. 
  “Dance Central”
  Console: Kinect for Xbox 360  Mark my words: If the Kinect takes 
off like the Wii did, this will be the new No. 1 party game. “Rock Band” devel-opers have released a game that’s fun to play only with other people. The dance moves are well-choreographed, 
and the Kinect senses motion to an 
annoyingly precise degree. But the game doesn’t become truly great until the Kinect’s camera comes into play. It’s a sneaky little bitch that records the player while he or she is dancing — during the freestyle sections, playing them back for all to see. After a few days of your girlfriend making fun of 
your lame-ass attempt to booty shake, 
you’ll be praying for a breakup.
“Call of Duty: Black Ops”  Console: All  Because the “Halo” franchise is of-
ﬁ  cially ﬁ  nished, “Call of Duty” has be-come the great uniﬁ  er of this console generation. No matter your preferred genre, it’s hard to turn down an oppor-
tunity to score some headshots and to 
blow stuff up. I’ve known plenty of girls who love playing “Black Ops” on Xbox Live, and the best relationships are about sharing what you love. If you’re a hardcore guy with a kill ratio better than some Navy SEALs or a girl who just enjoys venting, “Black Ops” could be a great way to spend Valentine’s 
Day. Who needs a heart-shaped box 
when you can kill communists? thursday, february 10, 2011  u ALLIGATOR, 11
Gamer
Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistVideo games 
your girlfriend 
won’t hate
Video games 
12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, february 10, 2011
Tips for a steamy night in
BY RICHARD O. STEHLI
avenue writer
Valentine’s Day is here, so we’ll all be head-
ing  to our favorite restaurants for fancy din-
ners under ambient lighting, right? Not this guy.  
I have a laundry list of reasons not to give in to the traditional (read: modern consumerist) way we do Val-
entine’s Day dinner.
For starters, I don’t feel very intimate when I’m  sur -
rounded by 50 other people trying to feel intimate. Fur -
ther, dining out is expensive! I’m a college student, af-
ter all. Even worse, this year Valentine’s Day falls on a 
Monday, which is Hipster Sunday, and everything with 
any local charm in Gainesville is closed.
Most importantly, my bedroom is miles from the 
nearest ritzy restaurant, and I like to keep my eye on 
the prize.
Plus, I won’t deny it — I forgot to make reserva-
tions.
Am I worried? No. Why? Because whipping up a 
fabulous, easy and affordable Valentine’s Day feast is as easy as Man’s Food (FOS 2001).
There are a few basic things to remember about 
courting a woman (or man) through food, regardless of 
what you choose to make.
Looks matterWe eat with our eyes as much as our mouths. Prob-
ably more. As such, pick colorful ingredients. Purple 
cabbage, red tomatoes, orange peppers and colorful salad greens are all great visual complements to any -
thing you cook, even if you use them just as a garnish.  
Texture is important, too. Hulking slabs of meat are 
boring, so keep your dishes open-faced and let things 
stack up or stick out. Shapes like stars or spirals are 
a plus.
One word: plating  
Think of plating like explosions and boobs in an 
action movie: No matter how bad 
the plot and acting are, gratuitous explosions (and breasts) will make 
everything more tolerable. The 
same  holds true with food. Google search  pictures of food similar to 
what you’re cooking, and organize 
your plate accordingly.
Keep things hot
Another trick is to heat plates in the oven. For one, 
your food will stay toasty longer. More importantly, dan-ger is the world’s oldest aphrodisiac. Nothing turns on 
a woman like danger, and nothing screams danger quite like a 400-degree plate next to your hands.
Drink something sweet
A final trick is to drink your dessert. Fruit lovers, 
try Lindeman’s Framboise Lambic, something akin to raspberry champagne. For the chocoholics out there, 
try a Godiva chocolate liqueur. Ask around at your fa-vorite liquor store, and you’ll be pleasantly surprised at how many ways you can imbibe your final course.By MAE BASIRATMAND
avenue writer
Valentine’s Day is a celebration 
of love. And with that, for whatever 
reason, we’re exposed to copious amounts of chocolate, tempting those of us on a health kick.
Between gift exchanges, parties 
or the spike of pink and red wrappers in the checkout line, it seems the creamy candy is everywhere.
For all the closet chocoholics, the 
sappy couple at the fondue fountain, the loners binging in front of the TV or anyone looking for an excuse to munch on the holiday classic, here 
are a few ways to eat the sweet stuff 
in keeping with your good health.
Chocolate is made from the co-
coa plant, which has health benefits similar to those from some vegeta-bles. Vegetables contain flavonoids, which act as antioxidants, and the fla-vonoids available in the cocoa plants help relax blood pressure and lower 
cholesterol.  But before reaching for a candy 
bar or a piece of cake, remember not all types are healthy.  One trumps them all: dark chocolate. It contains more antioxidants than milk choco -
late or white chocolate. And, best of all, it can lift your mood.
Dark chocolate contains the neu -
rotransmitter serotonin, which acts as an anti-depressant and stimulates 
endorphins, which provide the feel-
ing of pleasure.  This is the reason you experience that feel-good sen-sation after consuming just a small dose of it. In addition, dark chocolate contains high levels of potassium and magnesium, and it provides vita-mins such as B1, B2, D and E. These can help regulate blood pressure.   
   There is no established recom-mended serving size of chocolate, but just remember: Moderation is key. So, when walking down the pink aisles of the convenience store, mak -
ing a smarter decision on chocolate could lead to a treat for not only your tummy but your body, too.Healthy sweet stuff
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-
11-25-1
**6 Bedroom House**
Walk to class. Pool. 2 Living Rooms.
Game Room. 3 Bathrooms.
Lease begins August 5.
Please call 561-866-8234 for further info.
2-11-5-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet Friendly
Prem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-20-10-70-2
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-11114-20-10-70-2        2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 10-2  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-16-10-40-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$439
2/1 *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-18-11-20-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-15-11-24-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-15-11-19-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-15-11-19-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    2-17-11-20-2GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-
11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 
15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-
yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-15-11-9-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, big 
yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D provided. 
Fireplace in living room & game room w/ bar 
area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo. 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-15-11-9-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   2-21-11-14-2
Summer Place
One Bedroom *$439
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-49-2Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   2-18-11-10-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$360-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com2-15-11-4-2
Cozy, Private and Close to Campus!
2-Bedroom Apartments available for rent im-
mediately!!! Close to Butler Plaza, UF and 
bus routes.Short leases available.
For more info, please call 786-512-0628   
2-15-5-2
The Price You Want, The Convenience You 
Need! $650 - 2BR/2BA apartment walking 
distance of UF, shopping center and bus 
routes. Open Floor Plan - Small Pets allowed. 
Available for rent immediately 352.262.2828   
2-15-11-5-2***NICE AND SPACIOUS APARTMENT TWO BLOCKS FROM BEATY TOWERS****920 SW Depot Ave apt. 15. Great location and great price. Pets allowed. Parking and laundry. camipizano@yahoo.com   2-16-5-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-414, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.   2-14-10-
4
1 or 2 male roommates needed. 2BRs avail 
in 3BR/2BA house. Close to UF campus, on 
bus route, large fenced-in backyard. Cent H/
AC, pets welcome. $400/mo + elec. Call 561-
706-5378    2-15-11-10-4
Looking for roommate in a 3/3 apartment in 
Hidden Lake. Current roommates are easy to get along with. Pet-friendly. Easy bus routes to campus. Nice pool and gym with free tan-ning $440/mo. Contact (352) 346-54592-18-8-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      2-11-11-70-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   2-15-10-35-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
3-16-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-16-25-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, 
phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications 
using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small 
company in G’ville, great work environment. 
About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   
2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   2-25-11-17-14
NANNY NEEDED   25-30hrs/wk; $12/hr
3 kids:  infant to 7yrs;   M-F 2-8pmclean bkkg; exp + refs; long term commit;email resume, sched, pix, + hello toNOAH'S ARK NANNY: gnv@nanoneone.com    2-10-11-5-14
ATTENTION SMOKERS!!!
Smokers are needed to participate in a study
assessing the effects of various activities
on smoking. Compensation provided.
336-406-3706 or uflsmokelab@gmail.com
2-15-7-14
Summer Camp Counselors Needed
Trail's End & Chestnut Lake Camps - PAGuaranteed Experience of a Lifetime; Limited openings for Sports Specialists, Crafts Specialists, Lifeguards & Bunk Counselors; June 17th - August 14th Gain experience working with kids. SUBMIT AN ONLINE APPLICATION NOW! www.trailsendcampjobs.com   2-18-11-10-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE 
NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + in-centives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   2-18-11-10-14Gator Dining Services, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, has an imme-
diate opening for experienced cooks.
 
We offer flexible schedules, competitive pay, 
and a great working environment. Those 
interested in joining this dynamic team can 
apply online at www.gatordining.com or 
in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.   
2-14-11-5-14
Family CARE GIVERS is Looking for RN's 
for Home Visits to give Meds. Immediate 
opening competitive pay please call today! 
(352) 307-8044   2-15-11-5-14
MOBILE WAITERS NEEDED - Immediate 
Interviews. PT, avg. $40-$60 per 3-5 hr shift, 
make your own schedule. Must have own ve-
hicle, cell phone with texting, be 21+ y/o. To 
apply go to www.d-d-i.com or call 888-334-
9675 ext. 1.     2-10-11-2-14
Delivery Drivers needed,
Must know the area and the grid system, with open avialibility.apply at Five Star Pizza downtown. 210 sw 2nd ave.                 2-18-11-7-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIESHOME, AUTO AND LIABILITYWHY PAY MORE? 371 9696www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-27-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
If you witnessed a collision between a Publix 
truck (semi/tractor-trailer) and a pick-up truck 
on August 23, 2010 at the Publix located at 
SW 34th Street and University Ave, please 
call (352) 240-9006. REWARD.
2-16-11-7-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
WANTED: Singers/Rappers. Win $100,000 
Production Deal from YOUNG JEEZY'S DJ. Win FREE AUDITION: SAT FEB 12th @ Paramount Plaza 2900 SW 13th St 10am. Bring a demo. Info: 305-814-0247   2-11-11-5-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011
Sports
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
CLAYE IN RUNNING FOR BOWERMAN UF SWIMMERS RECOGNIZED TEEING OFF WITH TYLER JETT THE GATORS HAVE LOST SEVERAL CLOSE 
GAMES AFTER STARTING FLAT. 
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators believe in making an impact in the first four 
minutes of the game. But after a number of close losses, 
there’s a new time emphasis surrounding the team.
Forty minutes. 
The Florida women’s basketball team (14-11, 4-7 South-eastern Conference) came out flat and never held in a 
lead in a two-point loss to Ole Miss a 
week ago, and it trailed by 11 at halftime against Vanderbilt before surging back and forcing double overtime in the 103-
97 loss. 
“I’m proud of our fight, but like I told 
the girls and say to myself, we just have 
to have that same fight from the begin-
ning,” guard Deana Allen said. “Our 
problem is we just play with that fight in different mo-ments of the game.”
The Gators gave up multiple easy buckets against the 
Commodores when their defense was slow to get back in 
transition.  It was the clear-cut difference-maker in another close game for Florida.
“When you look at a game that could have decided by 
one possession, you’ve got to visit those things,” coach Amanda Butler said.
While last month’s meeting with Tennessee (22-2, 10-0 
SEC), an 83-40 shellacking, certainly was more than a one-Gators placing greater focus on maintaining intensity
See W-HOOPS, PAGe 18Butler
n Ross Ohlendorf, who went 1-11 last season with the Pirates, won his arbitration 
case against the Pirates. Team executives were disappointed, not because it cost 
them more money but because Ohlendorf used up his lone good effort of the year. … NY Rep. Christopher Lee resigned after shirtless photos surfaced online. Don’t worry; he’s still a candidate to replace Sammi Sweetheart next year, MTV confirmed.nJunior swimmers Brian Howell 
and Anna-Liisa Pold were named to the 2011 SEC Swimming and Diving Community Service Team, which was announced Wednesday.n Jumper Will Claye was added Wednesday 
to the watch list for The Bowerman, col -
legiate track and field’s most prestigious award. The junior joins teammates Jeff Demps and Christian Taylor on the list.AP Photo
Florida guard Erving Walker drives to the hoop during the first half of the Gators’ 79-60 win on Wednesday. Walker led UF with 25 points on 7-of-9 shooting.
By GReG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
COLUMBIA, S.C. — After picking up two 
critical victories during their best week of the 
season, the Gators came out Wednesday and avoided a letdown in a big way. 
No. 17 Florida (19-5, 8-2 Southeastern Confer -
ence) dominated South Carolina (13-9, 4-5 SEC) from start to finish, never trailing en route to a 79-60 victory in Columbia. 
“We’re just going to stay focused,” senior 
forward Chandler Parsons said. “Ranked or not ranked, we need to come out here with the matu-rity just to play to the best of our ability.” 
Parsons avoided a personal letdown as well, 
recording his third straight double-double and sixth consecutive game with 10 or more re-bounds.
In his first contest since being named Na-
tional Player of the Week, Parsons nearly logged a triple-double, finishing with 14 points, 12 re-bounds and eight assists. 
The senior was effective at facilitating the of-
fense and crashed the glass on nearly every re-bounding opportunity. 
“What he’s doing is incredible,” coach Billy 
Donovan said. “He’s turned out to be a very, very complete player.”
Although the Gamecocks dominated the inte-
rior in their first meeting this season, the Gators attacked the basket aggressively in the rematch.
UF recorded 36 points in the paint and 18 
second-chance points while only having two shots blocked against a team that stuffed eight of their attempts when they played on Jan. 15 in Gainesville. 
Center Vernon Macklin was particularly ef-
fective on the interior, logging 16 points on 7-of-9 shooting. 
“We just went to the hole strong,” Macklin 
said. “We didn’t change anything. We just want-ed to go to the rim and keep being aggressive.”
Another player who never shied away from the interior was junior guard Erving Walker, who complemented his three floaters in the paint with 4-of-5 outside shooting on the way to a game-high 25 points.
“I felt like Erving was going to come in and 
play well, just because I feel like (South Carolina guard Bruce) Ellington played such a great game at our place and (Walker) is a competitive guy,” Donovan said. “Not that I thought he was going to get 25 points, but I knew he was going to be ready to play.”
The game was a sloppy affair for both sides, 
as the teams combined for 34 turnovers. 
This often created a frenetic pace with a num-
ber of fast breaks in either direction. 
Florida capitalized on this up-and-down 
style, scoring 15 fast-break points in the game. 
“That always makes it easy if they’re going 
to turn the ball over and give us easy points,” Walker said. “We prefer to get out and run and get easy transition points than work in the half court.”
As a team, the Gators shot 
55.4 percent for the game, their 
best mark yet in SEC play. 
Of the six players who scored for UF, five 
shot 50 percent or better. 
The only blemish for UF was its 16 turnovers, 
the most since opening conference play. 
“We were being a little careless with the ball 
in the first half,” Parsons said. “We knew they were going to run and jump and trap us and play hectic defense, so we just need to take care of the ball against pressure like that.”
With the win, Florida avenged its earlier 72-
69 loss against South Carolina.
The Gators have now beaten every team in 
the SEC East and own a two-and-a-half-game lead in the division. 
“They got us earlier this year in our place, so 
we definitely wanted to come in here and get one,” senior Chandler Parsons said. “Any time you win on the road in the SEC, it’s big time, and our guys really stepped up tonight.”UF avoids letdown, continues 
hot streak with dominant win
Men's
Bask etballpossession difference, Florida made 
similar mistakes. And the Gators real-ize they can’t afford to have that same 
mentality this time.
Allen said they can’t concern them-
selves with the name on the front of 
their opponents’ jerseys, adding that 
the way UF played in the second half 
and overtime against Vanderbilt gives them confidence going forward.
“We’ve just got to believe that we 
can do it,” Allen said. “The last time 
we met up with [Tennessee] we gave 
them too much respect.”
Allen and fellow guard Brittany 
Shine figure to play a prominent role 
against the Vols. Shine has come on as 
of late, and she led the Gators in scor -
ing in the meeting in Gainesville. Allen is the team’s leading scorer in SEC play and has shown a knack for draining 
clutch shots.
But their biggest advantage may 
be their size. Shine and Allen are the 
tallest of team’s guards at 5-foot-9 and 
5-foot-10, respectively. After Tennes-see outrebounded Florida by 20 in the 
prior matchup, its size and ability to play close to the basket will be critical in Knoxville. 
“We want to get this ‘W’ bad, but 
we’ve just got to play our game,” Shine said.
Butler agreed. “Can you play poorly and beat Ten-
nessee?” she asked, answering her own question. “No.”
But that didn’t stop her from say-
ing she believes the Gators can pull off an upset against the No. 5 team in the country.
“You have to play well, there’s no 
question about that,” Butler said. “But we feel like we can play with anyone in the country.” UF WILL DEBUT AN ENTIRELY 
NEW LEFT SIDE OF THE INFIELD.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
Francesca Enea may have been the 
Gators’ top player last season, but the 
loss of fellow senior Corrie Brooks might 
be just as difficult to deal with this sea-son. 
Brooks started at third base the past 
three years, and her graduation leaves a big hole on the left side of the infield. 
While she never wowed anyone with 
her hitting ability, she was a consistent, durable player and a strong defender at the hot corner.
“Corrie Brooks being a senior, starting 
there three years in a row, kind of some-body who flew underneath the radar, re-ally did a great job,” coach Tim Walton said. 
Brooks improved her batting average 
every season until it dipped from .301 to .285 last year.
But her strong defense at third base — 
an important spot in softball — will be 
missed the most.
After tying Megan Bush with a team-
high 15 errors in 2008, Brooks committed 
10 errors during her final two seasons. 
Walton plans to replace Brooks with 
freshman Kasey Fagan, who was named the 2010 Gatorade National Player of the Year after going 26-1 in the circle for Dunnellon High while hitting .574 with 
eight home runs and 61 RBIs. 
While she certainly has great upside, it 
won’t be easy to fill Brooks’ spikes. 
“Kasey may be a little bit more athletic 
than what Corrie was, but Corrie was just 
so solid and just game-steady and was al-ways in the right position,” Walton said. 
Even though she hasn’t proven herself 
at the college level yet, Walton is certain-ly excited about the addition of Fagan to an already-talented team. 
“We got a solid, solid human being, 
Gatorade National Player of the Year, 
valedictorian of her high school, just a 
well-rounded kid,” he said. “You get what coaches dream of. You get a kid from an athletic family that gets it both on and off the field.” 
NEW SHORTSTOP IN THE FOLD: Fagan 
won’t be the only freshman starting on the left side of the infield. 
California native Cheyenne Coyle 
should take over at shortstop for Brittany Walker, who transferred to Texas A&M after starting 48 games last season. 
Walton said despite Coyle not playing 
a game for Florida yet, she is already one 
of the best shortstops he has coached in 
his six seasons at Florida. 
He also said she is already head and shoulders above where Walker was at this time last season. 
“She can adjust on the fly if she feels 
like she’s in an uncomfortable situation 
on defense where she can’t cover this and 
she has to give up this,” he said. “She throws the ball as well as I’ve ever seen a shortstop throw the ball.”NATIONAL PLAYER OF THE YEAR WATCH 
LIST: Senior Stephanie Brombacher and 
sophomore Brittany Schutte were named to the 2011 USA Softball Player of the Year Watch List, announced Wednesday 
by the Amateur Softball Assocation of 
America. 
The 50-player list consists of 23 se-
niors, 12 juniors and 15 sophomores from 36 different schools. 
The group will be cut to 25 players on 
April 13, down to 10 on May 11 and three finalists will be named on May 25.18, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Tim Walton plans to use freshman Kasey Fagan to replace Corrie 
Brooks at third base, while Cheyenne Coyle will likely be the team’s new shortstop.
Saj Guevara / Alligator
Florida guard Deana Allen, the team’s leading scorer in conference play, will likely be a major 
factor in UF’s matchup tonight at Tennessee as the Gators look to match the Volunteers’ size.
Gators wary of talented Vols, still 
feel they can play with anyone
W-HOOPS , from page 17Florida looks to freshmen to replace Brooks, Walker
THE NEW LEFT
The Gators lost the entire left side of 
last season’s infield, as third baseman 
Corrie Brooks graduated and shortstop Brittany Walker transferred to Texas A&M. Florida will rely on two new faces, both freshmen, to fill the void.
SS Cheyenne Coyle, Freshman
As a high school senior...
-.528 batting average
-13 home runs
-40 RBI-.988 fielding percentage-20-3 record, 0.93 ERA
3B Kasey Fagan, Freshman
As a high school senior...-.574 batting average-Eight home runs-61 RBI-.989 slugging percentage-26-1 record, three no-hitters
“We’ve just got to believe that 
we can do it. The last time we 
met up with them, we gave 
them too much respect.”
Deana Allen
Florida guard
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Pro basketball referees: ‘as pure as the driven slush’?
Three years ago, NBA referee Tim Donaghy was bust-
ed for betting. 
Although fished from a coal mine of corruption, 
this “canary” never sang.
Donaghy said, “I’m alone in this.”
He got 11 months because he “cooperated.”
Huh?
* * * 
If I wrote 20 years ago what I’m writing now, someone 
would have put “two behind my ear.” 
If this tale is true, I couldn’t have written it back then. If 
the story’s a fable, then it’s a damn fine fairy tale. 
A caricature, straight from central casting of “Jersey 
Shore,” reported to my firehouse. 
Frankie had the whole package: gold chains, thin black 
mustache and a Brooklyn accent too thick for “Goodfel-
las.” 
NY firefighters tend to generalize, to categorize, to paint 
with a broad brush — nothing’s sacred. 
I figured Frankie for a “Polly-O Mozzarella.” Polly-O’s a 
brand name cheese. Not the genuine mozzarella cheese sold in good Italian delicatessens. It’s phony, a poor imitation 
wrapped in plastic and marketed for mass consumption. 
Street guys use this idiom to describe bullshit gangsters: 
“wannabes.” (Guys who act like they’re connected.) 
After working with Frankie for a month, I discovered he 
was a good firefighter and a decent guy. A little much with 
the “wise guy” shit — but an alright guy. 
Because I had owned two saloons, he asked me to help 
him set up a bar he had bought by Belmont race track. I 
said sure. 
Two months later, 
“Hey Billy, I’m stuck for a bartender Friday and Satur -
day night. You think you can do me a solid and fill in?” 
I said, “Frankie, I’d help you out, but it’s not my kind of 
joint. I work Irish Pubs. Your place is a wise-guy joint.” 
“Hey man, I’m really stuck. You gotta bail me out.” 
* * * 
I have a full bar, but nothing I can’t handle. Because I set 
up the joint, I know my way around. Most of my custom-
ers are dressed in suits and accompanied by fine-looking 
women. I’m wearing a white shirt and tie — class joint. No problems. 
A well-dressed, heavyset guy walks in and plants him-
self in the middle of the bar. 
I toss a bev-nap casually in front of him, “What’ya having pal?” He decorates the mahogany with a 
C-note. 
“Give me a Johnnie Walker Black 
on the rocks with a water side, and 
give everyone at the bar a drink. Put 
whatever’s left in your tip cup.” 
Wow, I think, this guy’s a sport. Extending my hand, I say, “I’ll tell 
the customers the drinks are on who? 
My name’s Bill.” 
He grabs my mitt and says, “I’m 
Tommy.” 
I build his cocktail and do the honors up and down the 
bar. 
I work my way down, continually pointing to the hulk 
sitting at the middle of the bar, “That’s on Tommy, that’s on Tommy.” 
I snatch the hundred and tell him the tariff’s $77. 
He says, “Throw the rest in your cup.” 
“Thanks a lot, Tommy.” 
I’ve got $500 on the Lakers game, so as I work the stick, I 
keep glancing up at the TV screen. 
Tommy says, “Ya got a bet on the game?” “Yeah, a nickel on the Lakers.” 
“What’s the spread?” 
“Four and a half.” “Watch the last two minutes of the game. I guarantee 
you Magic has the ball in his hands the whole time.” 
I say, “Yeah, well that’s why Johnson gets the big bread. 
He’s the best player on the team.” 
“Magic gets big bread because he does what Jerry Buss 
wants him to do with the ball in the last two minutes,” 
Tommy says, “and he makes it look good.” 
Buss owns the Lakers and the L.A. Forum. I’ve seen him 
at the World Series of Poker, so I know he gambles. 
Tommy continues, “Buss bets huge on, or against, the 
Lakers, and Magic brings it home for him.” 
I nod my head politely. But, I figure, what does this guy 
know? 
When the game’s over, it’s pushing 2 a.m. The bar’s thin-
ning out, and Tommy’s had six healthy pops of scotch. 
“Let me tell you a story,” he says. “Three years ago, Ve-
gas was losing a ton of money on totals in the NBA. They were getting killed on overs and unders. The casinos de-manded that David Stern, the NBA commissioner, inves-
tigate. 
“Stern said, ‘Nothing’s going on.’ 
“The CEOs said, ‘Fine. We’re pulling the NBA off the 
board because something’s going on.’” 
He leans closer to me, “Stern decides to investigate. Be-
cause if Vegas pulls the NBA games, who’s gonna watch? They find out someone’s gotten to the timekeepers. In six major cities, the timekeepers are quick or slow with the 
clock depending on whether they want to add or subtract minutes from the game. Think about it. There are so many 
fouls that even a two-second clock difference could add 
four or five minutes to an NBA game.” 
“How come I never heard anything about that?” “Why would you?” he says. “The league doesn’t want 
that coming out.” 
“What do you do for a living, Tommy?” “I tend bar.” 
“You’re a bartender. Just like me. So, why do you know 
so much?” 
“I just know.” 
The next few minutes, I wash glasses and wipe down the 
remnants of the night. 
I say, “So listen, thanks for the splash tonight. I appre-
ciate your patronage. Where do you work? I’ll come and make a stop.” 
“Don’t worry about it,” he says. “No, man. You came to see me. Let me reciprocate. I 
want to do the right thing. Where do you work? I’ll come 
see you.” 
He says, “Well, you really can’t. I work in a private 
club.” 
“A private club?” 
“Yeah, I tend bar in the ‘Ravenite Social Club.’” 
I start laughing, “Jesus Christ. You work for John Gotti. 
How the hell do you get that job? You must have to be deaf, 
dumb and blind.” 
He laughs. “Just about.” Suddenly, his story has more credibility. That’s exactly 
how those guys operate. 
They don’t buy off guys at the top. They wave big mon-
ey in front of guys that can’t resist temptation — low-level earners that can be bought. 
* * * 
Two months later, I’m drinking a cup of coffee in the 
firehouse and I grab a copy of the New York Daily News. 
Plastered across the front page is a picture of my buddy 
Frankie opening the Cadillac door for John Gotti. He had 
driven “The Teflon Don” to his trial in Manhattan. 
Holy shit. Frankie’s not a “Polly-O.” Frankie’s the real 
deal. 
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam veteran, former Bronx firefighter 
and pub and restaurant owner. He is currently a journalism 
major at UF and a standup comic. The highly irreverent and 
acerbic O’Connor performs free standup comedy in various loca-
tions in Gainesville.
Bill O’Connor
Confessions of a 
New York Bookie
sports@alligator.orgBy ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
Stick it. Flash a smile. Wave to 
the crowd. Sprint over and em-
brace your teammates. Repeat three more times. 
This is the routine of Florida’s 
crew of all-around gymnasts ev-ery time they take the floor to compete. 
The Gators’ roster currently 
has five all-around competitors: freshmen Mackenzie Caquatto, Alaina Johnson and Brittney Noble and sophomores Ashanée 
Dickerson and Marissa King. 
Although Dickerson began this 
season as the only all-arounder, 
she was quickly joined early this 
season by new regulars Caquatto 
and Johnson.
Both freshmen have already 
proved themselves to be stars on the rise. 
Johnson has won the South-
eastern Conference Freshman of the Week three times. 
Recently, she was joined by 
Caquatto after her history-mak-ing all-around debut against Ala-bama. 
“I don’t have one event that 
I’m extremely good at like some 
of the girls on the team,” Caquat-
to said. “I’m just consistent all-around for all four events. “They aren’t all huge scores, 
but they’re good enough scores to be good in the all around.” Caquatto’s 39.575 in her first 
performance was the highest total in an all-around debut in school history.
Dickerson, the squad’s veteran 
all-arounder, has competed in ev-ery event since her first meet with 
the Gators last year, and she has 
grown to love the competition because it allows flexibility.
“If you make a mistake on 
something, you can pick yourself back up on the next event and help the team out in a different way,” she said. “Whereas if you do just one event and you mess 
up, you can’t go back and redo it 
again.” 
Injured all-arounders King 
and Noble are healing quickly, 
and they expect to be back on the 
all-around roster soon. 
While Noble said she is going 
to ease back into floor and vault in the coming weeks, King has 
slowly been creeping back into 
all four events.
She has competed in all but 
bars so far this season. 
UF coach Rhonda Faehn said 
the all-around is the sport’s most exhausting position — something that poses a remarkable challenge for her athletes.
“They’re having to compete 
in so many events every single weekend, and it’s a lot,” she said. “It’s taxing on the all-arounders 
mentally and physically. 
“Sometimes, they’re human, 
and they’re going to make mis-
takes, but I think that’s what competition’s all about.”20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore all-arounder Ashanée Dickerson began the season as the Gators’ only four-event 
competitor, but she has been joined by four other UF gymnasts in the all-around competition this year.
UF GYMNASTICS
Gators adding all-around athletes as season progresses