We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 65 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  John Pelphrey 
(right) and Norm 
Roberts were hired 
Tuesday by Florida 
basketball coach 
Billy Donovan, 
replacing outgoing 
assistants 
Richard Pitino and 
Rob Lanier. 
See Story, Page 19.
La Salle University students say ethics seminar had exotic dancers
PHILADELPHIA — Students at La Salle 
University in Philadelphia say exotic danc-
ers were part of a professor’s extra-credit symposium on business ethics.
Officials at the private Roman Catholic 
school say they are investigating the March 21 seminar, which ended abruptly after the business school’s dean showed up.
Students say the dancers kept their 
clothes on. Sophomore Brad Bernardino tells WPVI-TV that one dancer gave a lap dance to assistant management professor Jack Rappaport. Rappaport did not respond to an emailed request for comment.
La Salle spokesman Joseph Donovan 
would not comment on Rappaport’s status while the investigation continues. Students say they have a new teacher.
The seminar was held at a satellite cam-
pus about 10 miles from La Salle’s main campus.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSBy ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
Most on-campus restaurants measured up to standard 
in the past year of health inspections. 
Some did not.
In the past year, 12 of the 46 eateries at UF violated 
state and county health codes, according to inspections by 
the County Health Department.
All of those infractions were minor, said David Looney, 
associate director of the business services division, which 
manages contracts between UF and its food service pro-vider, Aramark.
Among the comments in reports for five on-campus res-
taurants during inspections were “Items are to be stored 6 inches off the floor,” and “general cleaning needed.”
One or both of those comments appeared on evalua-tions for Arredondo Room, Burger King, Camellia Court Cafe, the Graham Oasis and Pollo Tropical.
One instruction for Moe’s and Chili’s Too in the Rac-
quet Club was that “effective pest control measures shall 
be taken to protect against rodents, roaches, flies and oth-
er vermin.”
Health inspector Terry Cooper mentioned in his report 
that he “observed pests in the dish washing area” during his inspection.Cooper issued the same warning for the Reitz Union 
Subway.
In the UF Foundation’s ice machine, Cooper found 
“dark spots,” which “could be mold/mildew.”
Most of these violations, Looney said, were fixed be-
fore follow-up inspections. The only repeat offender was Fresh Food Company at Broward Dining Hall, which was 
twice suggested a general cleaning.
Karen Cutler, director of communications for Aramark, 
said the food service’s employees undergo training to 
avoid health code violations like the ones at UF.
As part of that training, she said, employees and man-
agers are taught to, “prepare food according to recipes and production processes that specify safe preparation, handling and service,” and monitor temperature logs, sanitation schedules and employee hygiene standards.
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 14
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 19Sunny
84/53
Jasmine Earls / Alligator
Gainesville City Commission candidate Susan Bottcher celebrates after winning the run-
off for District 3. Bottcher defeated her opponent, Rob Zeller, with 57 percent of the vote.n BOTH CANDIDATES WERE ELECTED TO OFFICE FOR THE FIRST TIME.
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville City Commission candi-
dates Todd Chase and Susan Bottcher 
came out victorious  in their election races 
Tuesday night, officially ending the local election season and putting two new faces in city hall. 
Despite being first-time candidates, 
Chase and Bottcher, running for the Dis-trict 2 and 3 seats respectively, won their run-off contests in convincing fashion, knocking off rivals Lauren Poe and Rob 
Zeller.
Chase, a local businessman who ran on 
a platform calling for disciplined spending 
and “common sense leadership,” was able to unseat the incumbent Commissioner 
Poe, securing 2,463 votes to Poe’s 2,044. 
“I think the outcome is an indication 
that the voters of District 2 are looking for 
something new,” Chase said. “I want to 
get things done. I don’t want to sit around 
for three years.”
For some, Chase’s election represents 
a wrench being thrown into Gainesville’s 
political machine as he will be the only registered Republican on the commission once he takes office.
But Chase said he is more concerned 
with working with commissioners to find solutions to  Gainesville’s top problems than political ideologies.
“If people remain open-minded, I think 
we can get a lot done,” he said.
Bottcher, a political activist-turned-
candidate, fended off Zeller, a bar and restaurant owner, receiving 1,486 votes to 
Zeller’s 1,092.
In total, 7,085 votes were tallied in the 
run-off, which repre-
sented 16.5 percent 
of registered voters 
who were eligible. In 
last month’s contest, there were 7,819 total votes between the two races, representing a 9 percent drop this time around.
Bottcher, who watched the return re-
sults at the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections office with her family and sup-porters, attributed her win to her ability to build up her reputation and connections with Gainesville residents.
“So many people wanted this for me,” 
she said. “It’s so humbling.” 
While she acknowledged there will be a 
learning curve to her new position, Bottch-Bottcher, Chase win  
commission seats
PUBLIC HEALTH
Inspections find minor violations at UF restaurantsSEE ELECTION , PAgE 8
SEE INSPECTION , PAgE 8“Consistent with our rigorous practices, the 
issues noted in the inspection reports were all 
immediately addressed and corrected.”
Karen Cutler
director of communications for AramarkCity Election sGainesvilleNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 65 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Safid Deen, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Jam with PAM Talent Showcase 
and Open Mic NightToday, 8 p.m.Orange and BrewComedians, singer-song-writers, actors, poets and other performers will take the stage as part of Pride Awareness Month’s 2011 tal-ent show. Spots for the open mic portion are first come, first serve. While the event is free and open to the public, a donation box will be passed around benefiting the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. For more in-formation, visit ufpam.org. 
Academic Issues Forum
Today,  6 p.m. 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
Students are encouraged to attend and bring up any aca-demic issues or concerns that 
they may have. Provost Joe 
Glover and Student Body 
President-elect Ben Meyers will be leading the discussion. Free pizza will be provided. 
Game Night
Wednesday, 7 to 9 p.m.Reitz Union Game RoomJoin Islam on Campus for its 
last event. Enjoy bowling, 
pool, Taboo and other fun 
games. All are welcome.
PAM Drag Show
Thursday, 7:30 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomHosted by Jujubee, Pride Awareness Month’s”The Diva Wears Prada, a Drag Show” will feature drag queens from RuPaul’s Drag Race, drag kings, UF students and com-munity members strutting down the catwalk. The show is open to the public and free of charge. Visit ufpam.org for more information.
Europe at the Harn
Thursday, 6 to 9 p.m.Harn Museum of ArtSome of the fun activities include Make a Postcard of Europe, Art Meets Music and mini language lessons.The Mystery of the Missing DJ Irie, PINK model Chanel Iman and tons of prizes.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alliga-
tor.org. Please model your 
submissions after above 
events. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Ore. legislative prank be -
comes Internet sensation
SALEM, Ore. — Who says 
government has to be boring?
A dozen state lawmakers in 
Oregon are convinced it doesn’t need to be. They slipped the lyr -
ics to Rick Astley’s 1987 hit “Nev-er Gonna Give You Up” into their speeches on the House floor last 
year. And they did it right under 
the noses of colleagues, journal-ists, lobbyists, staff and the pub-lic.
The video was released on 
April Fool’s Day and went viral this week, attracting more than 780,000 views and comments from fans cheering the politicians eager to have a little fun while doing the people’s business.
The mastermind is Rep. Jeffer -
son Smith, a 37-year old Portland Democrat who says he wants to drive people to politics instead of driving them away with partisan venom.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Masterpiece is an in-gallery mystery for visitors to solve. It’s up to them to discover who stole a missing work of art from the Harn, why they took it and where they’ve hidden it. Get started now by viewing the videos at the Harn’s Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/HarnMuseumofArt. 
The Starry Night: A 
MasqueradeFriday, 8:30 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomPut on a mask for Pride Awareness Month’s Masquerade. Free food and refreshments will be pro-vided as well as a limited supply of masks. Dress to impress. For more informa-tion, visit ufpam.org. 
UF Semiannual Blood Drive
Saturday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.LifeSouth Community 
Blood Center on 13th Street
Come out to support the lo-cal community as well as the UF Men’s Rugby Football Club during its semiannual blood drive. There will be food, refreshments and car washes for all who donate.For more information email bstubby@ufl.edu. 
Victoria’s Secret PINK 
Collegiate ShowdownEnds April 21The Collegiate Showdown is a bracket-style voting competition during which 59 schools compete to have Victoria’s Secret PINK host its annual Back-to-School Concert at the winning uni-versity. Log in or sign up at vspink.com/pinknation. Votes can be cast once a day. Last year’s winner, West Virginia University, re-ceived a concert with Drake, SUNNY
84/53PARTLY
CLOUDY
86/60PARTLY
CLOUDY
86/62THUNDER
STORMS
89/60SUNNY
86/59SUNDAY SATURDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By CHRIS GLIDDEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The sound of retro rock filled the Rion Ballroom in the Reitz 
Union as Dr. Dog performed Tuesday night as the headliner of a 
free concert sponsored by RUB Entertainment. 
The psychedelic rock band from Philadelphia treated a crowd 
of about 400 to several songs with a ‘60s feel from their five full-
length albums. Dr. Dog, whose music blends sounds from classic 
rock and R&B, was greeted with loud hollers from the crowd. 
RUB Program Coordinator for Programs and Events Dianna 
Lampitt said Dr. Dog brought a unique style of music they knew would attract members of the community. 
“It’s very different from what we’ve had in the past,” she 
said. “But there’s definitely a niche for this kind of music here in Gainesville and the surrounding areas.”
Orlando bluegrass-folk band Goodrich & The Die Tryin’s 
opened up the show and was followed by Gainesville pop-rock group The Boswellians. 
There were about 150 audience members at the beginning of 
the show, with more trickling in as the two opening bands played. 
The crowd more than doubled in size before Dr. Dog began. Lampitt said they expected the large turnout before the event started. 
“We voted on bringing them here because they 
are quite popular,” she said. 
UF sophomore Emon Abtahi said he had been looking forward 
to the concert since he knew RUB was hosting the event.
“When I first heard about the concert, I couldn’t wait to go,” he 
said. “Dr. Dog just has such sick music. I love it.” 
The bands played on an elevated stage decked out with an ar -
senal of amplifiers, microphones and guitars. Four curtains made to look like stained-glass windows adorned the stage as audience members stood listening to the music with feet tapping, heads bobbing and hands clapping. 
Dr. Dog released its first album, “The Psychedelic Swamp,” 
in 2001. Since then, the band has released five critically acclaimed albums and appeared on the late-night shows of Conan O’Brien, David Letterman and Jimmy Fallon. 
Abtahi said that although the band’s name sounds funny to 
him, he is all about their music.
“I think Dr. Dog is funny because it sounds like a dog is practic-
ing medicine,” he said. “But even if a medically advanced dog was playing this music, I would listen.”4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
n THE BILL WOULD BE IMPLEMENTED 
IN OCTOBER IF IT PASSES.
By DANIELA GUZMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A 9th Circuit Court of Appeals decision 
Monday on an injunction against the Ari-zona immigration law might impede efforts to pass SB-136, the sister immigration bill in Florida.SB-136, which would be implemented 
in October if the Senate passes it, requires that state officials and police detain undocu-mented residents, making the act of not hav-ing physical identification a crime.
In April 2010, the state senate of Arizo-
na passed SB-1070, criminalizing undocu-mented immigrants and causing a national debate. 
In November, Florida state Sen. Mike 
Bennett presented SB-136, which resembles the immigration crackdown in Arizona.Adrian Felix, an expert in U.S. immigra-
tion policy and a UF political science pro-fessor, said SB-136 would discourage the Hispanic community, which would have 
significant economic and so-cial repercussions.
“This law is completely 
unconstitutional; it allows 
racial profiling,” Felix said. “It is very im-portant that action is taken by the commu -
nity against this bill.”
Bennett said in a public statement that his goal is to reduce drug-related crime  through passing this bill.
The population of illegal immigrants in 
Florida was estimated at about 700,000 ac-cording to the Migration Policy Institute in November 2010. 
One of the provisions of Arizona’s SB-
1070 was blocked by a federal court, spurred by the response of the Hispanic commu -
nity that staged an opposing movement for months last year through protests, speeches and strikes.
Florida immigration bill may stall after Arizona court decision
NewsNationalSTUDENT OUTREACH
By JEANETTE NARANJO
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF student Laura Mutis knows 
how difficult it is to be an immi-
grant in the United States.
Seven years later, she still re-
calls her struggle as a new stu-
dent when her family moved from Colombia to Florida. 
“I remember how difficult it 
was just to say, ‘I need to go to the bathroom,’” she said.
After that experience, she 
wanted to make the transition easier for other students. 
Mutis came up with We Can 
Achieve, a program in which UF mentors help kids in and outside 
of the classroom. Volunteers are 
paired with high school ESOL, or English for Speakers of Other Languages, students based on 
similarities and individual goals. 
Gainesville High School is the 
first school to work with the pro-
gram. 
It was selected because of 
its well-developed ESOL pro-gram and because the teachers were willing to work with the volunteers, said Bryant Adibe, 
executive director of the Young 
Achievers Foundation. 
We Can Achieve hopes to tar -
get students who are unable to reach their academic goals due to 
the language barrier and the lack 
of resources provided by public education, he said.
“The program is in data-
testing mode at the moment,” he said. “This semester we’ll be working out the kinks, but the program should be in full effect in the fall.”
Volunteers must commit at 
least an hour per week to their mentees and attend training ses-sions with the executive board. 
“We were skeptical when 
Laura approached us,” said Lou-
ise Yariv, ESOL coordinator at 
Gainesville High School. “I have been teaching for 18 years, and many UF and Santa Fe students come in to volunteer and then 
stop. But we do understand that 
they have lives and cannot al-ways commit.”
There are two teachers and an 
aid for the 60 students, accord-
ing to Susan Lomonte, ESOL and 
English teacher, but she doesn’t believe it’s enough help. 
“Each student learns differ -
ently and has different needs,” Lomonte said. “Most are capable of comprehending but will lack the confidence needed to speak English.”
The program also focuses on 
college preparation. 
The program hopes to expand 
throughout Gainesville and into 
elementary and middle schools, Mutis said. 
“I want to see the students who 
have that talent to make it using 
their full potential by opening their eyes to more than just work-ing after high school in order to help their parents,” Mutis said.
Mutis was in ESOL with 15 
other students where only two were accepted to UF. She believes those rejected were just as talent-
ed, but the language barrier got 
the best of them. 
The ESOL program needs all 
the help it can get, said Yariv, who boasted about Ligia Bermudez, a 
Spanish and bilingual aid. 
“I know they need more help, 
but I refuse cloning,” Bermudez 
said. “My husband says that one 
of me is more than enough.”
UF students help local teens overcome language barrier
“Each student learns      
differently and has          
different needs.”
Susan Lomonte 
ESOL and English teacherDr. Dog brings psychedelic sounds to UF campus
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Dr. Dog, a psychedelic rock band from Philadelphia, performs in the Rion Ballroom of the Reitz Union on Tuesday 
night. The show was hosted by Reitz Union Board Entertainment and was free to the public.
OnCampu sBy MARISA GOTTESMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Teased hair, stilettos and attitude are all 
welcome at 7:30 p.m. Thursday in the Reitz 
Union Rion Ballroom. 
Pride Awareness Month will host “Drag 
Show: The Diva Wears Prada.”
“Drag can be a lifestyle or an expression,” 
said J.J. Sadler, a first-year graduate student and co-director of the event. 
The show will have a fashion motif theme 
and will feature famous drag queens and kings, he said.
Drag queens include host Jujubee and 
Chanel from “RuPaul’s Drag Race.” The featured drag kings are Jordan West, who 
Sadler refers to as a Justin Bieber look-a-like, 
and Spikey Van Dykey . 
“I am ecstatic to meet them,” he said. 
“The energy that comes from drag queens is great.” In addition to professional drag perform-
ers, the show will feature amateurs from  University Club as well as students and community members, Sadler said. 
It is the easiest way for the gay commu-
nity to come together and be involved in a celebration, he said. 
After everyone walks down the catwalk, 
there will a meet-and-greet with the per -
formers. People will be able to 
ask for autographs and take 
photos with the performers.
Shawn Abrahams, a fresh-
man and body guard for the event as well as co-director for PAM’s talent show, will be in charge of protecting the drag queens as well as accommodating their requests. 
He is excited to meet people that he has 
seen on TV , but he is also looking forward to 
seeing the amateur performers. 
“Seeing people you may have seen in the 
Reitz Union dressed in drag is something 
people may get a kick out off,” he said.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer 
Former UF basketball player Dan 
Werner was arrested early Tuesday 
morning for driving under the influ-
ence.
Werner, 23, who graduated from UF 
in spring 2010, was pulled over after 
midnight in the 100 block of Northwest 75th Street by Alachua County Sheriff’s deputy Jahmal Ervin for driving with high beams on and no tag light, accord-ing to the police report.
Werner, who currently plays profes-
sional basketball  for Kaposvari KK in Hungary, told Ervin that he was only driving because his girlfriend had been drinking, but the officer said he could smell the alcohol on Werner and noticed his eyes were red and watery.
Werner admitted to drinking two 
whiskey drinks before getting in the car. Ervin then had him step out of the car 
and complete some field sobriety tests, 
which he failed.Werner was then arrested and 
charged with driving under the influ-ence. 
Werner submitted to breath tests 
that found his blood alcohol level at 0.065 and 0.07. The legal limit in Florida is 0.08.
Werner was released from jail on his 
own recognizance at 11:23 a.m. Tuesday by 
Judge Denise Ferrero 
on the condition he will make his future court date.
At a press confer -
ence Tuesday, UF basketball coach Billy Donovan said that he 
had not been in contact with Werner 
since the arrest.
“I feel bad for him,” Donovan said. 
“I don’t know all the details. I’m sure 
I’ll have a chance to talk to him, but I don’t know all that happened there.” 
Alligator Staff Writer Adam Berry 
contributed to this report.Former UF basketball 
player charged with DUI
Werner
Drag queens take center 
stage at Pride Month event
OnCampu sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Would you vote for Donald Trump?Tuesday’s question: Did you know we have a nuclear reactor on campus?
144 TOTAL VOTES72% YES28% NOImportant Anniversaries
Tuesday was a land-
mark day as both the 50th anniversary 
of the first manned space flight and the 150th anni-versary of the beginning of the Civil War. 
We were debating writ-
ing about either one of these monumental events, when we began to ask our -
selves which one was more 
important to us.
You could argue that 
sending a man into space, 
a realm we had only begun 
to understand, was a turn-
ing point in the entirety of human history. 
To be so far removed 
from this blue marble we 
call home is an experience 
few people have ever had or will get — especially with our space program in 
its current condition. The 
scientific and technological breakthroughs that arose from the Space Race have been integrated into our society, but they also re-
main a testament to an era 
of people looking up and dreaming when others, as has always been the case, 
looked around and fretted. 
It’s not like we don’t 
have our share of terrestrial 
problems down on Earth. It’s not only scientific and 
technological problems that 
confront us, but also those of religion and inequal-ity with answers so elu-
sive and ever-evolving that 
we can’t hope to ever find them. Such problems led to the firing on Fort Sumter and the cascade of war that 
ensued.
Even as we tried to decide 
on which day to discuss, we 
had to choose between lofty 
idealism and bleak realism, 
and we saw that history has been shaped by both.Trump Card
Early poll shows name 
recognition matters
We understand the limitations of polls and know they can easily go awry through any number of errors. And we’re hoping every possible error 
converged when CNN conducted its poll on who Repub-licans and Republican-leaning independents think should win the party nomination.
Sitting at the top of the list were Mike Huckabee and — 
we’re having trouble just writing this — Donald Trump. For now, we’re consoling ourselves by remembering that it’s very early in a race with no clear frontrunners. May-be people are relying on name recognition right now but aren’t yet ready to make a decision that will stand months 
down the road.
Part of us, however, wonders if the people polled 
weren’t sincere in their trust of a man who is more famous 
for his wives, bankruptcies, stupid TV show slogan and 
ridiculous hair than for his political viewpoints. It is also 
alarming that people are saying they would consider vot-ing for someone who may be talking about throwing his name in the ring solely to get publicity for a TV show.
Maybe we misunderstood the last few years. Do Re-
publicans want Obama to get another stint in office? This question extends beyond even the nonsensical Trump campaign. With the possible Republican candidates, we’re finding that name recognition is overriding any other 
qualifications they bring to the table. We just don’t want 
another president the world would laugh at us for. Is that too much to ask?
Stepping out of comfort zone rewarding
Let me just say it: Wakeboarding is hard. In a series 
of events that were largely out of my control due to misinformation being fed to me by a friend, I ended 
up at Wakefest ’11. Wakefest is an event organized and run by the Gator Wakeboard Club, and it took place this past Sunday on Lake Wauburg.
Arriving with the intention of learning to wakeboard, I 
instead realized the nature of what was happening when I looked around and saw the merchandizing, the sponsor -
ship and photographers. It finally sank in when someone helping me sign up asked if I’d like to be in the beginner, 
intermediate, advanced or whoa-that-defies-physics cat-
egory. My face at the time probably said it all: “I have no 
idea what I’m doing.” I felt like I was trapped in an ‘80s teen comedy.
It turns out this was a competition, though friendly, 
and I have never wakeboarded in my life. Beyond the 
series of expletives between myself and my misinformed 
friend, the day was beautiful and there was energy in the air. Also, there were energy drinks all over the tables; that’s sponsorship. But the crowd was  quite friendly, and most people were pretty open and good-humored. 
After striking up a couple conversations here and 
there, including one with a guy who had apparently been wakeboarding for some time, I’d mentally taken in about as much as I could to prepare myself to be yanked by a boat cutting its way across the lake, trailing behind while strapped to a fiberglass plank. Hopes not being too high after watching my friend repeatedly perform a move he called “the submarine” (eating water while being dragged), I failed three times in a row to lift out of the water. I was wrong to think “there’s no way I’m not gripping this hard enough.” With the cord handle snapping out of my grasp, the boat driver, captain, pilot, whatever, told me I had one more try and then we were go-ing back to the dock.
It was now or never, do 
or die, win or cry, and I don’t 
know how it happened, but somehow my death grip held, and I found myself moving forward without having the handle ripped from my hands like my lunch money be-ing taken by some bully. The board leveled on the surface of the water, and I heard the vague din of cheering at the dock over the roar of the boat motor. I was doing it. I was wakeboarding!
This lasted about five seconds, and I took the “Let the 
boat do the work” advice a too seriously, leaned back a little too far, and that’s all she wrote.
Still, there was plenty of food, sun, positive atmosphere 
and swag to go around. I got a shirt and a hat out of the 
whole ordeal, and I am sure the next time I go out to wake-
board I’ll be far more competent and fearless. By the way, 
I overheard some chatter, and remember the guy I talked to who’d been doing this for a while? Yeah, he’s a six-time collegiate wakeboarding champion or something crazy like that. Everyone watched him perform 20 minutes of “giving gravity the finger,” and it makes you appreciate how dedicated some people are to one particular thing. It is truly awesome to watch.
I strongly encourage anyone, if found way outside 
your comfort zone, to sometimes just take in the situation for what it’s worth and to give it a shot because you only live once. And even if you only get about 12 meters out before sinking into the lake like a rock with arms, you’ll walk away having surprised yourself in a good way. 
UF is full of surprises like this; go find them.Wesley Campbell is a fifth-year English major. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Wesley Campbell
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
UF community shouldn’t 
support Chick-Fil-A
I am an angry lesbian. UF 
would like to foster “a welcom-
ing and inclusive atmosphere” 
for new and old students alike. 
As an institution, we take great pride in the numerous multi-cultural organizations on our 
campus as well as the diversi-
ty and uniqueness of individ-ual students and faculty. We have programs such as Pride Organization and Friends to 
bring together gays, lesbians, 
bisexuals, transgenders and allies on campus. I am pleased that UF conveys this accepting 
environment but am surprised 
by its inaction. For the past few months, one of our res-taurants on campus has been embroiled in controversy over 
their statements and monetary 
donations to anti-gay organi-zations. Chick-fil-A used its charitable arm, The Winshape Foundation, to donate more than a million dollars to anti-
gay political organizations. 
While I love waffle fries 
as much as the next person, I 
think UF ought to reconsider 
their involvement and sup-
port of Chick-Fil-A. I under -
stand the company maintains an image of Christian moral values by closing on Sundays, 
but where is the corporate re-
sponsibility? If large, national corporations are supporting discrimination of marginal-
ized groups, how am I sup-
posed to believe that I am ac-cepted and valued? UF needs to re-examine its value system and see if Chick-Fil-A really 
fits our attitude.
Megan “Chase” Bissell
UF studentLetter to the Editor
Rep. Paul Ryan’s budget plan is causing a furor 
in the higher-education circuit.
The budget plan, a recent version of which 
bears the title “Path to Prosperity,” aims to moderate what some see as a catastrophic government debt by 
cutting numerous government programs, reducing 
spending, and redesigning Medicare. Regardless of partisan divides and opinions about the national debt and deficit, ideological adversaries should agree on one thing: Any proposed cuts should not occur in pro-grams that buoy people who are struggling.
Pell Grants, which provide financial assistance to 
low-income students, are one such program. The fed-eral grants provide up to $5,500 per year, on a sliding 
scale based on need, to college students. Pell Grants 
are not the singular cause of our fiscal problems, and cutting them is not the solution; the Editorial Board hopes that our U.S. representatives will resist the pres-sure from fevered peers to be “fiscally responsible” long enough to avoid slashing sensitive programs.
It would be the worst kind of blinkered partisan-
ship to target only Ryan: Even President Obama’s proposed budget from February would remove year-
round grants and exclude more students from receiv-
ing full awards. But Ryan’s proposal goes above and beyond; it would cut up to $850 from each students’ grant — money that many struggling students can’t replace. Two U.S. representatives visiting Iowa City on Monday mentioned Pell Grants. Rep. Michele Bachmann, R-Minn., reminisced about paying $8 per credit hour when a DI re-porter asked her about Ryan’s plan. “You can see there’s tre-mendous inflation in higher education,” she said, indicat-
ing a need for greater affordability. Bachmann did not provide any substantive support of or opposition to Ryan’s plan.Iowa’s Rep. David Loebsack, himself a recipient of Pell Grants, took a much stronger stance. He told the DI that he intended to fight for the grants that helped him succeed. “I worked hard for my edu-cation, but I also had a lot of help with financial aid,” he said.
Despite the specter of freeloaders imbedded in our 
national consciousness, many Pell Grant recipients would agree. Recipients of the grants, according to a 2009 study , are almost twice as likely to be financially independent and have their own dependents than students who don’t receive grants, even if they are about equally likely to hold full-time jobs. The vast majority of Pell Grant recipients in the 2009-10 school year made less than $30,000 per year; 70 percent of students who receive grants qualify for the complete 
award.
The grants have been expanded massively in the 
last few years, and the program is running a nearly 
continuous shortfall. Thus the reason for the proposed cuts: Pell Grants are proving unsustainable.But broad cuts in awards can’t be the solution.
The Daily Iowan, U. Iowa via UWIRECuts threaten college affordabilityUWire
Daily Iowan
Editorial Board
UWireer expressed enthusiasm for working alongside the 
commission on issues facing the city, especially on the cleanup of the Cabot-Koppers Superfund site.
While it was a jubilant night at the Supervisor of 
Elections office for Bottcher, the same could not be said for Poe, whose tenure will end in May.
“I love this job; I work tremendously hard,” Poe 
said. “That doesn’t always mean you always get to keep the job. At the end of the day, it’s up to the voters, and I support their decision.” 
Although disappointed with the results, Poe 
said he would reach out to Chase in the weeks 
leading up to the transition. He referred to Chase 
as a “good guy” and credited him for running a clean campaign.
When asked about his political future, Poe did 
not rule out a return to local politics in the future, but said his focus will be devoted to family in the coming months as his wife is expecting. 
For Zeller, another first-time candidate, Tues-
day’s results represent an uphill battle in political 
ideology that he and his campaign could not over -
come in a district that traditionally leans left. 
But this bid for public office, Zeller said, wasn’t 
about partisan politics.
“I didn’t do this for me at all,” he said in an in-
terview at his post-election celebration at XS. “I 
did this out of the goodness of my heart and for the people.”
While the outcome proved unfavorable for 
Zeller, he said he wouldn’t disqualify the idea of  running again in the future.
“But don’t tell my wife,” he said jokingly. 8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
Alachua County Commissioners may be 
asking the owners of a contaminated former 
wood processing plant to pay up — and they aren’t the only ones looking for compensa-tion.
After decades of citizen and government 
frustration over the Cabot-Koppers Super -
fund site cleanup, the commission will seek $43,621.34 from Beazer East Inc. to cover staff and consultant pay that came with planning how to clean up the contaminated site. The commission is also looking into joining citi-zen lawsuits against the company.
“I think we owe it to the citizens of this 
county to at least further investigate,” Com-
missioner Rodney Long said, “so we can en-
sure justice for those citizens who have suf-fered for decades.”
The commission decided to have County 
Attorney Dave Wagner work with city staff since the Gainesville City Commission is also interested in making a claim.
At the March 22 commission meeting, Ala-chua County residents invited the commis-sion to join their lawsuit, which seeks com-pensation for the decrease in their property 
values and relocation from their contaminat-
ed homes. To date, two 
class-action lawsuits 
have been made against Beazer East by two groups of citizens. 
On Tuesday, commissioners expressed 
sympathy toward their cause but were search-ing for a legal way to enter the fight.
Wagner said he couldn’t find any legal theory that supports a local government get-ting involved in a citizen lawsuit.
But he said he would hire an expert in en-
vironmental law, Terry Zinn, to help him look 
for options. Wagner said he would be able to 
hire Zinn as a consultant for less than $5,000.
Commissioner Susan Baird and Chairman 
Lee Pinkoson expressed sympathy toward the affected residents, recapping their sto-ries of being confined to their contaminated houses because they can’t afford to sell them and move away.  
“If we can help the people,” Pinkoson 
said, “then we should try to help them be-cause it has definitely harmed the people in that community.”County asks for compensation for Koppers cleanup
Alachua Count yCommissionCommissioners want $43,621.34 from Beazer East Inc.
STUDENT LIFE
By SHELLEY GREENSPAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
While most UF students go to 
the International Center in the Hub 
to learn about study abroad pro-grams, the UF Hillel staff has flown overseas to learn more about a new study abroad opportunity.
The staff members departed Sun-
day for Israel to learn about the new 
joint studying abroad program for 
the fall semester with the University of Haifa. 
The staff includes the executive 
director, executive assistant, pro-gram director, Jewish student life coordinator and Israel fellow. They are spending eight days in Israel engaging in different aspects of the University of Haifa study abroad 
program.
University of Haifa recently coor -
dinated with UF to develop a study 
abroad program for  students. This program counts for direct UF credit hours and can be funded through Bright Futures and Florida Prepaid scholarships. 
MASA Israel enables thousands 
of students to spend a semester or year in Israel in any of their more than 160 programs through grants and will also fund an additional 
$1,000 to $4,000 for interested stu-
dents. 
“After this trip to Israel we will 
have experienced first-hand the unique experience of studying at the University of Haifa,” UF Israel fellow Josh Kahn said. “We will be able to promote the program to UF students with complete confidence because we have been there.”
MASA Israel has been a catalyst 
in the developing of new, exciting and quality programs that express the many different sides to Israel, Kahn said.
Susanne Hill, executive director 
of UF’s International Center, said she visited the University of Haifa in March and was very impressed with 
the student services, academics and 
extracurricular activities. Students will have the option 
of participating on weekend tours, trips and excursions, cultural eve-nings and lectures throughout the country, according to Hill.
The UF in Haifa program is mul-
tidisciplinary and interactive op-portunity that allows students to receive up to 15 credits. Students are expected to have a background in humanities and social sciences and to have completed at least one year of university study at the under -
graduate level.
Hill said she expects 10 students 
to participate in fall.
Hillel staff tests new study abroad program in Israel
Jasmine Earls / Alligator
City Commissioner Lauren Poe watches election results at the 
Supervisor of Elections Office. He was defeated by Todd Chase.
The newly elected 
commissioners will begin their terms in office next month
ELECTION , from page 1
“Consistent with our rigorous practices,” 
she said, “the issues noted in the inspection re-
ports were all immediately addressed and cor -
rected.” 
Looney said health inspectors respond one 
of three ways depending on the severity of the violation. 
For minor infractions, the health inspector 
generally mentions the violations to the man-ager. At the second level, the violations are written down and the health inspector sched-ules a follow-up inspection the next day.
For the most severe violations, the inspector 
shuts down the restaurant until the restaurant fixes those problems.
Looney said on-campus restaurants have 
had minor infractions and follow-up inspec-tions at worst and have received slap-on-the-wrist suggestions. None have ever been shut down for health violations.
“I think we do a good job with food safety,” 
Looney said.
He said that he and Bill McGinn, assistant 
director for business services, run more strin-gent inspection of their own on-campus res-taurants. In addition to cooking surfaces and 
storage places, they evaluate lighting and the 
outside of the restaurants.
“We all eat at these locations as well,” 
McGinn said. “So we have a vested interest.”No restaurants on 
campus have ever been shut down
INSPECTION , from page 1“We will be able to promote 
the program to UF students 
with complete confidence be -
cause we have been there.”
Josh Kahn
UF Israel fellowWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Booming cannons, 
plaintive period music and hushed crowds 
ushered in the 150th anniversary of America’s bloodiest war on Tuesday, a commemoration that continues to underscore a racial divide 
that had plagued the nation since before the 
Civil War.
The events marked the 150th anniversary of 
the Confederate bombardment of Union-held Fort Sumter in Charleston Harbor, an engage-ment that plunged the nation into four years of war at a cost of more than 600,000 lives.
Several hundred people gathered on 
Charleston’s Battery in the pre-dawn dark-
ness, much as Charleston residents gathered 
150 years ago to view the bombardment of April 12, 1861.
About 4 a.m., a single beam of light reached 
skyward from the stone works of Fort Sumter. About a half hour later, about the time the first shots were fired, a second beam glowed, signi-fying a nation torn in two.
Nearby, a brass ensemble played a concert 
entitled “When Jesus Wept” as hundreds lis-tened, some in folding chairs, others standing.
Fifty years ago during the centennial of the 
Civil War, there was a celebratory mood. But on Tuesday, the anniversary events were mut-ed. Even the applause seemed subdued.
At the White House, President Barack 
Obama captured the somber mood in a proc-lamation that the date would be the first day of 
the Civil War Sesquicentennial.
“On this milestone in American history , we 
remember the great cost of the unity and lib-
erty we now enjoy, causes for which so many have laid down their lives,” the statement re-leased by the White House said.
Alluding to the war’s ultimate end in 1865, 
Obama added: “When the guns fell silent and the fate of our Nation was secured, blue and 
gray would unite under one flag and the insti-
tution of slavery would be forever abolished from our land.”
“We are the United States of America — 
we have been tested, we have repaired our Union, and we have emerged stronger,” his proclamation added.
Of about 1,200 people attending two main 
commemorative events, only a handful were 
black. One man whose Confederate ancestor 
is credited with firing the first shot of the war acknowledged his family legacy as a “mixed blessing.”
“I think it signifies the mood of the nation. 
I think we’re much more sensitive to other people and the diversity in this country,” said Linda Marshall, a 58-year-old registered nurse from Charleston, as she waited for the second 
beam of light as dawn creeped up.
A little over two hours later, as a red sun 
rose on James Island across the harbor, Con-
federate re-enactors fired an authentic 1847 seacoast mortar, signaling about 30 other can-nons ringing the harbor.
Those cannons quickly thumped and 
smoke rose in a re-enactment of the Sumter 
bombardment.
In a dispatch to The Associated Press in 
1861, an unnamed correspondent observed the 
fort’s parapets crumbling under the pounding of artillery. He wrote of gun emplacements be-ing “shot away” and shells falling “thick and fast.”
“The ball has opened. War is inaugurated 
... Fort Sumter has returned the fire and brisk 
cannonading has been kept up,” the dispatch 
said.
Sumter fell after a 34-hour bombardment.One of those on hand on James Island was 
John Hugh Farley of Roswell, Ga. Many histo-rians credit Farley’s ancestor, Lt. Henry Farley, as firing the first shot at Sumter.
“It’s a real big honor. We are very proud of 
our family,” said Farley, who had two other 
ancestors fight for the South. “It certainly is 
a mixed blessing because it’s bringing back a memory from way back but it also helps us to look at history and learn from history.”
Later in the morning, Danny Lucas, 53 and 
black, was walking out after visiting Charles-ton’s Old Slave Mart Museum, where the his-tory of Charleston’s role as an urban slave trading center is recounted.
“I have no problem with the Civil War be-
ing honored as long as it is inclusive,” said Lu-cas, a Ridgeland, S.C. resident. “I don’t think whites should be so defensive and I don’t think blacks should feel they are unwelcome to these kinds of things. I think it will fade over time.”
Lucas does think last December’s secession 
ball in Charleston, during which South Caro-
lina’s leaving the Union was commemorated, 
may have soured some blacks on the 150th events.
“The secession ball discouraged them be-
cause in their minds, they saw the ball as a celebration,” he said. With other events they may decide “I’m not going to go because there will be a whole lot of rebel yelling and carry-ing on.”
“In this moment of remembrance, let us all 
do the tough truth telling necessary for our nation to finally heal from the sins of slavery and fratricide,” said Benjamin Todd Jealous, the president and chief executive officer of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in a statement released by the civil rights group.
“Commemorative events must neither ig-
nore slavery as the principal cause of the Civil War, nor romanticize those who fought to keep African Americans in slavery,” he said. “This is a time for the nation to reflect and repent, not ignore - let alone celebrate - the atrocities that tore our country apart.”
State Sen. Glenn McConnell, president pro tempore of the South Carolina Senate and a Civil War re-enactor, told the audience of 
about 700 on James Island that the effects of 
the war are still being felt.
“The War Between the States triggered 
generations of disputes and controversies be-tween regions, races and cultures,” he said.“Why was the war fought? Was it about 
slavery or states’ rights? What does the Con-
federate battle flag stand for? Is it a symbol 
of bigotry or a memorial to the valor of fallen soldiers?” he asked at a ceremony commemo-rating the first shots of the war. “Many of the emotional issues still rage.”Re-enactors observe 150th anniversary of Civil War
AP Photo
John Douglass, retired one-star General and Former Assistant Secretary of the Navy, serves 
as a living historian as re-enactors fire mortars at the Pitt Street Bridge near Fort Sumter.
10, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
INTERNATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LONDON — In life, Pall Arason sought at-
tention. In death, he is getting it: The 95-year-
old Icelander’s pickled penis will be the main attraction in one of his country’s most bizarre museums.
Sigurdur Hjartarson, who runs the Phallo-
logical Museum in the tiny Icelandic fishing town of Husavik, said Arason’s organ will help round out the unusual institution’s ex-tensive collection of phalluses from whales, seals, bears and other mammals.
Several people had pledged their penises 
over the years — including an American, a Briton, and a German — but Arason’s was the 
first to be successfully donated, Hjartarson 
said.
“I have just been waiting for this guy for 15 
years,” he told The Associated Press.
Hjartarson’s museum started in Reykjavik 
but has since moved to Husavik, a small com-munity better known for its whale watching. The Phallological Museum is an important part of the region’s tourist industry , bringing 
in thousands of visitors every summer.
Highlights of the museum’s collection in-
clude a 67-inch sperm whale penis preserved 
in formaldehyde, lampshades made from bull testicles and what the museum described as an “unusually big” penis bone from a Cana-dian walrus.
Hjartarson, 69, said his interest in what he 
calls “phallology” began when, as a youngster in rural Iceland, he was given a whip made from a bull’s penis to help him herd cattle. When he worked at a school near a whaling station, colleagues brought him whale penises as gifts.
“That was how it started. I opened this mu-
seum 15 years ago with 62 specimens,” he said. Now, with the addition of Arason’s organ, he has 276, many suspended in formaldehyde or dried and mounted on the walls.
Photos posted to the museum’s website 
show small army of ghostly , whitish penises stuffed into jars, tall glass cylinders and large aquariums. There are sculptures, molds and other penis-related craft items. Outside, the 
museum has a large tree trunk carved into the 
shape of an erect phallus.
Most items are donations from friends and 
well-wishers, people listed on the museum’s website as “honorary members.”
Arason was described by Hjartarson as a 
former tourism worker who died Jan. 5 in the nearby town of Akureyri. Thorvaldur Ingvars-son, the medical director of Akureyri’s hospi-
tal, didn’t give a cause of death but said the 
specimen was removed from the body under the supervision of a doctor.
The phallus was officially installed in a cer -
emony last week, Hjartarson said, adding that he saw nothing wrong with the idea of having someone donate their penis to be shown off to the public.
“People are always donating some organ 
after they died,” he said. “It’s no more remark-able to donate a penis than it is to donate an organ like a kidney.”
Hjartarson said the donation fit with Ara-
son’s personality.
“He liked to be in the limelight, you know? 
He was a funny guy,” he said. “He was a boaster, a braggart ... he liked to be provoca-tive.”
But the museum director was coy when 
asked about the size of his newest acquisition.
“I can’t tell you that,” Hjartarson said. “You 
will just have to come and see it.”
Iceland penis museum gets first human specimenn HE IS BEING INVESTIGATED 
FOR CORRUPTION.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
SHARM EL-SHEIKH, Egypt — 
Former Egyptian President Hosni 
Mubarak was abruptly hospitalized 
Tuesday for heart problems during 
an investigation over allegations 
of corruption and violence against protesters, reported state TV .
In a sign that his ailment might 
not be very serious, however, Jus-
tice Minister Mohammed el-Guindi 
said the former president was now 
being questioned in the hospital.
The 82-year-old Mubarak was 
deposed Feb. 11 after 18 days of 
popular protests and has been un-der house arrest in the Red Sea re-sort of Sharm el-Sheikh for the last 
two months. 
The public prosecutor an-
nounced Monday he was under 
investigation.
Dozens of demonstrators pick-
eted the hospital, denouncing the president and carrying a sign read-
ing “Here is the butcher.” They 
scuffled briefly with supporters of 
Mubarak amid a massive security 
presence.
El-Guindi said Mubarak was be-
ing investigated over his role in the violence against protesters during the uprising in which more than 
800 people died. The investigation 
into corruption charges would be 
carried out later by the Justice Min-
istry’s anti-corruption department, he said.
An investigation of Mubarak’s 
son, Gamal, is also underway in Sharm el-Sheikh, the minister add-
ed in comments carried by Egypt’s 
state news agency.A security official at the hospital 
said both father and son were ques-tioned in the hospital suite.
Deciding on the site for the in-
terrogation was a dilemma for the authorities who wanted to grant 
the ailing president a degree of pri-
vacy and security.
Mubarak arrived under heavy 
police protection to the main hospi-tal and stepped out of his armored 
Mercedes unaided before being 
taken to the presidential suite in the pyramid-shaped building, ac-cording to doctors and security officials at the hospital who spoke on condition of anonymity because 
they were not authorized to speak 
to the media.
The protest movement that de-
posed Mubarak is now pushing 
for him to be brought to justice for 
what they say are decades of abuse. 
Since Friday, hundreds reoccupied 
parts of Tahrir Square in down-
town Cairo.
The protesters had criticized the 
army for being too close to the old 
regime and not swiftly bringing 
Mubarak to trial.On Tuesday, however, a scuffle 
broke out when some residents 
tried to break up the four-day sit-
in, removing barbed-wire and 
barricades. The army then moved 
in and took control of the square 
and cordoned off the once grassy 
roundabout that had been the cen-
ter of many demonstrations.
Sanaa Seif, a 17-year-old on 
the scene, said she saw the army 
forcibly remove people and the 
state news agency confirmed that 
the military police had detained a 
number of “outlaw thugs” at the square.
Mubarak has a history of minor 
ailments and underwent gallblad-
der surgery in Germany in March 
last year.
He has kept a low profile since 
he was ousted, living on his com-
pound in Sharm el-Sheikh. He was 
banned from traveling and his as-
sets have been frozen. 
Many of his senior aides have 
already either been questioned or 
detained pending investigations.
Egypt’s state TV reported that 
Safwat el-Sherif, a senior aide of Mubarak and one of the most powerful men in his regime, was 
ordered detained for an additional 
15 days pending investigations into his role in attacks on protesters 
during the uprising.
El-Sherif had already been re-
manded into custody for 15 days 
for the corruption probe.
On Sunday, Mubarak defended 
himself in a pre-recorded message 
saying he had not abused his au-
thority, and investigators were 
welcome to check over his assets.
It was his first address to the 
people in the two months since he 
stepped down. Shortly after, the 
prosecutor general issued a sum-
mons for Mubarak to appear for questioning.
Despite series of investigations 
into former top regime officials, relations between the military and 
protesters have soured over the 
last weeks. Protesters say the in-vestigations were slow, and were 
outweighed by rights abuses by the 
new rulers.
Hundreds of protesters remain 
in military detention following a demonstration last month, while others have received swift trials be-
fore military courts.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 11
AP Photo
Egyptian soliders stand guard after they removed barricades protesters used to block Tahrir Square with in 
Cairo. Former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak was abruptly hospitalized Tuesday for heart problems.
Egypt’s Mubarak hospitalized with heart problems
AP Photo
Visitors at the Phallological Museum in Iceland walk around the exhibits of phalluses 
from whales, seals, bears and other mammals, in the tiny fishing town of Husavik. 
n THE OTHER TWO WILL BE 
SENT TO LOS ANGELES AND WASHINGTON, D.C.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CAPE CANAVERAL — On a 
memorable day in space history, 
NASA began its goodbyes to the shuttle program Tuesday, announc-ing the aged spacecraft will retire to 
museums in Cape Canaveral, Los 
Angeles and suburban Washington and sending a test-flight orbiter to New York City.
It was an emotional day — the 
30th anniversary of the first shuttle launch and the 50th anniversary of man’s first journey into space by So-viet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin. Just 
two more shuttle flights remain, 
and the head of NASA choked up as he revealed the new homes for the spacecraft in an event at the Kennedy Space Center.
“For all of them, take good care 
of our vehicles,” NASA Admin-istrator Charles Bolden, a former astronaut, said with a catch in his 
voice. “They served a nation well, 
and we at NASA have a deep and abiding relationship and love affair with them that is hard to put into words.”
The choice of homes for the 
spaceships — sometimes described as the most complex machinery ever devised — was hotly contest-
ed. Twenty-one museums and visi-
tor centers around the country put in bids.
The winners will have to pay 
NASA $28.8 million for the cost of 
preparing and ferrying the shuttles 
to their new homes. Across the country, cheers erupted at the four winning facilities and groans at the locations that lost out.
After it closes out the program, 
shuttle Atlantis will stay in Cape Canaveral at the space center’s visitor complex, just miles from the 
pair of launch pads used to shoot 
the orbiters into space. Space center workers, some of whom are likely to lose jobs when the shuttles quit flying later this summer, gave Bold-en a standing ovation and whooped and hollered with the news.
Shuttle Endeavour, which 
makes its last flight at the end of 
the month, will head to the Califor -
nia Science Center in Los Angeles, 
about 60 miles from the plant where the shuttle was assembled.
Discovery’s new home will 
be the Smithsonian Institution’s branch in northern Virginia near Washington Dulles International Airport. In exchange for the oldest 
shuttle, the Smithsonian is giving 
up Enterprise, a shuttle prototype used for test flights in the 1970s.
There was no celebrating among 
the hundreds of visitors and work-ers watching the announcement on television at the National Museum of the Air Force near Dayton, Ohio, the hometown of the Wright broth-
ers.
The decision “doesn’t recognize 
the contributions and innovations that came from the heartland,” 
complained Rep. Mike Turner, an Ohio Republican.
Houston was bitterly disap-
pointed that Johnson Space Center, home of Mission Control, would only get seats from a shuttle.“There was no other city with 
our history of human space flight or more deserving of a retiring orbiter,” Houston Mayor Annise Parker said.
There were originally four space 
shuttles. Challenger was destroyed during liftoff in 1986, and Endea-vour was built as a replacement. Then Columbia was lost in 2003.
The space shuttles are being re-
tired as part of NASA’s shifting and still-uncertain future for sending astronauts into space.12, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
AP Photo
This image made available by the Kennedy Space Center on Dec. 15 shows an initial concept design for 
a proposed space shuttle exhibit in Cape Canaveral. 
Kennedy Space Center to house one retired shuttleWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds WEDNESDA Y, APRIL 13, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
THE LANDINGS.
3/3 Flats
Move-In Today!
All-Inclusive & ONLY $465
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
ALL-INCLUSIVE LIVING*
3/3: From $444/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.Avail. 8/15$900/mo. call 877-833-2865     4-13-11-10-14BR/4BA Countryside @ Univ Apt furn. 
Asking $380/mo. All brms avail. beg. 8/1. 
Rent inc. cable and wireless internet+util 
package for elec/water. Contact Chris at 941-
726-2204 or raginriv@ufl.edu w/ any ques   
4-14-11-11-1
Furnished 4bedroom4bath condo,W/D/
Dishwasher for 2011-2012 starting Aug16 
1/2mi from UF on bus route, 3800 SW 20th 
Ave between UF and Butler Plaza $300/mo 
++ per student 352-586-6468    4-13-11-10-
1
Room 4 Rent
Clean, Dependable, Female
Ref/Req
Call after 5 352-281-1461   4-14-11-5-1
Take over my Fall 2011 lease at Canopy!
1/1 in a 2/2, $605/month, all inclusive. 12 
month lease. Better rate than you'll get 
signing a new lease! Going to study abroad 
instead, call Marlina, 352-281-1978.   4-14-
5-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
4-20-11-10-1
GRADUATION WEEKEND RENTALS
fully furnished cabins. $86/$81/$76 per nite. 
15 miles from Gainesville.
www.twinlakesfishcamp.com.
Call 352-466-3194
4-15-11-5-1
Walk to UF. 5bd/3ba house.
Free off-street parking, W/D, wireless, pool. Available 7/30/11, yearly lease. No move in fee. 561-427-8383 chelseawitters@ufl.edu    4-14-11-4-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
3bedroom Starting @ $1019
Amazing townhome with everything included! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-2801   4-20-25-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Now Including Internet !
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
4-20-11-70-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
4-20-10-70-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
4-20-11-55-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     5-10-11-28-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/air
Avail. Aug 1, $1375 - 333-9874 or 317-7346
4-20-11-26-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
4-20-26-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
4-20-11-25-2
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!
·         Available NOW and August!
·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-24-25
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, 
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dish-
washer, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. 
No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 
16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   
5-12-11-26-2
WALK2UF.COM
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
4-20-24-2
2BR HOUSE 3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! 
Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $850
352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/Sorority 
Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/
heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty 
of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1335
352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-
ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail 
Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2350 352-665-8166 lv mssg   
5-12-11-25-2
Large 4BR/2BA HOUSES 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, w/
dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plen -
ty of parking! . Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1980 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   4-20-11-21-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    4-20-11-21-2
www.Bellaproperties.net
3/2 with study. Walk to UF, hardwood floors, 
fireplace, 2 car garage, full sevice tour
335-5424
4-20-20-2
16, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
www.BellaProperties.net
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
4-20-20-2.
WALK TO UF
3 Bed 2 Bath House in upscale Golfview 
Estates near Law School & Athletic fields.
$1400 mo. Aug 1. Call (305) 788-4103    
4-20-11-19-2
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
4-20-11-20-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pristine 
Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, hdwd 
flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/
UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-1458    
4-20-11-16-2
1BR/1BA, large screened-in porch, W/D 
hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $535. Sec 
Dep $535. 3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #3 Please 
call 352-371-3473    4-20-11-14-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF & Downtown! 
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street. 
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA  1BLK TO UFCentral H & Air, LaundryOn site. $500/Mo 
1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/MoCentral H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry 
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos4-15-11-11-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
4-20-13-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    4-15-11-10-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net    4-20-11-13-2
FREAKS! Downtown studio/garage apt. 
Window A/C, space heat, off-street park-ing. H2O/sewage incl. On bus lines near Hippodrome. 416 SE 2nd St. $420/mo, 1st, last & sec. Call 352-373-6551    4-18-10-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
CLOSE TO UF - 4BR/2BA HOUSE
914 SW 6th Ave. Cent AC/heat. W/D hk-up. $1690/mo. From 8/16, for 1 year. No pets. 359-1508    4-20-11-11-2MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage. Across from GHFC. 
$1000/mo. Available January. 331-6872   4-19-11-10-2
Close to UF, 2BR/1BA house, W/D, large 
fenced yard. Pets ok. Water incl. Low move-
in. Avail Aug 1st. 618 NW 14th Ave. $895/
mo. Call 561-703-8490    4-20-11-5-2
Very nice 3BR/2BA House, 2.5 miles to UF. 
Beautiful large treed lot. Hardwood floors, 
tile, vaulted ceiling in kitchen. W/D, ref, stove, 
DW. Avail Aug 1st, 2011. $950/mo. Sec dep. 
Call 727-686-1404   4-13-11-5-2
1bed/1bath in 3bed/3bath at the polos. rent 
is $410 incl. utilities, cable and internet. fur-
nished or unfurnished. available May 1st. call 
352 262 7778 or dubroca@ufl.edu   5-10-11-
10-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     
5-12-11-11-2
3BR/1BA house avail August: cent heat A/C, 
hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, 
Florida room, private fenced bkyd. $900/mo. 
352-318-5453   4-20-11-9-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus 
Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun 
Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 
352-871-7801 pfitz100@yahoo.com   5-10-
11-9-2
1700 sq ft 3BR/2BA House
Wood floors, large screened-in back porch,
jacuzzi, W/D, corner lot $1400/mo Call(352) 258-9116 to see. Available Aug 1st.    4-15-11-5-2
NICE 2BR Apartment in Quadplex
Cent H/AC,W/D hkup, DW, 850 sqft 2 blks frm NW 13th st & 39th ave$575/month, Avail ImmediatelyCall 352-327-8287 & lv message    4-15-5-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    8-2-11-30-2
A charming, 3 BR/1.5 BA house. Great 
Neighborhood. Close to UF. W/D. Available May 6 (flexible). 2 people- $800/mo. 3 peo-ple - $900/mo. Call Mark: 352-672-4072    4-15-11-4-2
1/1 Deluxe Top Floor Apartment with W/D in 
unit,Cable, Water, Trash, Sewer Included, Screened in porch,Fireplace,Microwave in-cluded with apartment. Special Rate $664.00 No deposit needed. Please contact 352-388-1218 for more info.    4-15-3-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $495, 2BR $585 352-335-0420    5-10-11-7-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420    5-10-11-7-2
UF 7 blks, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL, HOT 
TUB, 2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park, responsible students or professionals only.  Plasma TV incl. May-Aug $1775/mo; $2175/mo Aug on. Summer only option or yr lease. 352-222-0211   4-19-11-5-2
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
The last issue for the spring 
semester will be on April 20th!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, 
all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your 
own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 
or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-
30-3
$505 Parkside 2 Townhomes, Very close to 
UF (off sorority row), Lease runs May 1- July 
31. Bedroom has own bath & private balcony, 
1/2 bath downstairs, pay for half of elec  Call 
Ali 9416282134 or email booie12@ufl.edu    
4-15-11-10-3
$420/mo Woodlands Apt 1 room in 
3BD/3BA furnished, Available May, June 
& July. Call 352-871-5363 or e-mail:wael.
alyoussof@gmail.com. Price negotiable    
4-13-4-3
SUMMER SUBLEASE! Willing to lease for
only $450 a month, that's 25% off a month.
Washer, dryer, personal bath, gourmet
kitchen. Located in Windsor Hall, girl's
building. parking available for half price!
Contact kmeany333@gmail.com
4-15-11-5-3
Sublease near UF Sorority Row. Beautiful 
new studio, granite counters, slate shower, 
w/d. Partially furnished. Available 5/1 through 
7/30/11. $699/month Call: Al Raymond 
(352)494-1805 or email: raydad1@msn.com    
4-18-11-5-3
$375/mo REDUCED from $475/mo! Ivy 
House large Double Suite. All inclusive! 5 minute walk to UF! Jacuzzi tubs! Great roommate! Available May thru August. Call 386-288-8541 or email msherrod@ufl.edu    4-20-7-3
**379** MAY, JUNE, JULY AT LEXINGTON CROSSING! OWN ROOM & BATHROOM FULLY FURNISHED. 3 BUS ROUTES. UTILITIES INCLUDED. CALL 727.331.3762    4-19-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 727-726-2915    4-19-11-25-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Directbus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-729-1561   4-20-15-4
Beautifully renovated, furnishedcondo,1 mile from UF, $369/MOincludes cable, internet, utilities,pool + fitness room and on bus route, Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871    5-10-11-13-4Walk to UF. 5bd/3ba house. 2 roommates 
needed, male or female. Free off-street park-
ing, W/D, wireless, pool, furnished living 
room and kitchen. $405/mo. Available 7-30, 
yearly lease. 561-427-8383    4-15-11-5-4
2 Roommates needed for large 4/2 house 
near Thornebrook Village. $325 & $275. 
Utilities around $80. 5 min drive to Santa 
Fe & UF. Washer/dryer fenced in backyard 
fireplace. Email strny472@gmail.com    4-19-
5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 17
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
Only for Students ofUF!
Win an Apple iPad 2 right now!
Go to www.giftnitro.com
Win a free Apple iPad2!
4-13-11-5-10KENTE GRADUATION STOLES FOR SALE!  
Celebrate with hand-woven kente stole/sash 
imported from Accra, Ghana.
ONLY 19.99 plus shipping.
Order online – www.afrikandesigns.com; 
email Grace at grace@afrikandesigns.com.    
4-20-11-11-10
Office furniture-desks, filing cabinets, chairs, tables. good condition, used. $10-$50
373-2411; bhoffman_10@hotmail.com
4-15-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-
25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
4-20-11-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   4-20-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
City of Gainesville Parks/RecDept. is now hiring for seasonalrecreation and aquatics positionsCompetitive pay in great workenvironment! Apply online todayat www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      4-20-11-70-13 
CASH PAID FOR JUNK CARS$200 & up. FREE pick-up.
352-771-6191    4-20-11-11-13
18, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-
14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-
11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village 
is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a 
Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full 
time Life Coach positions available in both 
Independent and Assisted Living. Come 
and be a part of our growing team! These 
positions play a support role in planning, or-
ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-
ment program that promotes total health and 
wellness of each resident living here at The 
Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-
ence conducting group programs with strong 
interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-
sion for working with older adults is a must. In 
addition to experience with social programs, individuals with a theology background and/or fitness experience are encouraged to apply. 
please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     
5-17-11-27-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
SCOOTER/MOTORCYCLE MECHANIC
PT/FT jobs available. ExperienceW/ 2 & 4-stroke motors a must!Inquire within or call 336-1271Collin@NS4L.com    4-20-16-14
Computer Programming Internship
Work with local small business toExpand online presence, update &build websites, and network. WebDesign experience required.Collin@NS4L.com for more info.    4-20-16-14
Video person needed by law firm to shoot & 
edit videos for posting on firm website & You Tube. Resumes to:robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.    4-15-11-7-14
OFFICE ASST-F/T. Green conscious, book 
lover, passion for writing/knowledge/ fitness. Computer fluency. Eye for Detail. Interest in MMA a plus. Min. wage to $12/hour.626 NE 1st St, 32601. Email resume topaulsrothstein@gmail.com    4-20-11-10-14
CAREGIVER POSITIONS
For Pre-Med, Pre-OT, Pre-PT and Nursing 
students. Call 352-231-0815 for more info.   4-14-6-14
NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses paid;min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;3yr old / 10 mon; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    4-13-11-5-14FT NANNY NEEDED AUG for 1yr;
2 boys 10&14;$12/hr; ~ 30 hrs/wk;
+ bonus hrs / $$; must be exp/prof/ref/
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    4-13-
11-5-14
PT Dog handler needed for doggie daycare. 
Requires handling groups of rowdy dogs, 
cleaning, and exceptional customer service. 
Experience working with animals preferred. 
Apply in person 3749 SW 42nd Ave., suite 8
(352) 376-9544     4-13-11-4-14
TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS
We are a traditional summer camp in West 
Virginia. We are looking for both male and 
female counselors. Visit www.trcamps.com 
or call 410-833-4080 for more information.  
5-24-11-14-14
Wanted Home Health Aid with a great atti-
tude! Needed for an on going case Please 
call Family Care Givers Today! 352-307-9-
8044   4-14-11-4-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office. Experience 
preferred. Email resume to:snpohani@gmail.com      4-15-11-5-14
Perfect student summer job. Summer C, 
financial planning office. Must have com-
puter, phone, exp. references required. 352-
373-3000. Email resume
total_planning@hotmail.com.    4-13-11-3-
14
PT Retail Associate position for non-profit 
organization's Thrift Shop. Some retail ex-
perience reqd. Must be flexible to work Mon 
- Sat, 20-25 hrs/wk. Refs reqd.  Please email 
resume to  office@gainesvillejrleague.org   
4-15-11-5-14
Seeking experienced PROGRAMMER &
WEB DESIGNER to work on new website.
Must have extensive programming experi-
ence & knowledge in HTML/PHP/CSS/SQL
and other relevant web technologies.
Contact Steven @ 305-607-9808 to apply! 
4-19-11-5-14
Seeking part-time Support Technician to 
upkeep and deploy sites built on ASP.NET, MSSQL, and IIS. Help maintain Active Directory, Windows workstations and serv-ers. Interacts via phone, e-mail, and ticketing system. Email hr@352media.com   4-20-11-6-14
Opus Cafe - Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active
students to work 12 to 30 hours per week
at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting pay is $8.00/hour + tips. 
To apply, go to our website,
www.opus-cafe.com, click on the employ-
ment tab, and follow the directions.
4-20-11-6-14
ATTN SMOKERS!!!!
Need participants for study assessing the
effects of various activities on smoking. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com
5-31-13-14
Group Fitness Instructor wanted - need 
quality instuctor to teach any of the follow -
ing; Zumba, pump, TRX, yoga, Dance and 
spinning. send to resume@baileysgym.com or call 352-373-4439    5-10-11-7-14
Mobile Waiters Needed - Immediate 
Interviews. FT or PT, make your own sched-ule, flexible hrs, avg. $10-$14 per hour. Must have own car, cell phone with texting, be 21+. Call 888-334-9675 ext. 0, email blatendesse@d-d-i.com, or go towww.d-d-i.com   4-15-11-3-14
EASIEST PART TIME JOB IN THE WORLD
Work at your own pace, work your own hours, unlimited income potential. Call 352-875-6451 - Ask for Alan.   5-10-11-7-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
ARC Lifeguard Training
Starts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    4-20-11-12-15
CLEANING SERVICES
The Soapranos
Move out or weekly cleanings. Insured and experienced. Call for rates. 352-301-0448    4-20-11-8-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    8-15-11-31-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spring is in the air and so are cat phero -
mones. We need to hurry and spay as many 
cats as possible before kitten season kicks into high gear! Bring community cats from 
Alachua County in for FREE spay/neuter 
on Sunday, April 17th. Operation Catnip 
wants to spay 3,000 cats in 2011, but we can't do it without you. If you can't make it to the Sunday Spay Day, we can schedule 
you during the week at a partner clinic for 
FREE. Don't wait-- make a reservation now! 
ocgainesville@gmail.com 352.380.0940Drop traps available for loan...4-15-13-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42xAny info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
Sports
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n FLORIDA STATE TOOK THE SEASON SERIES 3-1 
WITH THE VICTORY ON TUESDAY NIGHT.
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
TALLAHASSEE — Florida’s bullpen went wild Tuesday 
night against Florida State — and not in a good way.
UF relievers Greg Larson and Tommy Toledo each gave up 
a run on wild pitches in the seventh inning as No. 11 Florida 
State (24-9) downed No. 4 Florida (26-8) 3-1, taking the season 
series by the same count.
“Some odd stuff happens, especially when we play Florida 
State,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “Some stuff happens 
that doesn’t normally happen.”
After Larson allowed Sherman Johnson and Justin Gonza-
lez to reach on singles, the right-handed reliever threw a wild pitch past catcher Mike Zunino, allowing Johnson to score from second and stretch FSU’s lead to 2-0.
Larson was attempting to intentionally walk Taiwan East-
erling and threw the first pitch of the at-bat before Zunino was 
ready. 
When Larson delivered to the plate, Zunino had his head 
turned, talking to home plate umpire Rickey Armstrong, and 
neither of the two had their protective masks on.
Both Zunino and O’Sullivan argued with Armstrong that 
the play should not have counted because neither man behind the plate was ready. But the arguments were to no avail, and the play stood.
“I’m not quite sure why we threw the ball, but I under -
stand why the confusion was there,” O’Sullivan said. “It’s just an odd play. … The bottom line is Greg probably shouldn’t have thrown the ball.”
Following the pause in the game, O’Sullivan pulled Larson 
for Toledo, who hurled his first pitch past Zunino and into the backstop, allowing Gonzalez to score.
All three of Florida State’s runs came on balls that didn’t 
leave the infield.
The first run came in the fourth inning when a familiar foe 
put the Seminoles on the board.Stuart Tapley, who launched a two-run homer in the teams’ 
previous meeting, singled off starter Alex Panteliodis with runners on first and second and two down in the inning. 
Tapley hit a grounder to shortstop Nolan Fontana, who 
couldn’t gather the sharply hit ball. James Ramsey scored from second base on the play, beating out Fontana’s throw to the plate.
Panteliodis (2-1) said it was frustrating the ball never left 
the infield each time the Seminoles scored.
“[O’Sullivan] probably wasn’t very happy about it,” he 
POLL RESULTS ONLINE INSIDE
n Flip to Page 5 for a story about former Florida 
basketball player Dan Werner’s recent arrest and 
DUI charge in Gainesville. Werner submitted breath tests that were below the legal limit but was spotted driving with his high beams on and no tag light.n Check out and comment on all of our stories, podcasts and 
video shows on alligatorSports.org. Also follow us on Twitter at twitter.com/alligatorSports, “Like” our podcast on Facebook at facebook.com/alligatorpodcast and subscribe to our podcast and video show on iTunes.Previous question:  Who should be UF’s starting quarterback now that spring practice is over?
 Percent (Votes)
Brantley 39% (35)
Murphy 28% (25)
Driskel 28% (25)
Brissett 4% (4)
89 TOTAL VOTESSaj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Florida junior reliver Greg Larson gave up a run on a wild pitch in the seventh inning, and fellow reliver Tommy Toledo did the same as the No. 4 Gators fell 3-1 to the No. 11 Seminoles on Tuesday night in Tallahassee.
Bullpen’s late wild pitches cost Florida vs. FSU
Disappointment is defined as the 
feeling of sadness or displeasure caused by the non-fulfillment of 
one’s hopes or expectations.
If that is what this word really means, 
how could any fan be disappointed by what they saw Saturday at the Orange 
and Blue Debut? In order to feel this 
horrible emotion, Florida actually has to perform at a level below your expecta-tions.
Really, the only thing you should be 
disappointed about is the fact that Tim Tebow’s newly unveiled bronze statue doesn’t feature his patented stiff arm. Now that’s fail-
ing to meet expec-tations.
But if you fore-
saw something bet-ter than Saturday’s subpar performance 
on the field, I must 
ask, do you also predict world peace by the end of 2011?
Optimism does have its limits.
It would be absurd to expect anything No reason for optimism in 2011UF BASKETBALL
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
Suddenly, Billy Donovan finds 
himself as, in his words, “the only one 
standing.”
Less than two weeks after associate 
head coach Larry Shyatt left to become Wyoming’s head coach, Donovan an-nounced Tuesday that assistant coaches Richard Pitino and Rob Lanier would be leaving the program for similar po-sitions at Louisville and Texas, respec-tively.
But two of those vacancies have al-
ready been filled, as John Pelphrey and 
Norm Roberts agreed to step into assis -
tant roles at UF. In an effort to maintain continuity on 
a completely new staff, Donovan chose 
to bring back Pelphrey, who was an as-sistant under Donovan at Florida from 
1996-2002. 
Pelphrey’s expe-
rience in the South-eastern Conference and recruiting ties 
throughout the region 
will be valuable as-
sets, as he served as the head coach at Ar -
kansas from 2007 until 
he was fired in March. 
“John knows the league, and he 
knows what I’m going to be looking for and wanting in recruiting,” Donovan Gators hire two assistantsSEE BASEBALL, PAGE 21
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org
Twitter: @Chiang_Reaction
Pelphrey
SEE ANTHONY, PAGE 24
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 23n UF HAS SIX PAIRINGS LISTED IN 
THE ITA DOUBLES RANKINGS.
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
As Roland Thornqvist prepares his team 
for its last regular-season match, he feels 
Florida has finally hit its stride.
Despite spending the entire season within 
the top two spots of the ITA rankings, Thorn-qvist has used an ever-changing doubles lineup to keep his players fresh.
“It’s not by design, really,” Thornqvist 
said. “But if you look at the 10 years that [assistant coach] Dave [Balogh] and I have 
been here, every year we have had doubles 
changes in the middle of the year for various reasons.”
Thornqvist’s doubles lineup has varied 
so much over the course of the spring season that the Gators now have six doubles pair -
ings listed in the ITA doubles rankings — de-spite the fact that only three teams can take the court during a dual match.
Regardless of how many shakeups there 
have been in doubles throughout the season, there has been one important constant: win-
ning.
The Gators (21-1, 10-0 SEC) overtook 
Stanford for the No. 1 spot in the polls Tues-day behind two huge wins over then-No. 6 
Georgia and then-No. 14 Tennessee. 
And Thornqvist has shown he won’t hesi-tate to break up any partners, even the pair -
ing of Allie Will and Sofie Oyen that spent the first half of the year ranked No. 1.
“Sometimes a doubles team sort of runs 
its course,” Thornqvist said. “They stop im-proving or communicating well, so you sort 
of have to reinvigorate it a little, and the 
quickest way to do that is to change partners. This year, we changed because of [Court 3] doubles, I felt like we needed to be better there, and right now I’m very optimistic.”
Over the weekend, the No. 8 pair of Will 
and freshman Alex Cercone played on Court 1, with the new duo of Oyen and Lauren Em-bree dominating two quality teams on Court 
2.
The Court 3 pair that caught Thornqvist’s 
eye featured junior leader Joanna Mather and freshman Olivia Janowicz.
Mather said Florida’s doubles teams 
against Georgia and Tennessee were the strongest it had put out all season.
“With Joanna, I feel very comfortable,” 
Janowicz said. “We both hit the ball pretty hard and flat, and I feel like we can do a lot 
of damage that way.”
With the postseason tournaments loom-
ing, the Gators know there’s a good chance they might come across Stanford again down the road.
The two teams played in the NCAA fi-
nal last year, with the Cardinal coming out on top, and they have once again separated 
themselves from the rest of the country this 
season. 
The undefeated Cardinal are the only team 
to beat the Gators this season, holding the top position in the polls for eight weeks while UF has held it five. What’s even more intriguing 
is that Florida has only lost the doubles point 
once this season — to Stanford.
If Florida wants to step out of Stanford’s 
shadow with a deep postseason run, it will need every ounce of success its doubles line-up can muster.By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
Armed with the possible return 
of ace Stephanie Brombacher and 
a more aggressive approach on the 
base paths, Florida is hoping to 
avoid repeating last year’s disap-
pointing midweek performance 
In a rare Tuesday afternoon 
matchup last season, Florida Inter -national came to Gainesville and 
pounded UF’s pitching staff for 11 
hits en route to an 8-3 win. 
UF later redeemed itself with a 
13-3 victory over FIU in the NCAA 
Regionals. But tonight’s showdown at 6 between the No. 10 Gators (33-7, 
10-6 Southeastern Conference) and 
the Golden Panthers (23-20, 9-6 Sun Belt) could be more difficult as FIU features a reliable rotation. 
“They came in here last year and beat us pretty good,” UF coach Tim Walton said. “We’re going to have to 
give our bats a chance again like we 
did this weekend.” 
For a powerful, and recently 
more diverse, Florida lineup, the matchup against FIU’s three-deep 
rotation will be tough. 
Ashley McClain, Jenn Gniadek 
and Mariah Dawson make up a for -
midable trio whose numbers don’t 
reflect their level of success.With 72 home runs, Florida has 
relied on the long ball for most of the 
season, but the team has improved 
at manufacturing runs. 
In last weekend’s three-game se-
ries against Arkansas, UF hit three sacrifice flies and stole seven bases, 
including five in Sunday’s 8-0 win
“When you get a pitcher who’s 
going to throw a changeup in any 
count, if you get it, it’s going to be a pretty easy stolen base,” Walton said after Sunday’s win. “We were able to do that and exploit the changeup.” 
Having more balance on offense 
was an area of much greater concern during the Gators’ six-game losing skid. 
“That’s something we work on 
day in and day out at practice,” left fielder Kelsey Bruder said. “To be able to read the ball in the dirt, an-ticipate it and go is huge because the difference between first and second 
is a run. Anytime we’re able to do 
that, it creates momentum for us, and we’ll keep going with it.” 
One of the biggest keys to the of-
fense’s resurgence has been the re-turn of catcher Tiffany DeFelice. 
The senior backstop missed 17 
games due to a left hand injury but 
has helped turn over the lineup hit-
ting out of the sixth spot. 
In her five games since coming 
back, DeFelice has five hits in 13 at-bats and two walks. 
But one piece is still missing: 
Brombacher, DeFelice’s longtime 
battery mate. 
Brombacher’s status has been up 
in the air the for more than a month as she is recovering from a bicep 
injury , but she threw almost every 
day last week. Brombacher has not 
pitched in a game since March 12 against Ball State.
While Walton doesn’t want to 
immediately throw Brombacher 
back in the fire, her return would 
reduce freshman Hannah Rogers’ workload and boost the team’s con-fidence. 
“Stephanie might have a chance 
to go. We’re going see how she 
feels,” he said. “I’d like to see her in 
a one-inning game that doesn’t have a lot of pressure on her just to get it loose.”20, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
Florida senior pitcher Stephanie Brombacher threw almost every day last week and could return to the circle today as the Gators host the 
Florida International Golden Panthers tonight at 6 in Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Florida hopes to see Brombacher return vs. FIU
Maria Linares / Alligator
Florida junior Joanna Mather (left) and freshman Olivia Janowicz played on Court 3 this 
weekend, impressing coach Roland Thornqvist with an 8-6 win against Tennessee.
UF SOFTBALL
Doubles pairs often changed, but result stays the sameBy ALLISON BANKO 
Alligator Writer 
 
As the team is sitting on the 
mats, anxiously waiting for its last 
practice at the O’Connell Center to begin, Mackenzie Caquatto play-
fully tackles teammate Marissa King.
The freshman is giggling, light-
ing up the Ted Crom Gymnastics Studio with more energy than should fit into her petite, 5-foot-
nothing frame. 
Caquatto, or “Macko” as her 
teammates call her, brings an un-
matched lightness to the team, but 
her performances are anything but 
that. 
This weekend at the NCAA Na-
tional Championships in Cleveland, she will grace every single event, 
joining fellow freshman Alaina 
Johnson and sophomore Ashanée 
Dickerson in the all-around. 
The Naperville, Ill., native made 
an impressive all-around debut earlier this season against Alabama, 
posting the highest total ever for a Gator making her premiere at the 
position with a 39.575. 
But, after rolling her ankle in 
a routine practice just before the 
Southeastern Conference Champi-onships, Caquatto has yet to com-
pete as an all-arounder in the post-season.
The freshman is a force on beam, 
an event that has proven especially difficult for the Gators this season. 
She posted a 9.975 in the event dur -
ing a regular-season competition against West Virginia, matching the nation’s highest score. 
Caquatto has slowly added 
more events to her repertoire as her ankle healed, performing only 
on bars at the SEC Championships before re-adding beam at regionals, 
posting a solid 9.850.  Florida coach Rhonda Faehn 
said Caquatto’s energy makes a big difference for her team, no matter which routines she performs. 
“When she doesn’t compete, it’s 
very obvious that she’s missed,” Faehn said. “She defuses any situa-tion. She calms people down.”
Faehn said she was disappoint-
ed in the team’s lack of energy during the NCAA North Central 
Regional competition on April 2, but King said it has been difficult 
to find that pep as the season nears its end. 
“Season’s so long,” King said. 
“Do you really expect everyone to be able to be on that high of an 
adrenaline [rush] every meet?
“It gets tiring, and your bodies 
don’t function, don’t produce en-
dorphins that they used to at the 
beginning of season.” 
But Faehn was not only disap-
pointed in the team’s energy at re-
gionals, as she said she was upset with the lack of leadership as well. 
Caquatto said the team is full of 
leaders, and any gymnast can step 
up again at any moment.
“Everyone has a different role, a 
different part they play on the team 
as a leader,” Caquatto said. “Some people are quiet leaders, and some 
people are up-in-your-face lead-ers.” 
When asked what type of leader 
she was, Caquatto chuckled, ad-mitting that she was an “in-your-
face” type. 
“I’m a loud person,” she said. 
“I’m the one who can make ev-
eryone laugh when they’re taking things a little bit too seriously or 
they just need a little break. I’m 
kind of the goofball.” 
As the season has progressed, 
the self-described “cheering” Gator said her support now comes more 
from the heart.
“We understand each other 
more,” Caquatto said. “When I first got here, I didn’t know everyone as 
well. Of course everyone was still 
cheering inside the gym, but now, 
there’s more feelings behind it. You 
mean it more.”WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 21
Matt Tripp / Alligator Writer
Florida freshman gymnast Mackenzie Caquatto has slowly worked her way back into the all-around 
competition after rolling her ankle prior to the Southeastern Conference Championships.
FSU starter Scantling allows three hits, strikes out seven in victory
said. “But stuff happens, and it didn’t fall our way tonight.” 
While UF’s bullpen surrendered two costly plays, FSU 
didn’t need to empty its pen to silence the Gators’ bats this 
time around.
The Seminoles got seven shutout innings from starter 
Hunter Scantling (2-0). It was the deepest an FSU starter has 
gone into the game against UF this season.Scantling allowed only three hits and had seven strikeouts. 
Much like the Seminoles’ pitchers have done in previous matchups, the righty kept the Gators’ hitters off balance with an array of 
off-speed pitches and breaking balls, as Flor -
ida’s hitters chased pitches out of the zone 
throughout the night.
Florida’s only offense came in the ninth, 
when Preston Tucker led off with a double and Brian Johnson picked up an RBI two batters later.
“In the grand scheme of things, when you score one run 
and you don’t score until the ninth and you get (six) hits, you’re not going to win many of those games,” O’Sullivan 
said.EtC.: Outfielder Bryson Smith, who has been suspended since 
a March 13 arrest for driving under the influence, was in uni-form Tuesday but did not play. … Florida is 6-6 after a 20-2 start.BASEBALL , from page 19
BaseballUF GYMNASTICS
Cheerful Caquatto brings spirit to NCAA-bound Gators22, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
 
With the brief spring practice season and 
the annual intrasquad scrimmage in the 
rear-view mirror, the Gators will now head their separate ways this summer.
As Florida’s coaches hit the recruiting 
trail and begin preparing for the season, they are limited by NCAA rules to little con-tact with their squad. The players, mean-
while, will move into offseason strength 
and conditioning and run their own seven-on-seven drills.
“This is a critical time for us,” UF coach 
Will Muschamp said after Saturday’s Or -
ange and Blue Debut. “The leadership needs to take over. I challenged some guys in the locker room. It’s time for them to step up.”
Looking to make up for a poor finish signing this year’s recruiting class in Febru-
ary, Florida’s coaches will also have to step 
up. 
Mike Farrell, the national college foot-
ball recruiting analyst for Rivals.com, said the transition from Urban Meyer to Mus-
champ made it difficult to secure a premier 
class — something UF is looking to bring in next year.
“It’s just sort of a reloading situation at 
Florida,” Farrell said. “They were behind the 8-ball a little bit, so this year’s really im-portant for them. They need to have a top-five recruiting class to get all the fans back on board, recruiting-wise.”
It’s worth remembering, Farrell said, 
that any coaching change will cause a slight dip in recruiting due  simply to the lack of continuity. On top of that, Muschamp’s late arrival — and the time it took him to solidify his coaching staff — forced him to squeeze the year-round recruiting process into a few months of work.
“This is an important year because 
they’re starting fresh,” Farrell said. “They’re starting on equal terms, pretty much, with 
everyone else for 2012. I think it’s going to 
be a barometer for the fans to see … can this guy recruit at the same level Urban Meyer did after his initial trial by fire when he was hired.”
The Gators have already received ver -
bal commitments from nine 2012 recruits, including two running backs, Mike Davis and Matt Jones, and three defensive tackles in JaFar Mann, Dante Phillips and Quinteze 
Williams. Along with linebacker, Farrell 
said, Muschamp and Co. will place a lot of emphasis on players in the trenches.And the verdict at this point, as UF 
enters a critical stretch 10 months before 2012’s National Signing Day?
“So far, so good,” Farrell said.With their coaches busy on the recruit-
ing trail and restricted from working with 
them, the Gators will be largely responsible 
for their own development during the sum-mer. 
Muschamp and his assistants had their 
first chance to install their system and teach 
as much as possible, but now, the team’s 
veterans will have to emerge within their position groups and take the younger play-ers under their wings. 
One specific case Muschamp singled out 
Saturday was that of A.C. Leonard. 
The freshman tight end, an early enroll-
ee out of Jacksonville University Christian School, caught a game-high three passes for 18 yards and showed signs of promise at a position offensive coordinator Charlie Weis has utilized extensively in the past. 
Muschamp said Leonard, in his first se-
mester at UF, was OK during the opening 
weeks of the offseason training program, 
but he came into his own in the final part of 
spring practice under the tutelage of Weis 
and tight ends coach Derek Lewis.
The most “veteran” player at the tight 
end position, however, is Jordan Reed — a redshirt sophomore with six career recep-tions. But Muschamp’s charge extended beyond the team’s upperclassmen, as the Gators carry only eight scholarship seniors.
“They don’t need to be a senior; we 
don’t have many seniors,” Muschamp said. 
“They need to understand it’s their football 
team; it’s not mine. We will only be as good as we are next year with the work ethic that takes place.”
said. 
Although Donovan and Roberts 
have never worked together, they 
do share a level of familiarity.
The two were born in New 
York less than two months apart, and Roberts was recommended to Donovan by many people as an elite recruiter with strong charac-ter. That helped make Roberts an easy choice for Donovan.
Roberts, who coached at St. 
John’s from 2004-2010, also served 
on Kansas coach Bill Self’s staff at 
four schools: Oral Roberts, Tulsa, Illinois and Kansas.
“He has an impeccable reputa-
tion as a great guy,” Donovan said. “I think he’ll be great for our pro-gram.”
Donovan spoke just as highly 
of the coaches leaving his staff, 
as Pitino and Lanier received op-
portunities that will advance their careers and put them in better per -
sonal situations.
“If you’re successful, and you 
have a lot of success, that’s what really opens up the doors of op-portunity,” Donovan said. “When you go after good people, and 
you have good people, sometimes 
those things are going to happen, and you don’t have control over it.”
Pitino, who is expecting the 
birth of his first child within the next week, will be returning to Louisville to serve as an assistant to his father, Rick. 
Donovan played under the el-
der Pitino at Providence and in the NBA with the Knicks before joining him as an assistant at Kentucky. “I’ve known (Richard) since he 
was 4 years old,” Donovan said. “To get an opportunity to work with him like that meant a lot to me, but I’m also excited for him that he’s going to be reunited with his family and reunited with his dad.”
Donovan tabbed the 28-year-
old Richard as the potential coach-in-waiting at Louisville and put the same tag on Lanier at Texas. 
Donovan said Lanier’s move 
was strongly motivated by the strong ties he and his wife devel-oped to the Austin area when he served as an assistant at Texas from 1999-2001. 
With Lanier, Pitino and Shyatt 
all departing, one vacancy still re-mains on the Florida staff.
Donovan did not name any 
specific candidates for the final spot but said he has been looking at plenty of names, and the interest in joining UF’s coaching staff has been “overwhelming.”
As for those already on staff, 
Donovan said Pelphrey and Rob-erts would waste little time devel-oping relationships with current and future Gators. 
“The recruiting period starts 
Friday, so those guys will be on the road,” Donovan said. “We’ll get right back at it.”
DONOVAN POSTPONING DECISION: 
Donovan said Tuesday his decision 
on the futures of Erik Murphy and Cody Larson, who are suspended from the team after being arrested Sunday, will have to wait until he gathers more information. 
At this point, Donovan said, he 
knows nothing other than what has been reported by the media. 
“I really believe at the end of 
this process the truth is going to come out,” Donovan said. “From that truth, I’ll have a chance to re-act.”WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 23
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Will Muschamp will hit the recruiting trail this summer, leaving the play -
ers responsible for their own seven-on-seven drills and offseason conditioning.
UF focused on recruiting, leadership entering summer
Matt Tripp/ Alligator Staff
Florida assistant coach John Pelphrey returns to UF after serving as Arkansas’s head coach. Pelphrey 
and Norm Roberts will take two of the spots vacated by Larry Shyatt, Richard Pitino and Rob Lanier.
Pitino to join father at Louisville while Lanier returns to Texas
HOOPS , from page 19Muschamp wants veterans to help guide young players24, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011
more than what the Gators displayed in 
their spring scrimmage. This is basically the same team that lost five games last 
season, including a 31-7 beatdown at the 
hands of Florida State.
John Brantley is back at quarterback, 
UF’s wide receivers haven’t changed, and 
the offensive and defensive lines have 
grown younger.
The glaring difference is that this year’s 
squad doesn’t have All-American Mike Pouncey calling the shots on the offensive 
line or Ahmad Black saving big play after 
big play on the defensive side of the ball. 
So, that would actually make this year’s 
version of the Gators even worse than the dismal team everybody saw in 2010. And that’s exactly what fans witnessed Satur -
day.
Don’t believe my assessment on this 
team? Let’s ask coach Will Muschamp.
What do you think of your group of 
wide receivers, Will?
“We have to continue to develop more 
depth at that position and more reliable guys,” he said.
I dare you to name a wide receiver on 
this season’s team that could have even 
cracked the rotation when the Gators were 
winning national championships under Urban Meyer.
But this is Florida — playmakers must 
be at a premium, right?
“We need that list to grow as far as guys we know we can count on and rely on in the fall,” Muschamp said.
Running backs Chris Rainey and Jeff 
Demps are the only ones I see.
As for the offensive line, UF’s first-year 
coach characterized it as “thin to begin with” after the Orange and Blue Debut.
Muschamp is probably right. Jonotthan 
Harrison, who made the move from guard this spring, is expected to be the team’s starting center next season. It’s going to be hard for him to step right in and replace 
the Pouncey twins.
None of this sounds too encouraging. 
But Florida fans have to get used to it. 
Last season wasn’t an aberration; it was a reality that will continue for the next few 
years.I keep hearing that nine wins is the 
benchmark for this team. If the Gators find 
a way to pull that one off, I expect to see 
students climbing up the light poles on 
University.
The bottom line is that things aren’t get-
ting better anytime soon, and as meaning-less as scrimmages can be, this one should 
have at least tempered expectations.
The feeling that should have washed 
over you Saturday as you walked out of 
The Swamp would be characterized as 
carrying an accepting and unresisting at-
titude. 
That’s called resignation.This is what you are going to have to 
deal with in the fall. You might as well em-
brace it.ANTHONY , from page 19