VOLUME 106 ISSUE 67 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Student competes on ‘The Price is Right’
He did not win the Chevrolet Sonic 2LS, pg 3.  
UF-FSU game sets season record for arrests, ejections
There were 11 arrests and 156 ejections, pg 5. Coach Billy 
Donovan is in 
search of his 
400th career 
win tonight 
against Stetson. 
See story, page 13. 
Snapshot: Holiday trafﬁ  c
An Alligator reporter descibes her six-hour 
journey back from Thanksgiving break, pg. 8. 
74/47
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 13FLORIDA STATE 21 FLORIDA 7
‘WE’RE A SOFT FOOTBALL TEAM’
  GREG LUCA 
 Alligator Staff Writer
 Saturday was supposed to be the day the Gators turned 
it all around. 
  After three months of strife left Florida at a disappoint-
ing 6-5, a matchup with FSU provided an opportunity for 
redemption. 
  Instead, the Gators (6-6, 3-5 Southeastern Conference) 
succumbed to the same problems that have plagued them throughout 2011, falling 21-7 to the Seminoles (8-4, 5-3 At-
lantic Coast Conference) in The Swamp. 
  “I’m just extremely disappointed again (Saturday) and 
in the season overall,” coach Will Muschamp said. “We’re 
a soft football team. That’s the bottom line.”
  Playbooks that Muschamp distributed before the sea-
son listed three goals on the cover: “Lead the Nation In: 
Effort, Toughness, Turnover Margin.”
  With four interceptions and only one takeaway Satur-
day , the Gators turnover margin sits at minus-11, among 
the worst in the country . 
  “I told our guys we’re not a physically tough team and 
we’re not a mentally tough team,” Muschamp said. “I’ve 
been called a lot of things in my life, but soft (is) not one of them. And we are.”
  In part, these struggles are due to depth, as the physical 
grind of a 12-game season takes a toll on offensive and de-fensive line rotations that only go seven deep, even when fully healthy . 
  Another factor is youth. Florida had only 11 scholar-
ship seniors to honor on Saturday . 
  Also crippling the Gators is an inability to run the ball. Same old mistakes 
doom Gators in 
season-ending loss
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 15  A  six-loss season of frustration, of trying to ﬁ  t 
square pegs into round roles, ﬁ  nally came to a 
head Saturday for Florida and ﬁ  rst-year coach 
Will Muschamp. 
  After losing to rival Florida State at home for 
the ﬁ  rst time since 2003, Muschamp used the post-
game press conference to air his angst with the way the 
Gators have played in 2011. 
  He reminded his team 
that they are soft: “That’s 
not the ﬁ  rst time they’ve 
heard it. It’s not the ﬁ  rst time 
they’ve heard it all season, I 
can tell you that. I always say self evaluation’s hard. It 
starts with me and it falls on my shoulders and I’m 
the one who’s responsible, but at the end of the day , 
you are what you are.”
  He talked about the team’s inability to run the 
football: “When you become a one-dimensional team, you’re a lateral running team and you can’t run 
the ball inside and you can’t run the ball vertically at 
people, you’re going to struggle” 
  Or control the line of scrimmage: “We’re not good 
enough up front right now, quite frankly. Just not.”
  When a reporter asked about falling victim to the 
same errors again and again, Muschamp asked if he 
wanted to play on Florida’s offensive line.  
  “We’re doing all we can do. Doing all we can do 
with what we’ve got right now,” he said. “We’ve got 
to ﬁ  nd some better answers. … We’re trying. You  Muschamp lets 
off steam from 
trying ﬁ  rst year
SEE MATT, PAGE 15
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmatts
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Will Muschamp said his team is “soft” after losing 21-7 
to rival Florida State on Saturday. The loss drops the Gators to 6-6.
ACTIVISM
  SAMANTHA SHAVELL
 Alligator Contributing Writer
   The Gator Student Alliance is being formed 
to combat one issue all students face: tuition 
hikes.   
  The Gator Student Alliance formed after 
87 percent of students who voted in the fall 
Student Government elections called to repeal 
the current tuition increases, said Matias Ka-plan, a 19-year-old microbiology sophomore.
  The group hopes to combat the yearly 
15-percent tuition hikes by Florida state legis-lature and UF administration, he said.  The alliance is a coalition of large student 
groups on campus and will formally intro-duce itself at a press conference at noon on Turlington Plaza. 
  It consists of more than 22 student organi-
zations, including Students for a Democratic 
Society, Graduate Assistants United and Stu-
dents for Justice in Palestine,  group organizer and anthropology junior Robbey Hayes said. 
  Each group is represented by a delegate 
who is a liaison between the Gator Student Alliance and his or her organization. All dele-gates will formally announce their association with the alliance at the news conference, said Kaplan,  who is the delegate for Students for a Democratic Society.
  The news conference will kick-start the 
Gator Student Alliance’s week of action, dur-ing which the alliance will educate students about the cause and distribute ﬂ  iers and post-
ers, Kaplan said. 
  This week of action will take place along-
side a statewide “Stop Tuition Hikes” week. 
Other universities, including the University of South Florida, Florida Atlantic University, the University of Central Florida and Florida State University, are organizing demonstra-tions, too.   The alliance will host a banner-making 
event Tuesday in which students will be able to express their opinions, and it will host a dis-cussion about tuition hikes on Wednesday. 
  The organization is also hosting a rally on 
Thursday that coincides with a board of trust-
ees meeting, Hayes said. 
The rally will start on Turlington Plaza and 
end in Emerson Hall. All event times and lo-
cations will be announced at the news confer-ence. 
“It’s an amazing showing of expression of 
the tuition-hikes issue,” Hayes said.  Student groups form alliance against tuition hikesNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 67 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Shayna Posses, Marissa Prieto,   
  Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Toastmasters meeting
Tuesday, 5:45 p.m.
Entomology-Nematology Building, Room 1031The Talking Gators
Toastmasters Club is meet-
ing for its monthly potluck. It is OK to bring Thanksgiving leftovers. All are welcome to meet members and learn about Toastmasters, which provides a positive atmo-sphere to learn and practice public speaking and leader -
ship skills. For details, go to http://talkinggators.freeto -
asthost.biz or call 352-870-2267. Talking Gators also is on Facebook.
Impact Autism General Meeting  
Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.
 HPNP Building, Room G301  
Join the group for the fi-nal general meeting of the year. It is not too late to join. Come and see how to get in-volved next semester. Visit 
the Facebook group “Impact 
Autism @ UF” for more infor -
mation. 
Inspi(RED) Soccer Charity 
TournamentSaturday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.  
Maguire FieldThe ONE campaign at UF and Kappa Delta sorority will co-host a 6v6 charity soccer tour -
nament at Maguire Field. All proceeds will go to Grassroot Soccer, an organization which harnesses the global popular -
ity of soccer to help prevent 
the spread of AIDS world-pers still came out to local stores 
in droves on Black Friday.
At the Target on Archer 
Road, about 3,000 people waited outside for the store to open at midnight, store team leader Bri-an Jablonski said.
He said it took about an hour 
and 25 minutes to get customers through the door. DVDs, cam-eras and video game systems were the most popular items, Jablonski said. 
“All in all, it was a great day,” 
he said.
Herbert Williams, a secu-
rity guard at Best Buy, said the 
Gainesville store expected to see 
10,000 people and about $5 mil-lion in sales on Friday. 
Williams said the store usu-
ally sees about 2,000 customers a day.
Best Buy employees were un-
available Sunday afternoon for a follow-up comment on total 
turnout.
— EMILY MORROW and                
BRETT LE BLANCwide. Teams can register at 
http://www.grassrootsoc-cer.org/inspired-soccer/tournament-calendar/ Registration costs $4 per player. Free agents are welcome to sign up. More information about the 
tournament is available on 
the registration site. There will be prizes for the best teams.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event 
before 5 p.m. Please model 
your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’sHappening” submissionsmay not appear in the pa-per. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
LOCaL
Black Friday turnout high at 
some Gainesville stores
Though many students 
were out of town for the holi-
day weekend, bargain shop-RAIN
74/47PARTLY
CLOUDY
65/43SUNNY
67/41SUNNY
68/42SUNNY
70/42FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Nov. 27, 1967: The Florida State University stu-
dent newspaper, Florida Flambeau, publishes a fake 
edition of the Alligator that is distributed at the UF vs. FSU game. The fake edition had an Alligator mast-head and headlined stories about an investigation into Gatorade and the FSU football team’s food poi-soning. The Alligator published a fake edition of the FSU newspaper in Tallahassee earlier in the week.
Nov. 29, 1973: The Student Senate votes to allocate 
$20,000 toward the reopening of Lake Wauburg as a recreational resource for students.
Nov. 29, 1988: UF president Marshall Criser will 
decide if the school will install condom machines on campus. The UF task force for AIDS recommends the installation of the machines, which would be placed in campus bathrooms.
Nov. 28, 1994: Low minority recruitment wor -
ries UF officials. Only 5.7 percent of the UF Student Body is African-American, the same percentage as a decade before.
Nov. 26, 2004: More than $7,000 worth of edit-
ing equipment is stolen from the College of Journal-ism and Communications Documentary Institute in Weimer Hall. Missing equipment includes a comput-er tower, flat-screen monitor and video-editing deck, according to Cindy Hall, the Documentary Institute associate director. There are no signs of forced entry , according to police.
— MINA RADMANsustainability
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Contributing Writer
V olunteers sorted through about 
3,000 pounds of recyclable materials 
during the recent UF vs. Furman Uni-versity football game on Nov. 19 as part of a competition between college 
sustainability programs.
The Green Team Network, a group 
affiliated with UF’s Office of Sustain-ability, participated in the Environ-
mental Protection Agency’s Game Day Challenge. The competition aims to re-
duce waste and promote recycling on 
football gamedays.
The game’s crowd produced 1,740 
pounds of bottles and cans and 1,200 pounds of corrugated cardboard in ad-dition to 15,300 pounds of trash, said Stephanie Sims, implementation coor -dinator for the Office of Sustainability.
Green Team student coordinator 
Rebecca Atkins, a wildlife ecology and 
conservation sophomore, has never 
compared UF’s Green Team to other colleges before.
”It would be wonderful for UF to 
be recognized as a campus dedicated to sustainability,” Atkins, 19, said in an email.UF competes in gameday recycling challenge
� HE DID NOT WIN THE CHEVROLET SONIC 2LS.
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Brian Curry said he started watching “The Price is Right” 
when he was about 3 years old. He had always looked for -
ward to the day when he would get to “come on down.”
In an episode that aired last Wednesday, the 28-year-old 
UF MBA student finally got his chance. 
Curry was in California attending an October career fair 
in Anaheim when he said he decided to spend a day in Los 
Angeles to try to get on the show. It would be his second attempt in two years.
He picked a hotel close to the CBS studio and woke up 
just before 4 a.m. so he could get a spot in line. After waiting outside for four hours, he was let into the studio, where he waited for another four hours while everyone who would be in the audience filled out personal information and did 
15-to 30-second interviews with the show’s producer to se-
lect who would be featured on the show.
Curry was the sixth contestant called down to play and 
got a chance to go onstage after three attempts at the open-
ing round. He guessed the retail value of two PlayStation Portables and eight video games would be $601–the closest 
estimate to the actual value of $610–and won the package and a chance onstage. 
Once onstage, Curry played the “Money Game” in an 
attempt to win a Chevrolet Sonic 2LS, but he lost. He was given the third number in the five-digit price and had to guess the first two and last two numbers correctly. The cor -
rect price of the car was $17,604.
Curry’s appearance on the game show ended with him 
spinning the wheel in an attempt to get an amount equal to or less than $1. His first spin landed on 60 cents and his second spin landed on 90 cents, putting him over the limit.
Under CBS regulations, game-show contestants cannot 
appear on any other network game show for the next 10 years—the biggest “bummer” for Curry, even more so than losing out on the car, he said. 
“This was something that I’ve looked forward to longer 
than anything in my life, and now it’s done. I did it,” he said. “I remember standing out in West Hollywood on the street with all my paperwork thinking, ‘Well, what next?’”
He said he is still waiting to get his prize in the mail. 
Curry said he was told the PSP manufacturers couldn’t provide the package he won, so he would be getting the cash value instead.Student competes on ‘The Price is Right’4, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
Courtesy to the Alligator
Members of the UF Mock Trial Team pose for a photo. The team recently participated in 
competitions at the University of Georgia, Florida State University and UF.
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
A campaign to remove Gov. 
Rick Scott’s signature from Flori-
da university diplomas is still go-
ing strong.
The online petition, started by 
UF alumnus Eric Sanders on Nov. 8, now sports more than 400 sig-natures.
Slow to catch on in its first 
week, the petition is starting to attract the attention of media outlets around the state, includ-ing the St. Petersburg Times’ education blog and StateImpact 
Florida, a reporting project of Na-tional Public Ra-
dio.
The attention 
from the press, as well as the petition’s grow-ing support on Facebook, might 
explain the jump of 100 signa-tures in less than a week.
Karen Kamener was the 407th 
person to sign the petition on Si-gnOn.org, a site run by MoveOn.org. 
In the comment accompanying 
her signature, she wrote that she homeschooled her two younger 
children after seeing the “nega-tive effects” of Florida’s educa-
tion system on her oldest child. 
“It is a criminal act to lessen 
[Florida schools’] quality any further, and it is really sad to see what this state has become under the current governor who be-haves like a corporate criminal,” 
she wrote on Nov. 25.
Petition against Scott-signed diplomas gaining steamASHLEY HEMMY
Alligator Contributing Writer
John Cassel takes the stand. 
The court case concerns a DUI, a felony 
charge that could ruin the life of the defendant. 
And this 18-year-old is a key witness.
Except Cassel isn’t himself right now.
He is acting as a middle-aged bartender 
who makes as many corny jokes as he does rum-and-cokes.
And Cassel isn’t an actor in some law TV 
show where the famous “dun dun!” plays when a scene cuts out.
This is the UF Mock Trial Team, and Cassel, 
a mathematics freshman, plays the role of wit-
ness for his team.
Members of the Mock Trial Team, also called 
the “LitiGators,” participate in rehearsed trials in regional and national competitions. 
The team recently participated in compe-
titions at the University of Georgia, Florida 
State University and UF. Teams and individu-
al members from UF won awards.
Cassel won Best Witness awards at the 
UGA and UF competitions.
“You have to polish the character you are 
becoming, and that takes practice,” Cassel said. “You need to be interesting to listen to.”
Cassel said his success is a result of team-
work.  The UF Mock Trial Team is divided into 
four separate teams, all between nine and 10 
members. The team had 37 members in all.
While this is the Mock Trial Team’s fifth 
year in existence, it is the first year the team has a faculty adviser. Before that, the team was 
completely student-run.
Laura Sjoberg, an assistant professor in 
political science, is the faculty coach for the 
team. 
She works closely with team members and 
gives them advice.
“The plan is to send all four teams to 
the national championship,” Sjoberg said. “We’ve got the largest group UF has fielded.”  
The championship, which has no set location yet, usually takes place in April.
Until then, team members will continue 
practicing and attending local competitions.
“Most members are pre-law, so it’s hard not 
to fall in love,” said John Kelly, a 21-year-old fi-nance senior and president of the team. “And when you spend this much time together, we become best friends.”Mock trial team wins accolades in local competitions
Scott
“You have to polish the character 
you are becoming.”
John Cassel 
UF Mock Trial Team memberTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — The family of a Florida 
A&M University drum major who 
died in what authorities suspect was a hazing incident will sue the school, an attorney said Friday.
The family of Robert Champion, 
26, is spending the holiday weekend planning Champion’s funeral, attor -
ney Christopher Chestnut said.
The Atlanta resident was found on 
a bus parked outside an Orlando hotel Saturday night after the school’s foot-ball team lost to rival Bethune-Cook-man. Police said Champion, a clarinet 
player who recently was named drum 
major, had been vomiting and com-plained he couldn’t breathe shortly before he collapsed.
The cause of Champion’s death 
hasn’t been determined. Preliminary autopsy results were inconclusive, and a spokeswoman with the Orange County medical examiner’s office said 
it could take up to three months to 
learn exactly what killed him.
Law enforcement officials have 
said they believe some form of haz-ing took place before 911 was called. Chestnut said he also believes the in-juries Champion sustained were con-sistent with hazing.
A spokesman for the school, which 
was closed for the Thanksgiving holi-day, could not be reached for comment Friday.
In Florida, any death involving 
hazing is a third-degree felony.
The fallout from Champion’s death 
was immediate. On Tuesday , the school shuttered the famed marching band and the rest of the music depart-
ment’s performances. The next day , 
longtime band director Julian White was fired. Florida Gov . Rick Scott said state investigators would join the probe, and the college announced an independent review led by a former state attorney general.
Tallahassee attorney Chuck Hobbs 
said White, a tenured professor, had 
tried for years to get administration 
backing on his efforts to stop hazing.
“Hazing within the Marching 100 
has often been met with reckless indif-ference by White’s superior officers who often ignored his requests for assistance,” Hobbs wrote in a letter to Florida A&M President James Am-mons.
The attorney said Champion’s fam-
ily hopes a lawsuit against the school will help raise awareness about the is-sue of band hazing.
Hazing cases have cropped up in 
marching bands, especially at histori-cally black colleges where a spot in the marching band is coveted. In many cases, the bands are revered almost as 
much as the sports teams for which 
they play.
In 2008, two first-year French 
horn players in Southern University’s marching band were hospitalized af-ter a beating. In 2009, 20 members of Jackson State University’s band were suspended over hazing accusations.
There have been numerous inci-
dents at FAMU. In 2001, Marcus Park-er suffered kidney damage after being beaten by a paddle.MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
Although the Gators lost against 
Florida State University, UF did 
break one season record on Satur -
day night. 
With 156 ejections from Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium and 11 arrests, the UF-FSU game had the highest 
number of ejections and arrests of 
all the home games this season.  
At the UF-Alabama football game, seven people were arrested and 102 people were ejected–the high-
est number of ejections and arrests 
this season until the UF-FSU game, according to Alligator archives. 
The new season records for the 
FSU game were expected given the nature of the game, said Maj. Brad Barber, public information officer for the University Police. 
“This was something that we 
prepared for and was typical of a rivalry game played later on in the evening,” he said. 
One of the 11 people arrested 
was a UF student. Additional in-formation on the student wasn’t available at press time. 
Arrests could include physical 
arrests or notices to appear in court, Barber said. UF students who were arrested or ejected from Saturday’s game or previous matches this sea-son could also face repercussions  
from UF Office of Student Conduct 
and Conflict Resolution.
UPD worked with the 
Gainesville Police Department, Alachua County Sheriff’s Office and Florida Highway Patrol on gameday.
The most common reason for 
ejecting people from the stadium Saturday was disorderly conduct, for which 50 people were ejected and two were arrested, according 
to a UPD news release.
There were 31 ejections for alco-
hol possession, including four ar -
rests, and two arrests for underage possession of alcohol. 
“It was very busy, and the offi-
cers did an excellent job managing 
a very hectic night,” Barber said. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
An FSU fan is handcuffed and escorted out of the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium during Saturday’s game.
gAmed AySaturday’s game breaks season record for arrests, ejections
� TWO SUSPECTS ARE IN CUSTODY.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
COLUMBUS, Ohio — The father of an Ohio 
man found dead after answering a Craigslist 
help-wanted ad said Sunday his son sought the job in order to better provide for his three boys.
Timothy Kern, 47, of Massilon was found dead 
Friday , buried near an Akron, Ohio, shopping mall. The Summit County Medical Examiner’s office said he was shot in the head.
Kern’s father, Jack Kern, told The Associated 
Press on Sunday that his son was employed “here and there” and responded to the ad for a farm-hand job because he wanted the best for his own sons, ages 17, 18 and 28.
Jack Kern said the ad offered $300 a week to 
tend more than 680 acres, similar to a Craigslist ad that police say lured another man to his death.
“That’s all he (Timothy) wanted — to give 
his kids a better life,” Jack Kern said. “This job seemed like a great opportunity . He was really upbeat about the whole thing.”
Authorities say a Craigslist ad was used to lure 
Norfolk, Va., resident David Pauley, 51, to Ohio, apparently with the intent of robbing him. Pauley was found dead in a rural area of Noble County, 
90 miles south of Akron. A South Carolina man 
also answered the ad and was shot Nov. 6 before escaping, police say. Two suspects are in custody and a judge has issued a gag order On the case.
A third body was found hours after Kern’s, 
not far from where Pauley’s was buried in a hand-dug grave. That person has not been iden-tified and authorities are not saying whether the 
three deaths are linked.
The farm advertised on Craigslist does not 
exist; the property where Pauley’s body and the 
unidentified body were found is owned by a coal company and often leased to hunters.
Jack Kern said it came as no surprise when the 
FBI sat his family down Saturday and told them Timothy Kern was dead of gunshot wounds to the head. He said it was out of character for his son, who was divorced, not to be in touch with his boys.
“We had expected this. We had hopes, but 
if he would have gotten away, he would have found his way , some way to call,” the elder Kern said. “He constantly saw his sons. I paid his cell-phone bill and saw the texting, sometimes until 2, 3 o’clock in the morning. I asked, ‘What can you guys talk about with 1,000 text messages a month?’”
Jack Kern said one of his son’s biggest con-
cerns with the Craigslist job was that he was told 
he would have no cellphone service and would 
be miles away from his boys.
Authorities have said robbery may have been 
the motive for Pauley’s death and the attack on the South Carolina man. They said Pauley was told to bring all of his possessions to the site.
Jack Kern said everything Timothy Kern 
owned was sitting in his ex-wife’s house in Massi-
lon, where the man apparently behind the job 
posting was supposed to pick him up on Nov. 15. Timothy Kern went missing Nov. 13.
The elder Kern said one of the stipulations of 
the job was that his son was supposed to sign his car over to the man in exchange for a truck. Kern said his son never told him the man’s name.
The two suspects in custody are from the Ak-
ron area: a high school student who has been charged with attempted murder and 52-year-old 
Richard Beasley, who is in jail on unrelated charg-
es. Beasley’s mother has described her son’s rela-tionship with the jailed teen as that of a mentor.Craigslist job-seekers killed
“That’s all he (Timothy) wanted — 
to give his kids a better life. This job 
seemed like a great opportunity. He 
was really upbeat about the whole 
thing.”
Jack Kern
father of Timothy Kern“This was something 
that we prepared for and 
was typical of a rivalry 
game played later on in the      
evening.”
Brad Barber
UPD public information officer
Attorney: Family plans to sue 
in FAMU band student’s deathReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialMONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORMatters of Faith
Can religious beliefs 
coexist with science?
If you have not seen a “Coexist” bumper sticker with the 
letters composed of different religious symbols, you have 
probably never been on or around UF’s campus. 
But are the people who proudly flaunt these hopes for peace 
and harmony just really optimistic? Can individuals with radi-
cally different worldviews still cooperate in a modern society? 
Most would agree that in theocratic or authoritarian re-
gimes, this sort of tolerance or coexistence is virtually impos-sible. If the people living in these regimes do not find opposing 
viewpoints offensive, the governments certainly do. 
But what about Western democracies? 
Despite the political squabbles that occur during each elec-
tion year, most people seem to get along just fine regardless of their ideologies or religious beliefs. Issues like abortion and 
evolution do not seem to cause huge uproars, despite strong 
opinions on both sides. 
Well, it would seem that way. 
Biology and premed students at the University College Lon-
don in England have been boycotting lectures about Darwinist 
theory and evolution. What has offended these students?
Natural selection, according to the Islamic students who are 
protesting the theory, does not align with the teachings of the 
Quran, and the students do not think they should have to listen 
to them. 
But why are these students studying biology in the first 
place? Biology is a science that significantly conflicts with their 
religious teachings. In fact, if the scriptures of any religion are 
taken as the “word of God,” they will significantly contradict 
modern scientific findings. 
For instance, according to National Geographic, the great 
flood that occurred in the story of Noah and the Ark likely wasn’t so great after all, with sea levels rising only about 95 
feet rather than the hundreds of feet depicted in the Bible. 
Of course, creationism or Noah’s Ark are seen by believers 
as matters of faith, not confined by the realm of science. 
That’s fine. You have the right to believe whatever you 
want. 
But are these “matters of faith” compatible with modern 
scientific thought? Can one claim to be a true believer of these 
revelations while still accepting scientific theories? 
These Islamic students are almost commendable for stand-
ing up for their beliefs and boycotting teachings that contradict 
their faith. 
They appear to have the characteristics of true believers.
But one cannot say the same for the religious in the United 
States who rarely put up a fight when their beliefs are chal-lenged by science or evidence.
Perhaps coexistence is possible, but it appears that one re-
ally has to sacrifice his or her strong religious convictions in order to tolerate opposing views.
126 TOTAL VOTES28% YES
72% NOToday’s question: Are you happy that football season is over?
Wednesday’s question: Is Thanksgiving 
your favorite holiday?Expansion talk must end before it begins
The most dangerous part of the increased cost of at-
tendance at UF is coming from fees that are care-lessly foisted on the Student Body and even more 
carelessly spent on our behalf. There is talk that our fees should go to a renovated and expanded Reitz Union. This talk must end before it begins again. 
Student Body Treasurer T.J. Villamil recently spoke 
out in favor of a larger Reitz Union. Buried within his description of the financing of the project is the real-ity of the huge cost. He said the UF Local Fee commit-tee raised student fees by 5 percent this year, which is a practice he expects will continue. Students now pay 
about $54 of the $188 per credit hour toward fees, which 
works out to about $1,620 a year, assuming they take two 15-credit-hour semesters. 
Villamil expects the expansion can be paid for with 
leftover student fee money and outside funding. This characterization is disingenuous. Renovating the Reitz could easily be a $100-million project, which will re-quire 5-percent fee increases in perpetuity. 
The best part about the higher education spending 
binge is that the interest groups behind projects ensure that ideas continue to get brought up when it is clear they are not favored. In the spring 2010 Student Gov-ernment election, about 56 percent of students voted 
against a fee increase to pay for an expanded Reitz 
Union. This vote happened in a Greek and SG organiza-tion-dominated election, meaning a significant portion of the constituency calling for a bigger Reitz originally wanted nothing to do with it. If all students were polled 
and provided a description of the cost, I wouldn’t be 
shocked to learn that 80 percent of students are opposed to seeing an enhanced Reitz Union. 
Students don’t need more study space. There are al-
ready countless buildings open around campus after 5 p.m. Matherly, Little and Griffin-Floyd halls are essen-tially empty in the late afternoon. If you are so desper -ate for more study room, go to a fully equipped classroom to work. The same goes for stu-
dent organizations. Not every 
group has to meet in the Reitz Union at 7 p.m. on a Wednes-day. We should take advantage 
of the fantastic meeting space 
all around campus that is se-
verely underutilized. The increased cost to the univer -
sity from doing this is essentially zero. The air condi-tioners and heaters are already on in these buildings, 
yet nobody uses them. The party line about not having 
enough meeting and study space is simply not true. 
As for the charge that the air-conditioning unit at the 
Reitz could fail at any time, the managers of the Reitz 
should act responsibly and set up an emergency ac-
count with money from the building’s budget each year instead of expecting students to bail them out.
With continual 5-percent increases in fees, the ap-
proximately $1,620 we pay today in fees yearly would 
be $6,480 in only 30 years, which most of us might have 
to pay ourselves if we have kids who decide to go to UF. Who among us chose UF because it was the best finan-cial decision for our families? I certainly did. 
The best students in the state couldn’t care less if we 
have a fancy student union. 
If we don’t stand up and fight back against the jeal-
ous, green-eyed monster of student fee increases, our degrees will become less valuable as students with op-
tions choose other universities that know how to keep 
costs under control. 
If I have to pay more money for my college educa-
tion, I want it to fund professors, not a new monument 
for Student Government. 
Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at 
UF. His column appears on Mondays.
Travis Hornsby
letters@alligator.org MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Letter to the Editor
Drinking age, drunk driving should not 
be taken lightly
What’s the drinking age for ignorance? 
It might be shocking to some, but “puk-
ing your stomach out” or “waking up with 
one of the worst headaches you have ever had” does not even begin to cover the po-tential consequences of irresponsible alcohol 
consumption.
It’s no wonder there are so many inci-
dents of binge-drinking and alcohol-related emergencies at Shands at UF; the Student 
Body is reading articles in the Alligator that imply puking and headaches are the only consequences of drinking irresponsibly. 
On Feb. 25, 2006, I was a 19-year-old soph-
omore at UF when my car was hit head-on by another student who was driving while severely intoxicated. 
Eleven days later, I woke up from a coma 
that was the result of a right-side brain in-jury to a broken right femur, a crushed right heel, torn ligaments in my left knee and a 
broken left elbow and forearm. All of these 
injuries helped remove the stigma of alcohol 
consumption for me as a 19-year-old, but 
certainly a headache or puking will have the same impact, right?
Drinking is a privilege, a responsibility 
and potentially very dangerous.
Here’s an idea for the Alligator Editorial 
Board: Do a little research before you write to an audience that is mostly underage col-lege students about the “pleasure and pain” 
of alcohol consumption and how the drink-
ing age should be lowered. 
My little brother, a freshman at UF this 
year, read this editorial and knew better. But what about everyone else?  
Grow up, Alligator. Stop trying to be “the 
cool big brother,” and stop serving igno-
rance.
Nicole Martingano
UF Class of 2009
The balanced-budget amendment put forth by House 
Republicans last week failed to pass during a Friday vote. At 261 yeas to 165 nays, the measure came up 
just 23 votes short of the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution to advance an amendment.
Many critics have argued that the push for a balanced-
budget amendment to the Constitution was merely symbol-ic. Even if the House had managed to carry the measure, it would still have had to face a Senate vote before being passed along to the various state legislatures for ratification.
To be generous to the bill’s proponents, it was definitely a 
long shot in the current Congress. And it missed.
The amendment failed, surprisingly, amid considerable 
public support. According to a July 18-20 CNN/ORC Inter -
national poll, nearly three in four Americans supported the passage of a balanced-budget amendment. Sixty percent of those polled also believed that a balanced-budget amend-ment was the only way to control the deficit. Given that spending has continued at an alarming rate since then, it is doubtful those numbers have decreased.
Some accused the amendment’s supporters of hypocrisy, 
pointing to the budget surplus coming out of the Clinton administration that collapsed under the succeeding Repub-lican administration. Minority Whip Steny Hoyer even went as far as to tell Republicans to practice what they preach: “It will take no courage to vote for this amendment, but it will take courage to balance our budget by paying for what we buy.”
But the most important reason that most Democrats 
opposed the bill is the fear that it would constrict federal spending. In the words of Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr., D-Ill., “I am addicted to saving lives. I am addicted to making sure that Social Security is not violently cut by the balanced-budget amendment.”Jackson’s words sum up one of 
the left’s major arguments: Things are so bad economically that the gov-ernment cannot afford to not spend money.
Keynesian economic theory, which underpins most eco-
nomic policies advocated by the left in Washington, argues that in times of economic decline, the government needs to be more active with spending policies. Government spend-ing, they argue, fills in the gaps and keeps the economy moving forward until the private sector recovers.
This kind of thinking inspired not only President Obama’s 
stimulus package, but also several other big-spending bills passed throughout his administration. This kind of think-ing, however, is also the reason President Obama is set to outspend the whole of former President George W. Bush’s administration by next spring.
It is true that government spending can keep gross do-
mestic product activity high and prevent many major eco-nomic markers from dropping very far. And it is also true that many people benefit from welfare programs like Social Security. 
But to then argue that such spending is actually a form of 
economic stimulus, as the administration tried to argue with food stamps last year, is patently absurd.
Keynesian economic policy is sort of like drinking alco-
hol in the winter with the hope that you will get warmer. Sure, you might feel warm, but it’s actually just the numbing effect of the alcohol reducing your sense of temperature. If you stay outside long enough, you’ll still get hypothermia or frostbite because you are still very, very cold. And very drunk.
Government spending during a recession makes things 
look a lot better than they are. But unless the private sector gets going again, all the spending does is make us feel better 
about the situation. The economy, in reality, is still in very 
bad shape.
President Obama’s administration has simply not been 
a friend of American business, save for the ones that do-
nated to his campaign or market themselves as being a part 
of the green energy sector. His administration’s policies 
have placed immense regulatory and economic burdens on 
American business owners.
But instead of acknowledging this, the president has ar -
gued in recent weeks that American businesses have gotten “lazy” about being competitive internationally and attract-
ing jobs.
The rhetoric makes sense given Obama’s policies. Lazy 
and immoral businesses obviously can’t be trusted to save 
the economy, so the government has to step in. But with record-breaking levels of spending, Obama’s rhetoric will 
soon be the only thing left propping up America’s massive 
budget.
And talk, as the saying goes, is cheap.
The balanced-budget amendment was not the coward’s 
way out, as Steny Hoyer suggested. Rather, it was and still is 
a necessary and permanent step toward tackling the deficit. 
By limiting government spending, it directly challenged the 
Keynesian economic theory that is dominating the current crop of politicians in the White House. It would have forced Congress to consider policies that don’t merely fill economic holes, but rather encourage sustainable growth and private-sector expansion.
So much for that attempt to tie down Washington’s 
spending. Guess we’ll be hitting the economic sauce for a while longer.
David Giffin is a columnist at the Emory Wheel at Emory 
University. 
Balanced-budget amendment is necessary step to fix the deficitUWire
David Griffin
UWireMEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
I have a traffic hangover.
I remember speeding north on 
Florida’s Turnpike, but somewhere around Orlando everything turned into a blur of winking taillights. A 
pounding headache reminds me 
I’ve been in a car since breakfast.
It started off innocently enough.
After a family-filled Thanksgiv-
ing holiday , I bid my mother and 
father goodbye, hopped in my car 
and sped away from Miami Shores 
to Gainesville.
The radio was pumping classic 
rock, and I had a need for some se-rious highway speed. Before long, I was up to a nice cruising pace of 80 
mph.
It was smooth sailing. The road 
was barely spotted with cars, and they’d been kind enough to space 
themselves out evenly.
Somewhere in the back of my 
mind, I remembered an interview I’d done with the city public works spokesman, Chip Skinner.
Like an ominous soothsayer, he 
reminded me that Sunday would be the worst day this week for north-
bound traffic into Gainesville.
“It’s going to be very busy on Sunday,” he’d said.
And, like the archetypal jester, I’d 
thought, “How bad could it possibly be?”
To my naive dismay, it turned out 
northbound traffic into Gainesville was very bad. 
I was able to get from Miami to 
Fort Pierce in about an hour and a half — right on schedule for a four-
and-a-half-hour trip. In another three hours, I thought, I’d be back in 
Gainesville.
I passed Clermont, eager to get 
by the stream of cars merging onto the Turnpike from Orlando.
Then the car ahead of me slowed. 
Its brake lights inched closer to my bumper. 
Maybe there’s an accident ahead 
of me, I thought. Maybe I’m getting close to a toll plaza.
Then traffic froze.
Five minutes passed. The stream 
of vehicles inched forward. Five mph, 10 mph, 15 mph.
And back to zero.
I soon realized I’d hit the point 
where the sun was too low for my 
sun visor to be of any help, and the only radio stations in range were blasting holiday music like it was 
Christmas Eve.
An hour into the traffic jam, the crowd in front of me started to clear. 
I eased my car faster and faster until 
I hit 60 mph.
Thank goodness it’s over, I 
thought with a sigh.
Taillights glowed red, and the gridlock started all over again. I 
eased over a hill and saw the line 
stretched ahead for mile after mile.
There was no end in sight.
I ended up in Gainesville after 
a six-and-a-half hour trip. My eyes were red. I couldn’t think straight. 
I know driving back on Sunday 
was a good idea at some point, but I can’t even remember why anymore.
Next year, I’m coming back on 
Monday.8, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
Alligator File Photo
A northbound traffic jam on Interstate 75 is shown in this Alligator file photo. Reporter Meredith Rutland 
experienced gridlocked traffic similar to this on her drive from Miami Shores to Gainesville on Sunday.
� BUT THEY SPEND MORE TIME 
WORKING FOR PAY.
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
A national study has confirmed what 
some suspected all along: Business majors 
study less than their peers in other majors.
The National Survey of Student Engage-
ment 2011 report, released Nov. 17, found 
business majors spend an average of 14 hours 
a week studying.
Engineers, who put in the most study 
hours of all the major categories, spend 19 hours a week studying as seniors.
The National Survey of Student Engage-
ment is administered annually and provides diagnostic, comparative information about effective educational practices, according to its website.This year’s report was based on responses 
from four-year college and university stu-dents from 683 institutions in the United States and 68 in Canada.
J.T. Madigan, 21, a marketing junior, said 
he usually only studies if there’s a test coming up. He guessed on average he studies two to four hours per week and still manages pretty decent grades.
Madigan said he probably studies less 
than his friends in other majors but most of his tests are fact-based rather than problem-solving focused.
“I think it’s just a different way of under -
standing,” he said. 
Many of the core courses in the business 
major are offered online, which often means less time studying, he said. 
“It’s like not even having a class until a test 
rolls around,” he said.
Online classes tend to be large, too, so 
the tests are multiple-choice, Madigan said. There might be no projects or essays along with them because there would be too many to grade.
Although they spend less time studying, 
business majors who responded to NSSE’s 
survey spent the most time working for pay–
an average of 16 hours a 
week, while engineers re-ported only nine hours per week.
Jillian Kinzie, associate 
director of the NSSE Insti-tute, said NSSE has been 
collecting data on study 
time and academic habits 
since 2000, but this is the 
first year students were examined by major. 
She said the fact that business students 
spend more hours per week working for pay is significant.
“I think that’s a really interesting compari-
son to the other fields,” she said.Kinzie also thought it would be interesting 
to find out how students’ interest in working for pay could be brought into their course-work. 
Marketing senior Cassandra Diaz, 21, 
works as a career and academic peer mentor in the Warrington College of Business Ad-ministration and is a member of Delta Sigma Pi, a business fraternity.
She thinks the idea that business majors 
are slackers is completely wrong.
Diaz said she spends at least 15 hours 
studying for a big exam, which is much more than her friends in other majors. 
She finds her upper-level classes difficult, 
but she said she chose UF for the rigor of its business program.
“I’m definitely satisfied,” she said. “Some-
times the facilitation of learning is difficult be-cause [professors are] teaching that class over and over, but I always manage to do well and put in the extra time.” Business students put in less study hours than those with other majorssnAPshot
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
The MCAT is on track to see some big changes in 2015, 
but UF premed undergraduates aren’t likely to see a modi-
fication in required courses.
The exam’s changes were initially announced in March. 
The Association of American Medical Colleges board of di-
rectors must give final approval to the changes in February 
before they can be implemented in exams in 2015.
The biggest change will be the addition of a behavioral 
and social sciences principles section. This section will test psychology and sociology concepts.
Dr. Jeff Koetje, the national director for Kaplan’s pre-
health programs, said this change is an effort to place more emphasis on the need for doctors to be able to effectively communicate with patients.
The revised exam will also focus more heavily on con-tent from advanced science courses, including biochemis-
try, cellular and molecular biology, and research method-
ology and statistics. The MCAT’s writing sample will be eliminated, and the verbal reasoning section will be ex-panded to include questions about ethics, philosophy and cross-cultural studies.
All in all, these changes will amount to about 115 min-
utes of added test time, lengthening the exam from five-and-a-half to seven hours.
Koetje said this is the fifth time the MCAT’s content has 
been reviewed, but these changes are the largest the test has ever seen.
“Medicine has changed significantly in the last 20 to 30 
years, but the MCAT has not,” he said. 
In a study released last week, Kaplan Test Prep found 
that 73 percent of medical school admissions officers say these are positive changes. However, 67 percent said it would be necessary for colleges to revise their undergradu-ate premed curriculum by 2015 to reflect the entrance ex-am’s changes.
Roberta Knickerbocker, a UF pre-health adviser, wrote 
in an email that she doesn’t expect to see a change in pre-requisite courses for UF premed students. 
The advising office recommends that students planning 
to take the exam after the proposed changes go into effect should consider taking introductory level psychology, so-ciology and statistics courses.
At UF, about 40 percent of a premed student’s admis-
sion is based on metrics, or a student’s MCAT score and GPA, said Leila Amiri,  director of admissions for the Col-lege of Medicine. Other factors include a student’s experi-ence, interview and overall application.
Premed senior Jodi Wallace, a 21-year-old psychology 
student, took the MCAT in May.
She said no matter what courses premed students take, 
they will still have to do a “substantial amount” of study-ing on their own to review concepts for the MCAT.
“If anything, the [prerequisite] courses prepare you best 
for all the independent studying,” she said.UF premed requirements not likely to change after MCAT alterationsTraffic was not the best way to end the Thanksgiving break
The test will be about 115 minutes longer
Kinzie
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
$795-2/2 Furnished Apt. On bus route, 1.5 
miles to UF campus. W/D, AC, Cable and in-ternet included. Pool, Fitness ctr., computer lab. No application fee. Yearly and monthly lease. 305-793-4290.   1-25-11-22-1
$330/month. Close To UF ! 2 rooms in
4BR/2BA unit on seperate leases at Univ
Commons, full washer & dryer, free cable
TV and internet, quiet 3rd floor. Utilities pkg
$30/month. No other fees ! Move in now !
813-854-5628, bradshepherd2@gmail.com
12-1-11-5-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        
12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600
$99 Move In Special!
352-372-7555
FrederickGardens.com
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, 
fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term 
available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-
2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.
Great pools • Fitness • Tennis
Call for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’s
BivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis
●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 
4352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1480/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    12-7-11-34-2● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
12-7-11-33-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-
7-11-32-2
Close to UF, $555/month plus $300 sec dep. 
2BR with 2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/
paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 
1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-
4088 or 352/514-7098    12-7-11-26-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling 
fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we 
have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, 
last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550
12-7-11-19-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings 
for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  
2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laundry 372-
3783    12-7-11-18-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. 
Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/
mo. Call 278-8381    12-7-11-15-2
Newly renovated very clean, spacious prop-
erty near everything in NW area available for lease. Laundry room, lots of storage space, central H/Ac, fireplace, much more. $890/mo. Call 352-375-6754 or 352-495-6250   1-9-11-15-2
Get an entire 2/2 apt for only $820/mo avail -
able NOW! Clean, spacious, comfortable 
inside. Gated community. Access to tanning beds, 24 hr gym, basketball & tennis courts & more. Furnishing available 954-625-5043   12-7-13-2
QUIET ngbd close to campus: 2br/2b,
w/d, tile floors, built in storage,
bookcases & desk, lge yard. $800/m.
Call 352-335-7139 for more details.
1-9-11-13-2
A charming, 3 BR/1.5 BA house. Great 
Neighborhood. Close to UF. W/D. Available January 1 (flexible). 2 people - $800/mo. 3 
people - $900/mo. Call Meryl: 352-373-5933   
12-2-11-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Contact 305-502-6261
2 bedrooms, 2 baths. $515/mo all inclusive and fully furnished. Pet friendly. Available from spring to summer. Apt in Windsor Park.   12-2-10-3
DISTRICT ON 62ND
1BR/1BA available now in 3BR/3BA through June 2012. $412/mo, furnished, W/D incl. Call 352-514-2942    11-28-11-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-7-74-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available 
December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MO
cable, internet, utilities, pool+ more
beautifully renovated, on bus route,  
Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-9-
11-14-4
Walk to UF! 2/1 SFD Private room, dual 
closets, share all living room, kitchen & laun -
dry privileges. No deposit required $300.00 month first/last. 378-1775    11-28-11-5-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 Countryside condo, near poolside. Easy commute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. Text 386-233-0011, ph 386-676-9703, nukken1@aol.com1-9-11-11-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests 
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. 
Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still 
in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     
12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
NEED EXTRA CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS? 
WE BUY SMARTPHONES, TABLETS, 
IPODS ,GAMING SYSTEMS*, LAPTOPS, 
&MORE. 6450 SW ARCHER RD BY BEEF 
'O' BRADY'S. TECHMODO 352-872-5881
11-29-7-8
 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
●●● BK CHRISTMAS TREES ●●●
Potted Red Cedar & Arizona Cypress; 3 ft to 
13 ft; $5 to $65. Free pecans & sugar cane. 20926 NW 75th St., Alachua, 10am-6pm, 7 days. 386-462-2060    1-9-11-
10-10Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory Refurbished
Check Us Out Before You Buy!!
Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL
352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com
4-25-11-99-10
SAWMILLS from only $3997- MAKE MONEY 
& SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship. 
FREE Info & DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.
com (800)578-1363 Ext.300N
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-
74-11
12-7-11-74-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifiedsCARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-
74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS
CASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $999
94 FORD TAURUS $999
96 HONDA ACCORD $1499
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $1999
01 DODGE NEON $1999
00 OLDS ALERO $2500
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $8999
03 MITS ECLIPSE $7999
05 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999
352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $12999
04 HONDA ODYSSEY $9999
05 SUZUKI XLT $9999
352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-9-11-50-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
12, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
12-5-11-77-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by The Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 
372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
 PROOFREADER
ACT/SAT ADMINISTRATORLINUX ADMINISTRATORGRAPHICS DESIGNERX-PLANE DEVELOPERSOFTWARE DEVELOPERTECH SUPPORTPlease apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment.      12-7-11-16-14
Sanford Office looking for General Dentist to 
work with a great team. Part-Time(one-two days a week)Position available as soon as possible. fax Resume to (407) 324-9229    1-10-11-17-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7064    1-9-11-16-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230   12-1-11-10-14
Seeking Professional Leasing All Stars !
Ideal candidates enjoy working with people, 
have excellent communication skills, profes-sional appearance and have the ability to close a deal. Leasing experience is preferred but not required. Some evening and week-end hours required. Schedules are flexible. This is a PT position. Please fax resumes to: 352-379-8071    11-28-5-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between 
the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-
tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   
1-9-11-12-14Earn $50-$65
Participate in an insurance research study. 
Contact DSG Associates, Inc. Sign up on-
line at www.dsgai.com or call 800-462-8765. 
Free to sign up!    11-30-11-5-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com    1-9-11-11-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly work
Flexible schedules
$8 an hour to start
Apply online at RGIS.COM     1-9-11-10-14
Opus Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active students
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast-
paced coffee bar near campus.
Starting pay is $7.75/hour + tips.
To apply, go to our website,
www.opus-cafe.com, click on the
employment tab, and follow the directions.     
12-5-11-7-14
NOW HIRING
VALET PARKING ATTENDANTS
Flexible  scheduling. $8-$15/hour.
Email Kurt kmorrell@717parking.com    12-
1-11-5-14
We are currently seeking a flexible indi -
vidual to fill the position of part-time (OPS) 
office clerk. HS diploma or GED required. 
Experienced with Microsoft Excel and good 
organizational skills are a must. You may fax 
resume or application to (352) 375-5182 or 
mail to: University Athletic Association, Inc. 
PO Box 14485 Gainesville, FL 32604-2485 
ATTN: Casey Owens    11-28-11-1-14
P/T Tutoring Spring Semester 2012: college 
courses: algebra, poli sci, & history for local non-profit serving learning disabled college students. Please call 352-335-8966 or email resume to reports@academic-success.net.   12-7-8-14
NANNY needed for 3: ages 10,12+
MTTH 1:40-4:40; W/F 12:30-3:30$12/hr; 12-15hrs/wk; $180-200/wkemail resume, photo, schedule toinfo@noahsarknanny.com    11-30-11-3-14
NANNY needed for 2: ages 3 & 5
MTW+TH 7:45 to 5:45; 35hrs/wk;$11.50/hr: EXP. refs, cpr, bkkg ch.email resume, photo, schedule toinfo@noahsarknanny.com    11-30-11-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
12-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
Like www.GoBud.org Travel/Leisure on 
Facebook before December 1st and one 
random person will receive a $50 American 
Express gift card.    11-30-3-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST!! 2011 NCAA Women's Tennis 
Championship ring. searched everywhere! Men's style with large blue F surrounded by crystals. Stored in small black box - last seen near Looking Glass apartments. Reward! lauramather@comcast.net    11-28-11-7-25NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
12-7-78-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider 
housing available. Barn Family Program to 
mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling 
opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    
2-29-11-51-15 
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association 
Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 
years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   
1-9-11-11-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Best religion? NO religion! Get to know your 
Creator. See why the Bible is unique. Try "www.godonthe.net/evidence/codes.htm" (entire page). You Tube. "Chuck Missler Isaiah 53 Bible Code" and "Chuck Missler Hidden Torah Message Bible Code".   1-9-11-9-18
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Muschamp’s Comments
Do you agree with coach Will Muschamp’s remarks about the Gators 
being a soft football team? Vote online at alligatorSports.org.  Coach Mary Wise’s volleyball team was selected Sunday to participate in its 21st straight NCAA Tournament. See story at alligatorSports.org.
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
After a major scare to open the 
second half, Florida linebacker 
Darrin Kitchens is expected to be fine.
According to the team, Kitch-
ens was released from Shands at UF late Saturday night after a hel-met-to-helmet hit knocked him out of UF’s 21-7 loss to FSU.
Kitchens strapped to a back-
board and carted off the field after taking a brutal hit on the third quarter’s opening kickoff. The sophomore lied motionless 
on the field for nearly 10 minutes 
as trainers and doctors attended to him and the rest of his team looked on from the 30-yard line.
Trainers carted Kitchens off 
the field following a long, cau-tious attempt to stabilize and move him onto the backboard. As he was being carted off, Kitch-
ens raised his left arm and gave a 
thumbs up to his teammates and the crowd of 90,798.
“It’s always scary when you 
deal with something like that,” coach Will Muschamp said Sat-urday night. “Good, clean hit on their part, but I think he’s going to be fine.”Kitchens recorded 21 tackles 
on the season, including a career-high 12 last week against Furman while making his first career start.
Brantley concussed: Redshirt senior quarterback John Brantley suffered a concussion late in the first half Saturday and his father said he is “doing fine,” according to multiple reports Sunday.
Brantley was helped off the 
field after he was sandwiched between FSU defensive tackle 
Timmy Jernigan and defensive 
end Brandon Jenkins on a 21-yard pass to Quinton Dunbar.
Jenkins was also injured on 
the play and did not return to the game due to concussion-like symptoms.
Easley injured: Sophomore 
defensive tackle Dominique Ea-
sley was also carted off the field 
during Saturday’s loss to FSU with what Muschamp said was a twisted knee.
After the Seminoles scored 
their second touchdown early in the second quarter, Easley was helped off the field by trainers and subsequently checked out on 
the sideline before he was carted 
to the locker room with an ice pack on his left knee.
Before suffering the injury, 
Easley had two tackles, includ-ing a 5-yard sack of quarterback E.J. Manuel on Florida State’s first possession. He was replaced by redshirt freshman Leon Orr, who 
finished with one tackle.
Reed out: Florida was without 
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gators sophomore linebacker Darrin Kitchens is carted off the field during the third quarter of Satur -
day’s loss to the Seminoles after suffering an injury during a kickoff return. 
NOTEBOOK Kitchens out of hospital, should be OK after concussion  
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
In the midst of his 18th season as a 
head coach and on the threshold of a 
career milestone, it takes more than win-ning games to keep Billy Donovan go-ing.
If anything, the opportunity to earn 
his 400th win tonight in Orlando, when No. 10 Florida plays Stetson at 7, makes the 46-year-old Donovan feel older than he really is.
After former Florida guard and Mar -
shall transfer Jason Williams visited him last week, Donovan realized most of the players from his coaching debut with 
the Thundering Herd during the mid-
90s are now retired from the game and in their mid-30s. 
“Anytime you get to those milestones 
they’re always special, but I think more than anything else, I reflect back on the guys that I had the chance to coach,” Donovan said.
While he can recall any of the faces 
among the hundreds of players he has coached,  Donovan’s memory of past 
wins has gone fuzzy . In his 399 victories, 
the first doesn’t stick out.
“I have no idea,” Donovan said. “It 
was somewhere at Marshall, it was a long time ago. I couldn’t even tell you who we played. I don’t remember.”
It was a 112-67 victory against Blue-
field State on Nov . 26, 1994. 
Since then, Donovan has won two na-
tional championships and gone to three Donovan can reach 400th 
win against Stetson tonight � UF ALLOWED JUST 95 YARDS OF 
TOTAL OFFENSE IN 21-7 LOSS.
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
  
By nearly every measurement, Florida’s 
defense dominated Saturday night.
The Gators held the Seminoles to seven 
first downs, 95 total yards and a 2-for-15 
third-down conversion rate. FSU punted nine 
times. The E.J. Manuel-led offense averaged 
1.6 yards per play.
Still, Florida coach Will Muschamp was 
not satisfied with his defense in the Gators’ 21-7 loss, which was the first time since 2000 a team has lost a game in which it held the op-ponent to less than 100 yards of offense.
“They got four turnovers and we got one,” 
he said. “It wasn’t good enough.”
The turnover battle was, in fact, the only 
place Florida’s defense did not come through. Turnovers accounted for all of Florida State’s points, and the Seminoles’ only two scoring drives traveled 20 yards and 4 yards.
FSU freshman running back Devonta Free-man scored on both series, each of which came after Florida quarterback John Brantley threw an interception.  
The Seminoles entered Saturday’s game 
averaging 401.3 yards per game, including 126.1 yards on the ground. Florida, however, held FSU to 30 rushing yards — 0.7 yards per carry. The Gators sacked Manuel four times.
Saturday’s effort was a stark turnaround 
for Florida, which was torched for 446 yards and 
32 points by FCS opponent Furman last week. Over -
all, Florida’s defense has been inconsistent this sea-son, though it ranked 17th nationally in total defense (318.8 yards per game) be-
fore this week.
“I felt like we played really well on de-
fense,” junior defensive tackle Omar Hunter 
said. “I feel like that’s one of the best games we’ve put together this year. A lot of guys stepped up. … We just go out there and do our thing. We don’t worry about what the of-fense does, what special teams does. When Best defensive performance of 
season spoiled against FSU
“Anytime you get to those 
milestones they’re always spe-
cial.”
Billy Donovan
UF coach
Muschamp
SEE NOTEBOOK, p AgE 14
SEE DEFENSE, p AgE 14SEE HOOpS, p AgE 14
Poll Results
After Florida struggled against 
Furman, are you excited for the Florida State game this week?60% NO
40% YES
162 total votesdefense is on the ﬁ  eld, that’s all we think 
about.”
  But on a night when Florida once 
again had to turn to freshman quarter-back Jacoby Brissett, the Gators asked for more from their defense, and the burden was simply too much. Florida did come close to a couple potential 
game-changing turnovers, though.
  On Florida State’s ﬁ  rst scoring drive, 
safety De’Ante Saunders jarred the ball 
away from Manuel at the goal line, but the quarterback recovered. The Semi-noles scored on the next play.
  In the third quarter, on a ﬁ  rst and 
10 from the UF 39-yard line, Matt Elam jumped in front of FSU receiver Rod-ney Smith, only to drop an interception. Florida’s only touchdown came in the fourth quarter, two plays after defensive tackle Jaye Howard recovered a fumble.
  “We made some good plays on de-
fense,” linebacker Jelani Jenkins said. “(FSU) won the turnover battle, and when you win the turnover battle you have a chance to win. We got to get the ball off people a little bit better.” 
  Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org. 14, ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
 David Carr / Alligator
UF   coach Billy Donovan (left) said working with freshmen like Brad Beal (right) has been 
a rewarding part of the job and something that keeps him motivated after 18 years. 
Donovan learning coaching career about more than wins, losses
Final Fours. By reaching the pinnacle of his 
profession, though, he found coaching did not deﬁ  ne his life.
  “I’ve said this before, (NFL quarterback) 
Tom Brady made the comment after winning 
three Super Bowls, he said, ‘Is this all there is 
in life? There’s got to be more.’”
  The “more” for Donovan is keeping his 
family close and in one place for the majority of his career. While many of his colleagues have had to transplant their wives and children to numerous coaching stops, Donovan has lived in Gainesville for all but two seasons.
Donovan   also takes pride in seeing the 
growth and development of his players each year.
  On this Florida team, he has had to work 
center Patric Young into a more prominent role and help heralded guard Brad Beal man-age the hype and expectations of his freshman year. 
  Even senior Erving Walker needed extra at-
tention after struggling through a slow start to 
the season, which he broke out of last Friday 
with 21 points and six assists coming against Jacksonville.  “He’s been getting these wins for so long, 
but I’d be happy for him,” Walker said. “He’s a great coach, and hopefully we get [the 400th win] for him.”
  During the weekend, Donovan had to pre-
pare sophomore Will Yeguete for his ﬁ  rst ca-
reer start after 6-foot-10 forward Erik Murphy 
was lost for at least the next week with a me-niscus tear he suffered during practice. 
  “You got to really enjoy the process of 
dealing with these guys each and every day ,” Donovan said. “Sometimes there’s victories that nobody sees that you got to really look at in terms of helping these guys get better.”
When it comes to results on the court 
though, Donovan’s 400th win would still pale in comparison to Duke coach Mike Krzyze-wski and his NCAA-record 907 victories and counting during 37 years on the job.
  At Donovan’s current pace of 23.2 victories 
per season, it would take him 21 years just to reach Krzyzewski’s initial record-breaking 903rd win.
  “I’m not even halfway to that number, so to 
speak,” Donovan said. “So I really don’t think about that kind of stuff, I really don’t. I feel like the number makes me a feel a little bit older than I would like to.”
  Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org. HOOPS , from page 13
Lineman Young leaving team
its leading receiver Saturday, as tight end 
Jordan Reed was sidelined with an ankle injury he suffered against Furman.
  He entered Saturday leading all Gators 
receivers with 28 receptions for 307 yards 
and a pair of touchdowns despite miss-
ing two games earlier in the season with a hamstring injury.
  Young moving on: Redshirt junior of-
fensive lineman David Young told the team that he would like to move on from playing football despite having a year of eligibil-ity remaining. Young was honored during 
Saturday’s Senior Day ceremony and will 
graduate this year with a degree in recre-
ation and event man-agement.
  Young has ap-
peared in all 12 games this season and 28 for 
his career.
  Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.
org. NOTEBOOK  from page 13DEFENSE , from page 13Turnovers the difference in loss
UF Fo otballwant to play guard for us?”
On a night only 11 schol-
arship seniors were honored 
before the game, Muschamp 
also talked about youth, saying 
“Over 70 percent of our roster 
is freshmen and sophomores, 
and those are the guys that are 
playing.”
Still, he admitted Florida’s 
problems go deeper than sheer lack of depth.
“I know everybody wants to 
put their hand on one thing and say , ‘This is it. Eureka. We’ve 
got the solution.’ But that’s not the way it works,” he said. 
“There’s a lot things. There’s a 
lot of moving parts. … We’ve got to develop more discipline 
and toughness within what 
we’re trying to do, which I think we’ve made strides.”
But there are plenty of areas 
in which the Gators have strug-gled this season. 
Despite having two senior 
backs in Chris Rainey and Jeff Demps, and a fifth-year senior 
at quarterback, they rank 75th 
nationally in rushing offense, 71st in scoring offense and 101st in total offense. 
At minus-11, Florida is 114th 
in turnover margin — it’s no coincidence that LSU is first 
at plus-19. Under Muschamp, 
the Gators have been undis-
ciplined, ranking 114th in the 
country in penalties with 93. 
“We need to improve. That’s 
what recruiting is for and that’s what bowl practice and the off-
season and spring is for,” he 
said. “That’s what we’re going to do as a program. We’re go-ing to move forward to build 
on what we need to do.”
Despite the difficulties of 
the season, of the final game 
against FSU, Muschamp said he has hope for the future. 
“We’re going to be fine. It’s 
a very frustrating time right now to be a Florida Gator, and 
I understand that, and it falls 
on my shoulders, and there’s nobody else you need to look 
at,” he said. “But it’s going to 
get fixed, all right?”
But how, coach?
“I’m recruiting,” Muschamp 
said when asked what he would 
be doing this week. “I will not 
be in Gainesville, Florida.”
Contact Matt Watts at 
mwatts@alligator.org. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
What was supposed to be a 
dream sendoff at home for Florida’s 
seniors quickly turned into a night-mare Saturday.
The Gators’ 20 seniors, including 
11 scholarship athletes, had been to the top of the college football world during their careers in Gainesville, with 11 being a part of a BCS nation-al championship team and a South-eastern Conference championship squad in 2008.
But after a 21-7 loss to rival FSU 
on Senior Day to cap a 6-6 regular 
season, the senior class reached a 
nadir.
“Proud of our seniors; they ac-
complished an awful lot at the University of Florida,” coach Will Muschamp said after the game. “I’m proud of them, but we need to get better.”
While Muschamp said he was 
pleased with the seniors’ collective achievements throughout their ca-reers, Saturday’s performance was 
a different story, as only one senior 
had a positive impact.
Defensive tackle Jaye Howard 
had a five-tackle game that included a sack, two tackles for a loss and a fumble recovery.
For every other senior, it was a 
disappointing night — particularly for quarterback John Brantley and running back Chris Rainey , both of whom were unable to finish their fi-nal game in The Swamp.
Brantley tossed three intercep-
tions before he left due to injury late in the first half.
“That’s our quarterback, that’s our main leader,” defensive tackle Omar Hunter said. “He’s the guy that holds it all together. To see him go down, it takes something out of the team.”
Rainey left early in the fourth 
quarter with what Muschamp said 
he thought was a hip injury. Rainey 
finished the day with 42 rushing yards on 15 carries and four recep-tions for 5 yards.
The rest of the seniors did not 
fare any better.
Wide receiver Deonte Thompson 
finished with no catches in his final home game, and his only stat was a 
tackle in the first 
half after Brantley threw an inter -
ception into qua-druple coverage.
Running back 
Jeff Demps fin-ished with four carries for nega-
tive-8 yards.
Defensive end William Green 
was named a captain before the 
game, but finished with two tackles.
Offensive linemen Dan Wenger 
and James Wilson both struggled as the Gators were unable to establish a running game or sustain an offen-sive drive. They were beat on the 
line of scrimmage, not only Satur -
day, but much of the season.
As FSU celebrated in The Swamp, 
UF’s band played the alma mater 
one last time — but no player, senior or otherwise, was around to hear it.
“It felt like my heart was ripped 
out,” Wilson said. “I just went in-side.” 
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@
alligator.org.Lackluster finish for 
Florida’s senior class
Wilson
Maegan Dennis / Alligator Staff
MATT , from page 1Brantley throws three picks in home finale
UF gained just 54 yards on 33 carries against FSU. 
“You can’t put your finger on one thing and say, 
‘This is it,’” Muschamp said. “We’re doing all we can 
do. Doing all we can do with what we’ve got right now. We’ve got to find some better answers.”
On offense, the Gators have implemented the pistol, 
the I-formation, shotgun, two different Wildcat pack-ages and even some read-option plays, but none of it has worked. In Florida’s six losses it has averaged 61.8 yards per game on the ground. 
At times, redshirt senior quarterback John Brantley 
and the passing game have been able to cover up these 
faults, but Saturday it was a bigger part of the problem 
than the solution. 
Gators passers represented the majority of the offense 
for both teams. They completed 14 of 29 passes for 130 
yards and a touchdown, totals that were offset by four interceptions worth 130 return yards and a score for FSU. 
Florida State needed just 95 yards of offense to rack 
up 21 points, as each of their scores came off a turnover. 
“When that happens, you can’t expect us to win,” ju-
nior defensive tackle Omar Hunter said. “You can’t win like that.”
After throwing just three interceptions in 209 attempts 
before Saturday, Brantley came unraveled against the Seminoles. 
On the fourth play of UF’s second drive, he took a 
third-down snap and immediately locked on to wide re-ceiver Quinton Dunbar to his right. 
FSU cornerback Greg Reid quickly broke on the out 
route, jumping between Dunbar and the ball in time to secure the easy interception. Just three passes later, Brantley faked a handoff, 
moved to his right and then looked down the field to his left, lofting a pass to Deonte Thompson. 
By the time his fluttering toss reached it’s mark, four 
FSU defenders were in the area. Senior Mike Harris looked more like a punt returner than a defensive back as he hauled in the easy pick.
On Florida’s next drive, Brantley again missed his 
target by a considerable margin, and Reid had another effortless turnover in his hands. 
Before the first half was through, Florida State added 
injury to insult. 
After Florida took possession at its own 18 with 1:49 
left in the second quarter, Brantley took the snap, bought time, stepped up and delivered a strike to Dunbar on a post route, good for 21 yards. Just a moment after Brant-ley released the ball, his head was crunched between the 
helmets of two FSU defenders, knocking him out of the game. 
So ended Brantley’s final 
home appearance, a 9-of-15 per -
formance for 104 yards and three interceptions. 
“I hurt for him,” Muschamp said. “You don’t ever 
want to see anybody struggle to finish the game or not finish the game, especially if they’re a senior in their last game in The Swamp.”
Freshman Jacoby Brissett came on in relief but was 
no better, completing 4 of 13 passes for 27 yards, a touch-down and a fourth-quarter interception to senior Ter -
rance Parks, who took it back 29 yards to extend Florida 
State’s lead to an insurmountable 21-0. 
“I’m frustrated,” Muschamp said. “More than any-
body sitting in that stadium.”
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.FOOTBALL , from page 1
UF Fo otball16, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2011
