Marching
TogetherAs the Gators sat at 5-2 following a loss to 
UCF, earning a No. 2 seed in the NCAA 
Tournament seemed impossible. 
Florida had just completed a swift and de-
cisive fall from its preseason No. 9 ranking, 
evoking memories of 2008 and 2009 trips to the National Invitation Tournament. 
Despite returning five starters, the Gators re-
sembled a group of strangers, playing in a man-
ner they called selfish and disconnected. 
“We have a bunch of guys on the floor that 
make nobody better,” coach Billy Donovan said on Dec. 1 after losing to UCF. “The older guys 
are less concerned about trying to do some-
thing great collectively as a group and are more 
wrapped up in, ‘What’s going to happen to me?’”
It would have been impossible to fathom 
then, but the answer to “What’s going to hap-
pen?” has been an extraordinary turnaround. 
UF has learned to move the ball better since 
a Dec. 20 loss to Jacksonville, as assists have out-
numbered turnovers by 49, reversing a negative assist-to-turnover ratio they posted to start the season.  
Open players who had gone unnoticed now 
receive the ball, and one-man possessions have been all but eliminated from Florida’s reper -
toire. 
“We’ve got great guys that understand the 
importance of us being a team,” Donovan said earlier this month. “I feel like we’re a connect-ed team. … Our guys are starting to see that, through the unselfishness, now they’re all play-ing better, they’re all scoring more and they’re all being utilized better.”
The Gators have been able to undergo this 
turnaround and lift themselves from a despon-dent group to a legitimate Final Four contender by removing their egos and working together. 
But what truly made the process possible 
were the relationships within the team, which 
are full of emotions that run much deeper than anything on the court. 
“We’re just trying to get as close as we can, 
because for me, Alex [Tyus] and Chandler [Parsons], this is our last year,” senior center 
Vernon Macklin said. “I love these guys, and we 
love being around each other, so why not win 
together?”
Eschewing Expectations
From the 17-year-old freshman all the way 
to the 24-year-old senior, this team understands 
how to operate as one. 
The Gators have players from two countries 
and eight states but still managed to form a co-hesive unit. 
“Our biggest attribute right now is our chem-
istry and how well people play their roles,” 
Parsons said. “There’s no freshman that wants 
to come in here and play 30 minutes and get 20 
points. Everyone understands their role, and 
everyone plays their role perfectly.”
The idea of using balance and understand-
ing each individual’s responsibility was critical to the 2006-07 national championship team. 
Coach Billy Donovan said Al Horford could 
have easily averaged 20 points and 10 rebounds, 
but he gave that up for the good of the team. 
In the same way, freshman center Patric 
Young had to learn that big scoring numbers 
aren’t necessarily in the best interest of the Gators. 
“I realized that I need to do what’s best for 
the team and just give the team energy ,” Young said. “I don’t need to focus on scoring all of these points. I just need to focus on being a great defender.”
The McDonald’s All-American is gifted with 
a rare combination of size and athleticism, but 
he realized he didn’t need to pay attention to 
what NBA Draft scouts were trying to tell him. 
Young averages just 3.3 points per game but 
has been invaluable to the team as a physical de-fensive presence. 
In the same way , Florida’s veterans have had 
to tame their personal expectations to make the 
team better. 
After a strong season culminated in an NCAA 
Tournament appearance in 2010, the starters all 
figured they would see better numbers with an 
extra year of practice and study . 
But Donovan needed each to discover and 
excel in their role, without worrying about who is shooting and scoring. 
Parsons has epitomized that idea. The senior struggled early in the year with the 
expectation that his scoring would increase but 
went on to claim the Southeastern Conference 
Player of the Year award. 
Although he is UF’s third-leading scorer, 
Parsons was selected as the conference’s top 
player by league coaches because of everything 
else he does to help his team win. 
“I was putting a lot of added pressure on 
myself to try and please everybody ,” Parsons 
said. “But lately I’m just trying to let the game come to me and do anything I can to win.”
Joker and the Freak
Between team dinners, practice and shared 
living arrangements, Parsons says the Gators 
are together nearly 24/7. 
While the older players have had at least a 
year to foster this relationship, the freshmen have taken to each other right off the bat. 
The five-man class — Young, Cody Larson, 
Casey Prather, Scottie Wilbekin and Will Yeguete 
— live together in the Springs Complex, where Wilbekin hosts Call of Duty games he and Young frequently dominate. 
“We’re tight as anything,” Young said. “We 
hang around all the time, and we always want to do stuff with each other. We can relate to each other on anything. And the older guys, they’re the same way.”
Young has grown particularly close to 
Macklin, although the two are nearly polar op-
posites. 
Macklin is a wily veteran with a game built 
around finesse and an unstoppable hook shot, 
while Young is an athletic freak who can match 
up with anyone. 
But after a year of facing each other in prac-
tice day after day , those styles have started to 
mesh. 
“V ernon’s experience has really , really helped 
Patric grow,” Donovan said. “V ernon uses his 
skill and his experience, and it drives Patric a 
little nuts sometimes.”
Instead of growing frustrated, Young has 
taken the opportunity to learn patience in the 
post, the importance of playing hard and the 
need to take instruction. 
Macklin has even started to influence Young 
off the court. 
The senior has spent the last two years as the 
team joker, and he believes Young will one day 
follow in his footsteps. 
Macklin does anything he can to keep things 
light, whether it’s making jokes, pulling the bot-tom lace all the way out of Yeguete’s shoe or hid-ing the phones of Adam Allen, Kenny Boynton and Erving Walker. 
“I like to make people laugh,” Macklin said. 
“I’ve spent my whole life just trying to be funny and be goofy. I feel like in basketball sometimes if you go out there and have fun, you’ll be more relaxed and play better.” 
Fed up with Macklin’s practical jokes, in-
cluding fake Twitter posts and text messages, his teammates have started to turn the tables on him. 
But the senior is prepared. “I keep my phone locked, and I keep my 
phone on me,” he said. “They always try , but they’ll never get me.”
As Macklin’s career draws to a close, the 
Gators will have to look to someone else to break up the monotony and relieve the tension. 
That’s where Young comes in. “I think Pat will take it on and be the jokester 
next year,” Macklin said. “Pat is acting like that right now. He plays around and jokes, so I think Pat will be that guy.”
Brotherly Backcourt
The entire team is close, but none are 
closer than the guard tandem of Walker and 
Boynton.  
“He’s like a brother to me,” Walker said. “We do pretty much everything together, 
honestly,” Boynton said. 
The duo became fast friends from the mo-
ment Boynton stepped on campus last season, 
and that friendship grew to the point where they decided to room in the Keys Complex this year, along with sophomore Erik Murphy. 
Boynton estimated he and Walker spend 
92 percent of their time together, parting only 
for class. 
“That’s pretty much the only time we ever 
split,” Boynton said. 
The two eat nearly every meal together 
and usually spend their free time hanging out in their room, watching college hoops or 
catching up on Family Guy.  
Their bond formed early last season, as the 
team’s two leading scorers helped each other 
deal with the ups and downs of streaky shoot-
ing. 
Each seemed capable of going through hot 
streaks and devastating slumps, which made 
it difficult to keep a level head. 
“We just talked about it and tried to help 
each other,” Walker said. “That just brought us closer together.”
That closeness has led to an uncanny level 
of awareness on the court. 
There are times when Boynton makes a 60-
foot pass to seemingly no one, only to have Walker dart in and make the catch. 
“I definitely know where he is at all times,” 
Boynton said.  
Both will be returning to UF next season 
with even more experience and a tighter friendship, something they hope can be a har -
binger of success.
“Anytime you have a bond like that with 
a great player such as him, it makes it easier for me,” Walker said. “And hopefully I make it easier for him. As long as we can keep that bond, I think great things will come.”
The Gators will begin their quest for great-
ness today, when the NCAA Tournament gets underway in Tampa. 
After a slow and disjointed start, Florida 
has found cohesion. 
Their new “all for one” mentality has been 
critical to past success and figures to be equal-ly important going forward. 
“We have great chemistry,” Young said. 
“Really the reason why we’ve been winning so much is our chemistry and how much guys care about each other.”
Whether it’s the brotherly guard tan-
dem or the mentor and pupil in the post, the Gators are filled with relationships strong enough to handle the pressure of the NCAA Tournament. 
With egos removed and a devotion to 
team play firmly in place, only one question remains: Why not win a national champion-ship?Editor Adam Berry   ◗    Cover Photo Illustration Matt Tripp
Alligator, Thursday, March 17, 2011
By GREG LUCA | ALLIGATOR STAFF WRITER
gluca@alligator.orgNCAA Tournament Preview
Familiarity breeds success for UF as Tournament begins
“I love these guys,
— Vernon Macklinso why not win together?”  
Florida senior centerand we love being around each other,
All forOne
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Guards Erving Walker (left) and Kenny Boynton have developed a close relationship on and off the court during their two years as team-
mates at Florida. The roommates are the team’s top two scorers and will look to lead the Gators against UCSB tonight in Tampa. Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Chandler Parsons has embodied the idea of putting the team first this sea-son. He ranks third on UF in scoring but was still named the SEC Player of the Year. 
UF MEN’S BASKETBALL
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
The Gators are no longer content with simply reach-
ing the NCAA Tournament. 
Earning a bid was enough to satisfy them in 2010 fol-
lowing two straight National Invitation Tournament ap-pearances, but this season the team wants more. 
“Last year, we had a whole different mindset,” senior 
forward Chandler Parsons said. “We don’t just want to get in. We want to make noise.”
Second-seeded Florida’s first step will be today at 6:50 
p.m., when it faces off against No. 15 seed California-Santa Barbara at the St. Pete Times Forum in Tampa. 
The Gators (26-7, 13-3 Southeastern Conference) enter 
the contest as a heavy favorite and will have the added benefit of previous tournament experience. 
Sophomore guard Kenny Boynton said Florida entered 
the 2010 Tournament with the wrong mentality, and the team’s mindset will be different this time around. 
“We went in and we got complacent that we were 
in the tournament,” Boynton said. “When we got in the game, we played hard, but I think for us, to prepare, we didn’t prepare the right way.”
Before UF’s 99-92 loss to BYU in Oklahoma City, the 
Gators focused too much on the Cougars and not enough on themselves. 
This season, the team is looking internally, concen-
trating on not turning the ball over and converting on fast breaks, according to Boynton. 
The Gators are also focusing on avoiding the slow 
starts that plagued them in the SEC Tournament, noting that they can’t afford any slip-ups in a situation where one loss ends their season. 
“We’re taking every game like it’s a championship 
game,” Boynton said. “We want to go deep into the 
Tournament.”
That wasn’t the case a season ago, 
when a group that had endured two years of NIT frustration was just happy to make the field of 65. 
Coach Billy Donovan said this sea-
son, on the other hand, has been differ -
ent.
“They wanted to try to experience 
more than they did a year ago,” Donovan said. “None of these guys have won a game in the NCAA Tournament, and I hope that, in itself, is motivation and fuel for them to really be focused.”
Last season’s first-round NCAA Tournament loss was 
especially beneficial because of how the game unfolded. 
In two different instances the Gators were one shot 
away from pulling out the win, but Parsons and Dan Werner missed shots late in regulation and overtime, re-spectively. 
“That really gave us a good experience getting there,” 
Parsons said. “We have a lot better understanding of it this year.”
The Gators also pointed out the need to not let the 
pressure and hype surrounding the Tournament affect the way they perform on the court. 
“It was our first time in the NCAA Tournament, and 
now we’ve got a taste of it,” Boynton said. “You’ve just got to come out and play like it’s a regular game.” Florida looking to make deep tourney run after early exit in 2010 
Boynton
We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 46 THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida coach 
Will Muschamp 
(right) oversaw his 
first spring practice 
Wednesday, happy 
to finally be back 
on the field 
after months of 
recruiting and 
preparation.
See Story, Page 18.
Squirrel attacking residents of Vermont neighborhood
BENNINGTON, Vt. — A V ermont 
neighborhood is being stalked by a renegade 
gray squirrel.
Several people in Bennington say they’ve 
been attacked by a squirrel over the last few weeks.
Kevin McDonald tells the Bennington 
Banner he was shoveling snow when the squirrel jumped onto him. He says he threw the animal off, but it twice jumped back onto him. A game warden says there have been other reports, too.
One woman is being treated for exposure 
to rabies, but Vermont Public Health Vet-erinarian Robert Johnson says there’s never been a case of a squirrel passing rabies to a human.
Johnson says it’s possible the squirrel was 
raised as a pet and lost its fear of humans. He says the squirrel might “go ballistic” when it encounters people it doesn’t recognize.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSpage 9
Sunny
81/48FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 9
CLASSIFIEDS 14
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18
Special to the Alligator
Molly Ammon, left, stands with a friend after her high school gradua-
tion. Ammon was a UF freshman who passed away over Spring Break.
 MOLLY AMMON DIED SUNDAY AT A 
CONDO IN MADEIRA BEACH, WHERE SHE WAS SPENDING SPRING BREAK.
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Family and friends will gather today to bid farewell 
to a UF student who died over Spring Break. 
The funeral for Molly Ammon will be at 10 a.m. at 
Christ the King Catholic Church, 821 S. Dale Mabry 
Highway in Tampa.
Ammon, 19, was found dead Sunday morning in a 
condominium in Madeira Beach, where she was staying during Spring Break.
While an official cause of death has not yet been re-
leased, alcohol is being labeled the cause by those who knew Ammon.
According to an article in the St. Petersburg Times, 
both of Ammon’s parents knew their freshman daugh-ter drank underage and that she had been drinking the 
night before she was found.
When the Ammon family was contacted for com-
ment, Bob Ammon said he was unable to talk because 
he and his family were getting ready for the viewing and wake of his daughter.
Delta Delta Delta President Kelsey Bryant also de-
clined to comment on her deceased sorority sister.
Bryant said she was not comfortable without consent 
from Ammon’s parents and wanted to respect their pri-vacy. Instead, she released a statement on behalf of the sorority expressing the feelings of the sisters.
“There are no words to convey the sorrow we feel 
following the loss of our beloved sister, Molly Am-mon,” the statement said.
Maureen Miller, the coordinator for alcohol and 
other drug prevention at GatorWell Health Promotion Services, said Spring Break has been known for such Funeral today for UF freshman
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida Legislature is no lon-
ger considering a measure March 9 that 
would have allowed students to openly 
carry guns on campus. 
Following a speech by Robert Cowie, 
the father of a girl who was accidentally shot Jan. 9 at an off-campus FSU fraterni-ty house, the controversial measure was pulled from the bill.
“I’m very excited,” Student Body 
President-elect Ben Meyers said. “I can’t 
help but think that Student Government, 
campus police departments and admin-
istrations from across the state had an impact.”
The bill itself now exists as a measure 
to introduce open carry to the state and 
advanced past the Senate Criminal Justice Committee on Monday by a 3-2 vote. 
The campus-carry mea-
sure has been opposed by virtually all governing bodies at UF. President Bernie Machen, Police Chief Linda Stump, the Student Senate and the Faculty Senate have publicly opposed or passed resolu-tions against the bill.
“College campuses, as far as crime 
goes, are very safe places to live and study,” Stump said. “[Faculty and stu-dents] were fearful that guns on cam-pus might change the academic climate, where now they feel free to partake in civil discourse to its fullest extent and not be fearful of somebody having a gun.” 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes indi-
cated it may be too soon to begin making funeral arrangements for the open-carry clause, but it’s not stopping people like Progress Party leader Dave Schneider from celebrating. 
“It’s a victory in that we were able 
to get students from different political orientations to come out and champion safety on campus,” Schneider said.Campus 
gun bill shot down
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
Catholics dress for Mass. Children 
don green for fear of being pinched. A 
beer tanker lurches as its driver unloads 
kegs.
Today marks St. Patrick’s Day, the 
holiday named for the man who, legend has it, escaped slavery, drove snakes 
from Ireland and used vegetation to ex-
plain theological concepts.
David Hackett, a religious-history 
professor at UF, said most Americans, whether they are Catholic, Irish or nei-ther, celebrate the patron saint’s holiday. 
“Those who are more pious see it as 
a way to rededicate themselves to their Irish heritage,” he said. “Those of a more secular vein see it as an opportunity to 
drink green beer.”In  Saint Patrick Interparish School’s 
church on the eastside of town, a group 
of green-clad fourth-graders is leading an 
Irish-themed Mass beginning at 9 a.m.
Every hour, principal Mark Akerman 
will announce a fact about the school’s 
namesake saint. 
“St. Patrick is one of the top saints that 
Catholic schools are named after,” Aker -
man said.
On University Avenue, Mother’s Pub 
and Grill will have a celebration of its 
own. Doors will open at 8 a.m. — the bet-
ter to catch night shift caterers on their way home.St. Patrick’s Day full of traditionsSEE AMMON, p AgE 4
SEE ST. p ATTY’S, p AgE 4Everyone celebrates it differently
“Those of a more secular vein 
see it as an opportunity to   
drink green beer.”
David Hackett
UF religious history professorPublicSafetyNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 46 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Free Yourself: No Photoshop 
Needed
Today, 11 a.m.
Plaza of the AmericasCome experience an event that will inspire confidence and push individuals to be liberated from their negative views of body image, allowing them to truly embrace their beauty.
Females in the Fine Arts
Today, 7:30 p.m.Orange & BrewUF’s Women’s History Month and Students Taking Action 
Against Racism are hosting “We 
Rock the Mic Right.” Women’s History Month is a month de-voted to the accomplishments of women throughout history . This event will showcase the 
work of UF students. Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.
org. Two-Part Panel Discussion: 
The Role of Haitian Creole 
in the School System of 
Post-Earthquake Haiti
Today , 7 p.m. Smathers Library, Room 1A Professors Michel DeGraff of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Flore Zéphir of the University of Missouri will be discussing opportuni-
ties to reform the school sys-
tem in post-earthquake Haiti and the role of the Haitian diaspora in the U.S. MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/57SUNNY
84/60SUNDAY SATURDAY
SUNNY
84/52SUNNY
83/49FRIDAY
SUNNY
81/48
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By DANIELLE ALVAREZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents searching for ways to make their rou-
tines more green can educate themselves by attending the Cin-
ema Verde Environmental Film and Arts Festival. 
The festival, which will run from March 18 to March 27, 
will present 25 environmental films at multiple venues around 
Gainesville such as the Hippodrome Theatre, the Harn Mu-seum and The Venue.
This year’s festival will have additional student partici-
pation from several grade schools of Alachua 
County . Students from kindergarten to 12th grade can participate in art work contests, liter -
ary submissions and conservation projects.
“We have a much larger arts component than last year and 
are expecting for it to be three times bigger,” said Ken McMur -
ry, the festival art director.Trish Riley, an environmental journalist and founder of Go 
Green Nation, partnered with the Hippodrome last year to pro-duce Gainesville’s first environmental film and arts festival.
She said she wanted a small city with less noise and traffic 
for the festival’s location. She picked Gainesville as her target choice because of its sustainable progress.
There are two VIP Access packages. For all 25 films and 
events, it is priced at $100 and to attend 12 films and all other events, it costs $50. General Admission for each film is $5.Festival to showcase films on environmentalism
NewsLocal4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011
cases.
“Realistically, we know Spring Break is a 
high risk period,” Miller said. 
She said there is a culture that surrounds 
Spring Break with drinking, partying and 
large crowds of college students together. 
“Bad things can happen,” she said. “And 
unfortunately they do.”
While UF is infamous for its party im-
age, statistics say otherwise when it comes to heavy drinking. Compared to the national av-
erage “high-risk drinking rate” of 44 percent, UF’s was at 40 percent in fall 2010.
“High-risk” is categorized as more than 
five drinks during one period of time.
Miller said that percentage has been de-
creasing steadily every year for UF.
Miller encouraged all students to look for 
signs of alcohol poisoning because they could potentially save someone’s life.
“It’s OK to say you’ve had too much,” she 
said.Student’s parents knew she drank
AMMON , from page 1Pub is prepared for large crowds
Two months ago the bar’s owner, 
T.J. Goodman, was on the phone with 
his food distributor, planning for to-
day.
On Monday, his order arrived: 
1,000 pounds of shepherd’s pie, 200 pounds of corned beef and two cases of cabbage.
Yesterday morning, he loaded 
his next order out of a diesel tanker 
parked in Alligator Alley: 40 kegs of green beer.
With a packed house by 11 this 
morning, he predicts it will be all gone by 2 a.m. Friday.
Aside from watching Florida bas-
ketball, Goodman has two bagpipers 
on the night’s agenda.
Last year, they were the bar’s cen-
terpiece.
“Everyone stopped,” he said. “Ev-
eryone watched.”
Despite the increased volume of 
customers expected in 
his bar, Goodman said he sees the holiday as more 
than a excuse to booze.
“The bottom line is this: It’s not a 
drinking holiday,” he said. ”It’s the 
average heritage holiday.”ST. PATTY’S , from page 1
StudentLifeTHURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
GAINESVILLE CITY COMMISSIONn STUDENTS WILL INGEST ONLY WATER AND 
GATORADE OR WATER FOR 24 HOURS.
By STYLIANA RESVANIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are encouraged to starve themselves — at least 
for a day.
Starting 6 p.m. Friday, volunteers will vow to ingest noth-
ing but water and Gatorade for 24 hours to raise awareness for 
homelessness and hunger.Jeremy A. Scott, director of the Black Student Union’s Lead-
ership Development Institute, which will host the Fast for Food event, said these issues are more prevalent in Gainesville than 
people think.
“UF gets recognition for athletics and academics,” Scott said. 
“People fail to notice that a couple blocks down on University 
Avenue is where the majority of homeless are.”
The organization will also use Fast for Food as an opportu-
nity to give students a taste of what it’s like to live in poverty.
Students are expected to follow the honor code and promise 
not to eat during the night. They will meet again at 9 a.m. Sat-urday on the Plaza of the Americas to compete in an “Amazing Race”-style scavenger hunt.
They will split into teams and complete tasks around town 
— but they will only be allowed to walk or take the bus to each location.
He said tasks will include participants buying meals, pil-
lows or jackets for homeless people they meet and listening to their stories.
 “You don’t think to do these things when you see the home-
less on the street,” he said. “But these people have struggled, 
and they can’t afford these things like we can.”
The activities are open to both individuals and organiza-
tions. The registration fee is $5 and $25, respectively.Students fast to combat homelessness, hunger
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Few students voted in Tuesday’s 
Gainesville City Commission, but 
history shows this is the norm.
Out of 4,471 voters registered for 
the Reitz Union precinct, 57 voted. 
Past elections haven’t been favor -
able either. In the mayoral election last March, 87 people voted at the Reitz Union precinct out of 4,465 registered voters.
In the November midterm elec-
tion, 804 of 4,709 registered people cast votes.
UF students don’t always think 
of Gainesville as their home because they don’t settle in the town after graduation, said Pam Carpenter, su-pervisor of elections. 
“Sometimes students feel that it 
doesn’t have an impact on them,” she said earlier this month.
Chip Skambis, a 19-year-old UF English major, spent Tuesday trying to get his friends to vote.
Skambis said he voted in Tues-day’s election and the election for 
mayor last year. 
He said most students just don’t 
care about city politics because the 
issues are on a smaller scale. 
“It’s difficult to get people to care 
about the little things,” he said.
Stacy Eichner, president of UF 
College Democrats, said students don’t know when Election Day is.
“Mainly, students are just un-
aware,” she said. “And people don’t see the importance in voting in them.”
But city elections are important, 
Eichner said. She said bus systems are an issue students can relate to.
Carpenter said students are more 
likely to vote in a presidential elec-tion than a city election.
“For whatever reason, students 
are highly involved in the national elections, sort of involved in the gubernatorial and the participation really declines for the city election,” she said. Student voter turnout traditionally low in city elections
“Mainly, students are just 
unaware. And people don’t 
see the importance in    
voting in them.”
Stacy Eichner
president of UF College DemocratsThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Should Florida 
legalize medical marijuana?28% YES72% NO
25 TOTAL VOTESWednesday’s question: Do you think daylight saving time serves a purpose now?Open carry dropped
The Florida Legisla-
ture has abandoned the idea of allowing 
firearms to be carried on college campuses. While the speech made by the fa-ther of an FSU woman who 
was accidentally shot and 
killed may have ostensi-bly changed the minds of legislators, we think it has more to do with the opposi-
tion the lawmakers encoun-
tered. 
Even for the proponents 
who say that open carry on 
campus would be benefi-
cial, the idea still frightens many of the students, facul-ty and staff who live, work and learn on campus.
Perhaps the legislators 
decided that we shouldn’t be constantly worried about our fellow students’ states 
of mental health as we pur -sue higher education. Per -
haps they understood con-
cerns that rates of suicides and stolen guns would 
likely rise if the bill was 
passed with the campus open carry section in tact. Or maybe they knew get-ting blamed for the deaths 
of underclassmen wouldn’t 
make for good press.
Whatever their true rea-
son, removing this contro-
versial aspect of the bill has 
allowed lawmakers to push forward the remaining part of a Florida open carry pro-posal. 
We’re glad to see it 
gone. 
We can think of many 
ways to improve our cam-
pus and the well-being of 
the people on it, but allow-ing for an open carry cer -
tainly isn’t among them.
Going Green
Legal medical marijuana
makes sense
The Editorial Board is pretty straight-laced, no matter 
the preconceptions people have of college newspa-per editors. 
We’re not the crazy, liberal hippies some people make 
us out to be. 
Now that we put this disclaimer out there, we can ap-
prove of the proposed state constitution amendment to 
legalize medical marijuana. Although most people are 
doubtful the proposed change will make it to the ballots in November 2012, we’re not seeing a viable argument against the amendment. 
The author of the bill, state Rep. Jeff Clemens, has 
pointed to Florida’s notoriety as a giant pill mill to argue for legalizing the drug for medical use. 
The dangers of addiction to painkillers such as oxy-
codone are undeniable, and the idea of a safer alternative 
to soothe pain for terminally ill patients is appealing in a 
state with a large senior citizen population.
Obviously we don’t want people to drive or operate 
heavy machinery after using marijuana, but we don’t want those who have taken legal painkillers or alcohol to 
do those things, either.
Beyond the medical benefits of treating patients with a 
nonaddictive drug, we also imagine the state would get an 
economic boost from regulating and taxing it. We’re hav-
ing a tough time seeing the downside. 
Clemens makes a good point, but it will probably go 
unheeded by the Republican-controlled House and Sen-
ate.
Republicans suppress voters, voices
The saying “If you don’t use it, you lose it” does not 
only apply to exercise and health. Recently, it has become applicable to segments of the voting pop-
ulation. Groups known to not vote and those who vote overwhelmingly for Democrats are under fire from Re-
publicans across the country. From New Hampshire to 
Florida, the newly elected Republicans have decided to ignore creating an environment for sustainable economic growth and progress and have focused instead on voter marginalization.
In New Hampshire, Republican legislators created a bill 
that would disenfranchise college students from voting. The bill would “permit students to vote in their college towns only if they or their parents had previously estab-
lished permanent residency there,” claiming it would de-
crease voter fraud. The bill would disenfranchise students from their place of residence and cause the influence of colleges to diminish significantly on a statewide as well as national level, given New Hampshire’s swing state status as home to the nation’s first primary. The best part of the entire movement in New Hampshire had to be when Re-publican House Speaker William O’Brien did something rare for a politician and spoke what he truly felt. O’Brien 
referred to the college students as “foolish” at a prior Tea 
Party gathering and at another time said, “Voting as a lib-eral. That’s what kids do. Students lack life experience; they just vote their feelings.” 
It’s clear to see from the Speaker himself that the whole 
point of the bill was to disenfranchise groups that are most likely to support Democrats rather than combat voter fraud. 
In the states of Wisconsin, Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa, 
North Carolina and Maine, legislatures are aiming to re-strict student turnout as well. The states want to make student IDs from private and state colleges an unaccept-able form of voter identification. The Republicans in these states have not cited any particular reason for the changes. However, it’s clear that the mo-tion is an outright assault to young voters and aims to influ-ence election outcomes. 
Much closer to home, Florida 
Attorney General Pam Bondi and Gov. Rick Scott have decided to repeal the April 2007 reform re-enfranchising nonviolent ex-felons who did their appropriate 
time. Bondi believes these individuals should wait an ad-ditional seven years after they are released before they are even considered to regain their suffrage. Florida would be the only one of three states to deny voting rights to former 
nonviolent felons if Bondi’s plans go into effect. The sys-
tem requires that individuals pay restitution and only then, after case-by-case hearings chaired by the governor and cabinet sitting as the clemency board, can an individual’s voting rights be re-instated. Basically, only the governor’s cabinet can approve individuals’ ability to vote again or decide that they will be disenfranchised for life. Before the streamlining and reduction of bureaucratic measures, the waiting list for all these hearings was well over 100,000. 
Bondi’s measure would prevent the reintegration of these 
individuals and prevent them from becoming contribut-ing members of society solely for immediate political gain. She also contradicts the Republican ideals of having a smaller and more efficient government.
Ultimately, it appears that the newly elected Republican 
legislatures nationwide are more interested in suppressing entire segments of the voting population. They’re increas-ing bureaucratic measures to combat certain demograph-
ics instead of focusing on job growth, economic prosper -
ity and the other affairs they were supposedly elected to 
perform.
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering 
major. His column appears on Thursday. 
Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.org
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
 The gaffe has found its way on 
numerous websites: Michele Bachmann mistakenly con-
fused New Hampshire’s Concord with Massachusetts’, botching his-
tory along the way. She is not alone 
in her personal revisionism: Gov. Ha-
ley Barbour of Mississippi seems to 
have forgotten much of the injustices 
towards African-Americans in the 
history of his state. Mike Huckabee, 
in his own right, seems to have gone 
back in time and placed a young 
Obama in Kenya, where he suppos-
edly learned about the Mau Mau 
Revolution from an anti-British per-
spective.
  Did they simply misspeak? Or is 
there a serious lack of knowledge of historical facts in the Republicans’ 
top crop? And if so, should we be 
worried? My answers would be “no,” “yes” and “absolutely.”
  Maybe this isn’t surprising given 
that many Americans actually don’t have a solid grasp of much of our nation’s past. But, then again, most Americans aren’t running for presi-
dent. We can be forgiving if a pass-ing pedestrian doesn’t know about 
New England’s geography, Missis-
sippi’s racial conﬂ  ict history or basic 
facts about our president’s life. But 
if you’re the president of the United 
States, who needs to know how to 
avoid ﬁ  ghting the wrong wars, how 
to revitalize the economy, how to im-prove education and infrastructure, 
and how to get our nation on the 
right track, you need to understand America’s past. It is imperative that 
our president know what the presi-
dents before them did. Conservatives 
may be furious with the fact that the 
“liberal elite media” is ecstatically 
plastering Bachmann’s, Huckabee’s, 
and Barbour’s gaffes all over the In-
ternet; to note, Conservatives4Palin 
has compared Bachmann’s fallacies with Obama accidentally calling Europe a coun-try — but the analogy doesn’t 
work. While it 
is clear Obama misspoke, we cannot conﬁ  dently state that Bachmann did 
the same. The “lamestream media” 
is right to call her, and other con-
tenders, out. As for Bachmann, she 
should have known the basic facts 
about the Revolution. She was clearly 
using her non-fact to pander to New 
Hampshire voters, so we know that 
she was trying to use the ﬁ  ction to her 
advantage. But it’s essential to prop-
erly understand our nation’s found-
ing. How else can a president best understand a nation’s fundamental 
principles? This problem is especially 
pertinent because she was incorrect-
ly educating voters. Our president 
needs to know the basic facts, and New Hampshire’s residents need to 
know the truth about their legacy. America rests on its foundation — 
let’s not forget what it’s made of, and let’s especially not misconstrue re-alities in order to win votes. The Tea 
Party movement itself is a reference to America’s past. Should it not be 
founded on an accurate understand-
ing of what happened?
  When you look at Barbour, you see 
everything the GOP does not want in 
a mainstream candidate. Though he is 
an effective governor who has served 
Mississippi well over the years, his historical blurring of racial injustic-
es is deeply concerning. In a nation 
with a deep and troubled racial past, injustices are still alive and well. To 
airbrush history is to do injury to not 
just the truth, but also to our society. 
If people forget the mistakes and tri-
als of the past, how can they possibly 
make amends? A president should be 
more responsible, and should have 
the courage to acknowledge mistakes 
and be ready to further equality. The status quo is not enough.  Most unjust, however, may have 
been Huckabee’s dishonest jab at President Obama, claiming that 
Obama was inﬂ  uenced by a child-
hood in Kenya. We know that Obama 
did not grow up in Kenya and barely 
knew his own father. To claim that the 
Mau Mau incident shaped Obama’s 
worldview, and affected his decision to swap a bust of Churchill with a 
bust of Lincoln is rather ridiculous. 
(The bust, by the way, went to anoth-
er room, not back to Britain, accord-
ing to Salon.com’s Steve Kornacki.) Salon.com’s Joan Walsh correctly 
notes that “if he’d traded Lincoln 
for Churchill the same people would 
be attacking him as a snobby Euro-
phile.” Walsh is absolutely right: it is a strange hypocrisy that seeks to de-
rail Obama’s presidency. Republicans 
need to accept the facts that Obama 
was born in the U.S., and grew up 
in Hawaii and Indonesia. Of course, 
for Huckabee to then claim he was 
actually referring to Indonesia is lu-
dicrous. Again, as Walsh notes, there was obviously no Mau Mau Revolu-
tion in Indonesia. And if Huckabee thought there was, then there are se-rious issues with his grasp of history 
— a president needs to understand international history to successfully 
shape international diplomacy.
  America’s president faces an ex-
tremely difﬁ  cult job. He or she needs 
to be someone who knows exactly what is going on today, what went on 
yesterday, and what went on ten, or 
even over a hundred years ago in or-
der to best understand what needs to be done tomorrow. He can’t hesitate; 
he must have his facts right to begin 
with. Imagine if our 45th president 
started a war for the wrong reasons? 
Some feel that has already happened 
once. We can’t afford to let it happen 
again. 
 Humza Bokhari,  Harvard Political 
Review, Harvard U. via UWIRE If the next president doesn’t know history  UWire
  
  We would like to express our condo-
lences to the people of Japan. 
Friday’s earthquake and subse-
quent tsunami have caused an incredible loss of life and extensive damage to many communi-ties in Japan. 
  We represent diverse communities on our 
campus and stand in solidarity with the victims’ families. We extend our condolences to all those 
who have lost a loved one and pray for all those who are still waiting to learn about the status of their 
friends and families. 
We extend our support to outreach efforts 
and aid organizations seeking to minimize the 
damage and to help reunite loved ones in Ja-pan. 
  As student leaders, we call on The Gator Na-
tion to stand together to support our Japanese brothers and sisters the same way we came together for the people of Haiti, who are still 
recovering from their disaster. Please consider 
making a donation to The American Red Cross via their website.
  Together, we can show the rest of the com-
munity and world that we are united in both 
the best and hardest of times. We thank you for 
your support.
  Michael Satyapor, Asian American Student As-
sociation President;   Chelsea Cohen, Jewish Student 
Union President;   Walter Idlette, Black Student 
Union President;   Juan Rodriguez, Hispanic Stu-dent Association President;   Donnie Fields, Pride Student Union President  Student leaders: 
UF community 
can help JapanGuest column
UF Student 
Leaders
Speaking OutHumza Bokhari
UWireBy MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
Shinichi Amano was napping 
with his 3-year-old daughter in his 
Tokyo apartment when the shaking woke him. 
He wasn’t alarmed at first. In 
Japan, earthquakes are a regular oc-currence. 
“I thought it was just a normal 
earthquake. It usually stops after a couple seconds or 10 seconds,” he said.  “But it didn’t stop.” 
As the shaking continued, Ama-
no realized this wasn’t the typical quaking he was accustomed to. 
He woke his daughter, Akari, 
who was sleeping beside him on his bed. He covered her body with his, throwing a blanket over his own body as an extra layer of protection. 
A few dishes fell to the floor. 
Then  the shaking stopped. 
Amano, a Ph.D. candidate at UF 
studying health and human per -
formance, had arrived in Japan on March 8 to visit his wife, Nobuko, and children during Spring Break. 
He had just been picnicking with 
his daughter and the kids at her day care that Friday morning before they returned to their apartment around noon to grab a few hours’ sleep.  
There was no damage to Ama-
no’s apartment, which was in an area of Tokyo that wasn’t hit hard by the 8.9-magnitude earthquake. 
He assumed the same was true 
for the rest of Tokyo but checked the news and saw  devastation in other 
areas of Japan.
He walked over to pick up his 6-year-old son, Wataru, at his day 
care. Wataru and the other children were OK. Afterward, he called his wife, a 
landscape architect who was work-ing at her office when the earth-quake happened. 
Tokyo was one of the cities far -
thest from the earthquake’s origina-tion point at a distance of 234 miles, according to the U.S. Geological Sur -
vey website. 
But many areas of Tokyo were 
still thrown into confusion as public transportation systems shut down and people assessed the damages from the earthquake. His wife, who normally takes a train between her office and her family’s apartment an hour away , found herself unable to 
take her usual route home. 
Upset by the earthquake, she 
borrowed a colleague’s bicycle and 
rode it back to their apartment since the train and bus systems weren’t running. It took her more than two hours to reach home.
Amano returned to UF on Mon-
day but is maintaining close contact 
with his family. Concerns about ra-
diation poisoning from the nuclear power plants within Tokyo led his wife to move with the children to her mother’s home in northwestern Tokyo until the crisis calms down. 
Given the immense damage done 
by the earthquake and tsunamis, he knows it will take time for Japan to 
recover. 
“We are well-prepared for the 
earthquake because we have so 
many earthquakes in Japan (but) this earthquake was beyond our expectations,” he said. “This earth-quake is much more damaging than we expected.”8, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011
Special To the Alligator
Shinichi Amano, left, stands with his family in Tokyo, Japan. Amano, a doctoral student at UF, was visit-
ing family during the recent earthquake and tsunami that devastated parts of the island nation.
UF Ph.D. candidate recounts earthquake in JapanINTERNATIONALtheAvenue         thursday, march 17, 2011
ListThew Aspiring actors: Learn about  
Florida Players’ theater workshop.  
w Out of Gainesville for Spring 
Break? Us too. Read about last 
week’s iPad 2 release.w Fifth Avenue: How to ink fash-
ionablyONLINE:INSIDE:
PG 10: In the spirit of St. Patrick’s 
Day, check out some of the best Irish beers, and get the scoop on the much buzzed-about Guin-ness.PG 12: Are the latest social net-working applications turning us-ers into stalkers? Avenue colum-nist Thomas Nassiff explores the possibility.PG 13: The new Pokemon game has a few new challenges, but the game still encourages gamers to catch ‘em all. Also, relax, and read the Avenue’s next installment in the Gainesville Meditation Guide.
by LAUREN GOLDSEE: Limitless
Watch Bradley Cooper take himself to 
extraordinary places when he takes a pill to become a more perfect version of himself. The thriller, which also stars Rob-ert De Niro, could show that too much of good thing may not be so good.
LISTEN: “E.T.” by Katy Perry 
(feat. Kanye West)
Step into Kanye West’s new fantasy. Katy 
Perry’s vocals sound exactly the same as her other pop hits, but the futuristic vibe it gives off creates an alien-like feel. 
WATCH: Parks and Recreation, 
Thursday at 9:30 p.m. on NBC
If you love “The Office,” you’re sure to love “Parks and Recreation.” In the show, Amy Poehler takes her sense of humor to a small town in Indiana and mocks her way through witty writing and well-exe-
cuted punch lines.
DO: S t. Patrick’s Day festivities
If you needed a specific reason to go 
out in Titletown, know that today is St. Patrick’s Day. And you don’t need to be Irish to celebrate: Wear shamrocks or green gear, and get to your favorite bar tonight. By HANNAH SWERDLOFF 
avenue contributing writer
Locals tired of tapping their toes 
for spring don’t have to wait any lon-
ger: Suwannee Springfest is here.
The 15th annual music and na-
ture festival will take place March 24 to 27 at The Spirit of the Suwan-nee  Music Park in Live Oak, one hour north of Gainesville. 
Students can purchase discount-
ed weekend tickets in advance for $110 with a current student ID, and student tickets are $150 at the gate. 
Springfest features Americana, 
folk and bluegrass music. This year’s lineup consists of The Avett Brothers, the David Grisman Sextet, Jesse McReynolds, Donna the Buf-falo and 54 other performers.People gather to celebrate not 
only the music, but also to cele -
brate each other and life, said Paul Levine, one of the event’s organiz-ers and promoters. 
“People have been coming for 
15 years. A lot of them have met here, got married, had kids and started bringing their kids to Spring-fest,” he said. 
The festival draws about 5,000 
to 6,000 people each year. 
Ori Blitstein, a Grooveshark mar -
keting intern and a music festival junkie, said attendees don’t just consist of college kids who want to party. Rather, several are locals dedicated to the music, he said. 
Also, he said it’s better called a 
gathering than a music festival.
“It’s guys with guitars and wash-
ers and brushes just having a grand ole time on the river,” he said. 
“You’re camping and it happens to 
be a music festival.”
The park, located next to the 
historic Suwannee River, has more than 800 acres of campsites.
“It would be foolish and a waste 
of time not to go,” he said. 
Levine said just because fami-
lies attend doesn’t mean people 
aren’t having a great time and cel-
ebrating. People celebrate with re -
spect. 
He said some go to Bonnaroo 
because about 100,000 people at-tend. But, he said, the experience at a bluegrass festival is different — and in a good way.
“Some of the best music you 
hear is by the campfire,” he said. 
Furthermore, what could set 
Springfest apart from other festivals is that half of the audience brings 
musical instruments. By creating 
an inclusive environment condu -
cive to learning, Levine said, Spring-fest provides attendees an experi-ence unavailable at other shows.  
       The festival also supports re -
gional music by allowing local musi-cians to perform at the park. 
“The amphitheater stage is one 
of the finest places to see music in the world,” Levine said. 
The stage is at the bottom of the 
natural bowl of the amphitheater, and beautiful oak trees with Span-ish moss provide a canopy over the audience.
“With hundreds of people swing-
ing on hammocks between trees 
watching music, it’s a pretty groovy 
environment,” he said. “You’ve got to see it.” Todd Roeth / Alligator
Among a group of 54 performers, bluegrass group The Avett Brothers (pictured here) are set to perform in this year’s Suwannee 
Springfest. The nature and music festival, which draws a crowd of about 5,000 to 6,000 each year, takes place March 24 to 27 
at The Spirit of the Suwannee Music Park in Live Oak, one hour north of Gainesville. To buy tickets, visit suwanneespringfest.org.
Music festival to hit Live Oak next week stomp the yard10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, march 17, 2011
By BENJAMIN EVANS
avenue writer
In 1925, Floyd Collins was trapped in Ken-
tucky’s Sand Cave, and attempts to rescue the 
famous cave explorer drew the attention of the nation. It drew so much attention that tourists from across the United States came in herds to witness the event firsthand.
By the time rescuers reached Collins, the ex-
plorer was dead from exposure and starvation.
This weekend, UF student-run theater group 
Florida Players will perform “Floyd Collins,” a mu -
sical based on the story.
The group, which is funded by UF’s Student 
Government, kicked off the production with a Wednesday night performance and will perform at 7 p.m. tonight, Friday and Saturday in the Squi-
tieri Studio Theater at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts. There will be an additional mati-nee performance at 2 p.m. Saturday. 
“This is one of the largest shows I think we’ve 
ever tried to put together,” said 22-year-old Der -
ek Butts, the show’s director.
Given the recent death of two UF students, 
Grant Lockenbach and Michael Pirie, who died 
in a caving accident in February, some people have questioned the timing of the play’s release, Butts said.
While Butts acknowledges the connection, 
he said Florida Players does not intend to offend the families of Lockenbach and Pirie.
He said the similarity in the stories is coinci-
dental, as “Floyd” has been a year-long pursuit for Butts and the play’s cast.
In fact, to research Col-
lins’ story, Butts and four cast members took a trip to Ken-
tucky to visit the cave, see Col-
lins’ home and visit his grave.
Collins’ caving accident 
has become part of the re-gion’s folklore, said Marissa 
Toogood, who is making her debut with Florida Players in the role of Nellie Collins, Floyd’s sister.
“Everybody knew about Floyd Collins up 
there,” she said.
Taking the trip allowed the actors to connect 
with the tragedy of Collins’ death.
Thaddeus Pearson, who will play Floyd’s 
brother, Homer, said, “It was really awesome to be able to walk around where this legendary man was.”
For more information, visit floridaplayers.org. Theater group to act ‘Floyd’beer
For St. Patrick’s Day: 
An Irish Beer FAQ
By RICHARD O. STEHLI
avenue writer
What is good Irish beer?
Guinness (Draught, Stout or Foreign 
Extra), Harp, or Swithwick’s (pronounced ‘smiddicks’). Granted, all of these beers are owned by the British conglomerate Diageo, but that’s just the cold hard fact of reality. At least they’re brewed in Ireland. Killian’s Irish Red, on the other 
hand, hasn’t been made in Ireland since 
1956. It is owned and brewed by Coors.
What is a Black & Tan?A Black & Tan is a 50/50 mixture of a 
light lager and a stout and is perfect for those who don’t care for dark beer. Do it the Irish way with Harp and Guinness.
How do I make green beer?Put one drop of green food coloring in 
your glass. Insert beer. Consume.
What about Guinness?The plastic thing in a Guinness can 
is a “widget.” When you pop the top of a Guinness Draught, the widget releas-es a shot of nitrogen, which makes for 
smaller bubbles and allows for a richer, 
creamier head. This replicates the way Guinness is traditionally poured on tap. Guinness in Ireland is certainly different from what you drink in the United States. But is it better? It’s hard to say. The al-cohol content is lower, and the beer is less treated to prevent spoilage. Also, Guinness in Ireland would be served 
with a double pour and probably pres-
surized with nitrogen rather than carbon dioxide. A double pour takes two to five minutes and involves two separate kegs of beer.
How about some Irish whiskey?You can’t go wrong with Bushmills or 
Jameson.
How do I make an Irish Car Bomb?
Fill a shot glass most of the way 
with Irish Cream, then top it off with a 
layer of whiskey. Put 12 ounces of Guin-ness in a pint glass. Bomb the shot into the glass and chug. Can’t drink it fast enough? Enjoy your curdled milk, sissy.  
thursday, march 17, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
12, ALLIGATOR uthursday, march 17, 2011
New apps could be breeding status-obsessed stalkers
“You like someone. They’re in a relationship. 
Be the first to know when they get out of it.”  
Mantra for the too-persistent suitor or tag line for 
one of the latest social networking applications?
Maybe it’s both, but in practice, the short and sweet (and  
somewhat creepy) one-liner is the tagline and marketing slo -
gan for Breakup Notifier, an app that enables users to re -
ceive e-mails when select friends change their relationship status.
Within about three days of its activation, Breakup Notifier 
attracted 3.6 million relationships of its own. 
But after that short romance, Facebook disabled the appli-
cation, pulling the plug on a relationship still in its early stages.  
With the influx of demand for the app, why end it?
It turns out that Breakup Notifier was, in fact, too suc-
cessful — it caused too much strain for Facebook’s servers, 
and more important, it attracted too many stalkers.
Because, in essence, that’s exactly what we’ve become 
today: born-and-bred stalkers. College students, along with 
younger and older age groups, display their lives on Face -
book. 
You may say, “Oh, I’m not like most of my friends. 
I’ll check it every once in a while, but a stalker? Not I.”  
   Don’t be so quick to say so.
Let’s take it down to the most simple situation. You sit next to a girl in class, you get to know her, and after a few painstaking lec-tures you finally figure out her last 
name. What do you do? 
You add her on Facebook.
And just like that, you know every -
thing you need to know: You’re cogni-
zant of the fact that she’s single. You 
run a sweep of a few recent statuses, see a few sets of vomit-inducing lyrics from Top 40 radio jingles, and con-
clude that she just ended a messy five-month relationship 
with a John Patterson, who conveniently goes to FSU. Green 
light!
Or, you add her, notice she’s dating someone, 
and — um — add her to your Breakup Notifier list? Of 
course the app is dead now, so that’s not a possibility.  
    But that specific app is just part of a wave of conclusive 
evidence of America’s obvious stalker-like nature.
Chevrolet also recently introduced a new application in 
its Cruze model that reads live-time status updates from the 
driver’s personal Facebook news feed.
That’s right: You just finished a long, hard day of work, 
you’re driving home to spend the night watching old episodes 
of “Hey Arnold” on Netflix with your cat, but first you need to know what all of your friends have been saying since you last checked your Facebook for iPhone app 15 minutes ago.
Luckily, the all-new Chevy Cruze lets you do it hands-
free.
America, our problem isn’t that we’re stalkers — it’s that 
everyone knows we are. 
People and companies spend their time and money mak -
ing applications, widgets and gadgets that feed our inner stalker because they know we’ll not only use them but will absolutely devour them. 
It’s not just that Internet-based stalking has taken off to a 
whole new level, but that enough people realize it that busi -
nesses have begun to cash in on the phenomenon. 
So, after all the sarcasm and rhetoric, I’ll bet that you, 
reader, think I’m completely against this social networking and stalking stuff. 
Well, that’s not the case — well, not entirely at least.The truth is, America’s shift toward being nosy isn’t a 
good or bad thing. It just is what it is. 
Yes, maybe I think the general population has gone a tad 
overboard with it all. But, at the end of the day, it’s not any -
thing that’s going to change soon.
And I, like everyone else, will be keeping an eye out for 
the tweets and Tumblogs and status updates to surface about the next big Facebook app. Thomas Nassiff
Columnist
facebook
   Although it’s no longer the cultural phenomenon it once was, 
Pokemon is still part of, and really never left, the video game world. What was once the crown jewel of the Game Boy is 
now the highest selling Nintendo DS franchise of all time. The car-toons are still airing every Saturday (albeit the new seasons are not 
nearly as good as they used to be when we were kids), and Pikachu 
is a character recognized by the entire world on par with Mario him-self. There have been four generations of Pokemon games since Red and Blue Version divided playgrounds nationwide, with a few remakes and spinoffs here and there, and now it’s time for a new one.
  Pokemon Black & White, the ﬁ  fth generation of the franchise, 
has the most changes out of any proper Pokemon game thus far. Some of the changes are cosmetic and a bit unnecessary, but 
most of them are for the better. 
  The most noticeable change as you progress on your journey 
to become Pokemon champion is that there are no older Poke-
mon around, just the newest batch of 156 Pokemon waiting to be captured. The older generations become available after you beat the main story, but it can get boring catching Pokemon after Pokemon just to complete the full Pokedex if you’re starting from scratch. If you’ve fol-
lowed each generation, then you can sim-
ply import them from past games. If you manage to collect all 649 Pokemon, you’re a braver man than I.
  That being said, it will probably take you 
less time to catch ‘em all, as battles have 
been expedited by a signiﬁ  cant amount. While the need to grind is still there — especially when you get to a certain gym leader who uses mean electric-type ﬂ  ying squirrels — the time sink is not as 
bad as it used to be.
  Developers have also added to the game new types of Poke-
mon battles. Triple Battles are a three-on-three match that limit 
attacking based on position, and Rotation Battles are fast-paced round-robin matches. These types are few and far between, but they require the use of tactics and quick thinking that is refresh-ing.
  Aside from a few cheap bosses, the game is pretty easy, so 
Poketots won’t get discouraged. However, Nintendo tries to inject 
some maturity into the franchise through Team Plasma, Unova’s 
resident bad guys. Instead of following in Team Rocket’s footsteps of stealing Pokemon to take over the world, Team Plasma wants to free Pokemon from what they see as servitude from their trainers. 
  All in all, this is probably the most modern Pokemon game  
recently. The graphics have been overhauled since the franchise came to the DS, new dynamic camera movements have been added and the Pokemon sprites have been made animated during battles. This iteration of Pokemon almost feels like a new franchise 
— one that’s becoming more in tune with its RPG qualities as its 
fan base continues to age. If you’ve been away from the series for a while, I suggest you give Black & White a try. If you’ve already caught them all again and again, there’s still plenty more to catch. thursday, march 17, 2011   ALLIGATOR, 13
Gainesville Meditation Guide: at the Hare Krishna House 
  By ROBERT IMFELD
 avenue contributing writer
  Every day, the Hare Krishnas chant 
a melodic meditation and serve food 
to students in UF’s Plaza of the Ameri-cas. A decent number of students usu-ally line up — especially on Spaghetti Wednesdays — but no one seems to know much about the people who serve the vegetarian-friendly fare.
    An hour and a half before the sun 
rises, the Hare Krishnas gather for meditation, called japa, in the temple 
of the Krishna House, just off campus 
on Northwest 14th Street. 
   They recite their mantra with the 
help of Japa Mala beads, a strand of beads — not unlike the rosary — that helps devotees keep track of their chanting. Each strand has 108 beads, one for each time they chant to Krishna, and they do it 16 times. That 
means every morning, they recite the 
mantra 1,728 times.
  They believe the god Krishna and his name are one and the same. 
  “When you chant Hare Krishna, 
you’re actually associating with God through his name,” said Caitanya, a devotee who’s been chanting for 19 years.
    They also serve Krishna through 
cooking and cleaning.
  They devote themselves so strin-
gently because they believe the ma-
terial energies of the world cover the 
spiritual soul, effectively blocking them from being one with Krishna. They have their sights set on a higher 
plane.
  “If you want to really feel free in 
the material world, you refrain from 
activities that bind you to the material world,” Caitanya said.
  They use the material energy in 
his service to prevent becoming en-tangled in the material life. The van they use, for example, is used to serve 
Krishna food to other people instead 
of being used as, say, a way to get to a party. And because the food is served with love and devotion, it’s karma-free, 
as the side of the van reads.
    Even if you don’t wish to wake at 
4 a.m. to chant, Caitanya said non-
devotees can still reap the beneﬁ  ts of the Krishna beliefs.
  “We just encourage people to 
chant the holy name and take Krishna lunch,” she said. “By doing that, the puriﬁ  cation of the heart happens, and 
then, automatically, everything else 
that doesn’t help them in their spiri-tual life melts away.” 
Gamer Bait
   A
lthough it’s no longer the cultural phenomenon it once was, 
Gamer Bait
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistPokemon still urges gamers to catch ‘em all
wellness Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , MARCH 17, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445  per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
THE LANDINGS.
2/2.5 Townhomes
3/3 & 4/4 Flats
Call us at 352-336-3838!
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409 ***
Ask about our Apple TV  special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    4-20-42-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.Avail. 8/15$900/mo. call 877-833-2865   3-25-11-10-1Bellaproperties.net
Quiet Graduate Community
Luxury,Spacious 2/2 and 2/1 with loft/Must 
See/Starting at $283/Bedroom/Available 
August 2011/Call Today (352) 335-5424    
3-17-11-4-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Furnished 4bedroom4bath condo,W/D/
Dishwasher for 2011-2012 starting Aug16 
1/2mi from UF on bus route, 3800 SW 20th 
Ave between UF and Butler Plaza $325/mo 
++ per student 352-586-6468   3-29-11-10-1
Looking 4 nice female roommate
Asking $405/mo util/cable incl.
Call Gloria @ 4075723637. No 
smokers,alcohol,overnight guests 
or pets please. 2B/2BA!   3-18-11-3-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING!!
SPACIOUS 1050 Sqft 2BDR
ONLY $299/BED
www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!
·         Available NOW and August!
·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
4-20-11-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com4-20-10-70-2BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 15
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    3-24-11-40-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-
11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-25-11-22-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   5-10-11-34-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
3-18-11-10-2
3BR/2BA, 1940sq.ft. Quiet neighborhood. 
1.5 miles from U.F. Large fenced yard, wood floors, 2 car garage, and sun room. Available 5/1. $1100/month. 3936 SW 3rd Ave. 352-359-1270    3-25-11-15-2
Large 1/1 in quiet neighborhood next to Oaks Mall. Walk to shops, bus routes, cafes. Screened porch, lots of storage. Move in by 4/1 get one month free. 1 yr lease minimum. Discount for longer leases. Rent $500/mo. call 305-992-2832 or pazos.lu@gmail.com   3-22-11-10-21BR/1BA, 5 blocks from Shands & UF. Quiet 
complex, parking, walk-in closet, W/D. $550/
mo. Call 317-2642 or 371-9520    3-23-11-
10-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts
3 BLKS TO UF & Downtown!
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms, Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.
Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo $600 Deposit
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
216 SW 12th Street.
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit
3-31-11-15-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.    3-31-15-2
*March Madness!*
Luxury 2/2s for Fall
College Park--across from UF!
Starting @ $550/room
Sign w/in 48 hrs, Waive leasing fee!
352-371-7777
3-31-11-13-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566    3-22-11-6-2
MIDTOWN - WALK TO CLASS
●2BR/1BA, privacy fence, screened porch$700/$350 each ●1BR avail now $450/mo.
Call 352-335-4790 or 352-214-3369    3-22-11-5-2
3 Bed House
$695/mo w/Porch & Walk to UF
Great Deal, Won't last long!
photos at rentalworkshop.com
352-226-3535 and 813-347-9379
3-22-11-5-2
1700 sq ft 3BR/2BA House
Wood floors, large screened-in back porch, 
jacuzzi, W/D, corner lot $1400/mo Call  (352) 258-9116 to see. Available Aug 1st.3-22-11-5-2
HUGE 1 BR apt for quiet mature person 
Dine-in kitchen, carport space, largeenclosed patio, utilities - cable - internetincluded, no pets. $750 2046 NW 14th Ave395-6250 or 332-1429 Kathy    3-29-11-10-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, close to campus, all appliances, W/D,hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-5-11-15-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1325 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-5-11-15-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-5-11-15-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39373-22-5-2FEMALE ROOMMATE to rent bedroom in 3/2 
beautifully updated condo in quiet, attractive 
development, w/d included. Convenient to 
bus route. $375/mo + 1/3 utilities. (727)743-
2694 Avail August    3-17-11-2-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2
2/1 Across from VA Hospital.
$550/mo. $300 dep. No dogs, cats ok w/ 
$100 one time pet fee. 352-634-5175    3-22-11-5-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
4-20-10-26-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-30-11-10-2
3bedroom $509
Amazing townhome with everything included! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-2801   4-20-25-2
3bedroom $509
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2
Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-11-20-25
UF 7 blks, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL, HOT 
TUB, 2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park, responsible students or professionals only.  Plasma TV incl. May-Aug $1775/mo; $2375/mo Aug on. Summer only option or yr lease. 352-222-02113-23-11-5-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
After Spring Break,
there are less than 6 weeks 
left in the semester!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$325 Summer Sublease May-July for 
Gainesville Place Apartments.1/1 in a 4/4, Comes fully furnished with washer and dryer, utilities included $325! Many bus routes.allison.lynch@yahoo.com    3-21-11-7-3$729/mo new arlington square summer-sub -
lease may1-aug15 spacious studio, cable/
internet, washer/dryer, furnished, contact 
Steve 754.264.9500
melvin_flynt_01@yahoo.com    3-22-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Roommate wanted $400. 3/2
Grad student preferred. Quiet Lakefront 
house. 1/2 utilities. 352-281-2200 or 
Welchds1@bellsouth.net   3-17-11-5-4
Roommate wanted
New 2/2.5 Fully Furnished except for bed-
room in Grantwood Condominiums 2.5 miles 
from UF
$550/month includes utilites & WiFi
Contact Kourtney 352-422-1448    3-25-10-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.
3-29-10-4
Master Bd/priv. bath in 2/2 apt. $475 all 
inclusive. Furnished, easy commute to UF, W/D. Get $25 off rent. w/ 12mo lease.Call/Txt Angie (786)239-2740angie.colombia_86@yahoo.com3-22-5-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 727-726-2915    3-22-11-5-4HANDYMAN SPECIAL Share 2BR/2BA MH 
in Hidden Oaks. Furn rm incl elec, ph, cable, 
internet. Close to UF, bus, shopping. $200 
NR dep. $400/mo. NS, NA, ND. Handyman 
can work off most. Caged pets ok. 331-0762    
3-22-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
1997 3br/2ba Fleetwood mobile home. 
Located in Whitney Park on hwy 411 in 
Gainesville. Carpet and appliances less than 
2yrs old. $18,500. call 352-327-5986 leave 
message.    3-18-11-5-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
16, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
3-31-10-38-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $199995 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-1298 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...
Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!
Call Gary at 352-682-8838,
email dlimotors@yahoo.com orstop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      3-25-11-70-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night 
camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   4-20-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-25-11-21-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
Great deal!
Brand new home, perfect for college student, 
quiet community. 3 bed, two bath. Wont last. 699/mo Call 904-992-0141    3-18-11-10-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Lifeguard-Certification Required$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.State Mental Hlth Treatment FacCall Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-18-14
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 17
The Village, an upscale retirement commu-
nity, is seeking a full-time Nurse Manager. 
The ideal candidate will have the following 
skills / experience:
- Current and valid license in the State of 
Florida as an RN
- Experience with Memory Support
- One to three years experience in a geriatric 
setting
- One to three years management experi -
ence
- Excellent interpersonal skills
-Please see www.thevillageonline.com/jobs 
for more information!      3-28-11-14-14
CARE GIVER needed for Autistic 24 year 
old man. $12-$14 per hour Experience or 
training with special needs a plus. Email 
oc4444@bellsouth.net or fax to 352 371 
3320    3-18-11-5-14
Web Design Internship
in busy marketing department
$10 hr. & monthly travel stipend
Ocala, Florida
352.291.4537 ext. 7444
human_resources@otowfl.com
DFWP/EOE
3-18-11-5-14P/T babysitter wanted for fun 2 yr old, now 
through fall. $12/hr, refs/resume required. 
Must have reliable transportation have expe-
rience with kids under 3, patience, creativity. 
Email nannyforfam@gmail.com.    3-18-11-
5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing students 
to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales 
from May – July. Approx. 20 hrs a week, 
$10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours 
and evenings plus free meals! Must en-
joy interacting with others in a professional 
manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, 
customer service or volunteer experiences a 
plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com   
3-17-4-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office.
Experience preferred.Email resume to: snpohani@gmail.com     3-21-11-5-14
Love writing? Looking for writers for origi-
nal articles & product descriptions for 
multiple IT websites. Earn up to $150-$300/
wk from your location. Must have excellent 
grammar & writing skills. 626-602-5254
4-12-11-20-14
Remedy Staffing now offers Free Video 
Resumes. Add to you Facebook profile, 
Linkedin and many other social sites.
Call 672.6080 x-3 or email
stephenw@remedystaff.com to schedule.
4-12-11-20-4Bookkeeper - PT for immigration law firm. 
5-10 hrs/wk. Proficient in Quick Books Pro.
1 yr commitment. Resumes to
robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.
3-22-11-5-14
Receptionist - PT for immigration law firm. 
28 hrs/wk. Bilingual Spanish-Engl a plus. 
Proficient in MS Office. 1 yr commitment. 
Resumes to robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.
3-22-11-5-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
Horse experience?  
Volunteers needed for horse/barn care as 
our therapy program grows. 
Kaley1999@aol. com (352) 494-1714
3-21-11-4-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi -
cated people who love working with children. 
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA 
in education. Benefits available with FT. 
Call 377-2290 or 373-1481       3-22-11-5-14
Hairdresser needed at Headlines
in Thornebrook Village. Take over clientel 
and handle walk-ins. Come by or call Jane at 
375-7833 for more information.
3-22-11-5-14
VIDEO SPECIALIST wanted at the University 
of Florida Center for Instructional Technology 
and Training. Video position requires exper-
tise with sound, video and lighting equipment 
as well as Adobe Premiere. Position is full 
time and future Teams position is possible. Pay starts at $15.00 per hour. standik@ufl.
edu, online application at http://www.citt.ufl.
edu/employment.php.              3-22-11-5-14
F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, 
salary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 352-371-4000.                       3-31-11-12-14
Beginning Tennis Instructor (part time), 
starting in April. $30 per hr, $15 each hr af-terwards. 15 minutes from campus. Email resume to nannyforfam@gmail.com.   3-22-11-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT 15-40 hrs/wk - M-F, 
9am-6pm. $7.25/hr. Excellent Word, typing, internet & Excel skills. Indicate available hours, major, graduating semester.OMA.office@yahoo.com   3-18-11-3-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    3-29-11-10-14
PT/FT PINCH-A-PENNY Retail Associate
Florida's largest retail pool supply store is seeking upbeat, motivated, charismatic indi -
viduals to join their crew! This individual must have flexible work hours within the week, in-cluding and not limited to the weekends, and holidays etc. Customer service is a given, and pool knowledge is a plus! Individuals must be able to lift 40lbs, punctual, & 18 years or older.  352-332-2933    3-22-11-5-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
PT NANNY needed M-F start by MAR 28;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk; travel w/ mom;3yr old / 10 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    3-23-11-5-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF studentsGatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.      3-18-11-5-16
Internal Medicine doctors at the University of Florida are currently looking for people with poorly controlled Type 2 (adult onset) 
diabetes who may also have low Vitamin D 
level for a clinical study. The study will look 
at the effect of Vitamin D replacement on im-
proving your diabetes control. Study-related medical care and monetary compensa -
tion may be provided for your time. Please 
contact Karen Brezner at     352-273-8661.                        
3-30-11-11-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.com
then call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, Natz, H1B Visas
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
(904) 425-8078
4-4-14-18
Casting call for feature film: The Best 
Western Gateway Grand at the Northwest quadrant of the intersection of I-75 and exit 390. April 2nd, 9am - 4pm. Please visitwww.SwampTales.us for more information.4-1-11-13-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42x
Any info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-
11-30-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696
3-31-20-15
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
CPR training is back!Need CPR/AED or 1st Aid?Meets internship requirementsFloridaHeartsaver.org(352)575-0119                        4-8-20-16
Sports
THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
 
After months of anticipation 
and plentiful talk about the tran-
sition, Will Muschamp oversaw 
his first practice as Florida’s head coach.
The Gators opened their spring 
practice season Wednesday af-ternoon, and Muschamp said it was used mostly to teach players the new offensive and defensive systems, as well as a few special 
teams tweaks.
“We do believe in the theory of 
throwing a lot at them and find-
ing out who can learn and who 
can adjust, how long does that 
take, who can make adjustments on the run,” Muschamp said. “We’re able to throw a lot at them and see who’s able to retain and 
handle the information — expose 
them to as much as we can.”
Muschamp said each of the 
three quarterbacks on the depth 
chart — John Brantley, Tyler Mur -
phy and Jeff Driskel — took reps 
with all three units Wednesday.
All of Florida’s spring prac-
tices are closed to the public and the media, but Muschamp said he only had three players sit out Wednesday due to injury. 
The Gators had seven players 
listed as “limited” before practice, but Muschamp said they all were able to take a few reps on the field 
in the team’s first session.
“When they get close to foot-
ball and playing, they all get 
well,” Muschamp said. “It’s amazing how that happens. 
“Our trainer rides in on his 
white horse, and they all of a sud-den get well. It’s phenomenal. I wish we could discover that med-
icine before practice started.”
JENKINS SITTING OUT AFTER SUR -
GERY: Senior cornerback Janoris 
Jenkins will not participate in the 
team’s spring season after having reconstructive shoulder surgery in the offseason.
Jenkins, who had 44 tack-
les and three interceptions last 
season, surprised many people with his decision to return to the Gators instead of jumping to the 
NFL. 
Muschamp said much of that 
choice was based on his inability 
ONLINE BRACKET CHALLENGE SEC BASKETBALL COACHING NEWS
n Registration ends at noon today, so hurry up and fill 
out your brackets at alligator.org/bracket_2011. The 
grand prize is a $500 Best Buy gift card, and anyone who beats sports editor Adam Berry is eligible for a $100 Gator City gift card.n Tennessee coach Bruce Pearl may not be with 
the Volunteers next season, according to multiple reports. UT athletic director Mike Hamilton told a Knoxville, Tenn., radio station, “The jury is out on what’s going to happen with that at this point.”n Follow alligatorSports basketball writer Greg Luca 
on Twitter at twitter.com/alligatorSports. Greg will be providing updates from Tampa throughout the day, in -
cluding random musings, basketball analysis and live posts from the Florida-UCSB game at 6:50 p.m.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Will Muschamp, standing between former UF coach Urban Meyer and New England Patri -
ots coach Bill Belichick, ran his first spring practice with the Gators on Wednesday afternoon.
UF FOOTBALLMuschamp, Gators open spring practice season
 
Note: The following column is not meant in 
any way to disrespect women. It may seem to address only men, but this is because the columnist wishes to follow the format laid 
out in the Holy Bible. By “man,” he means 
“any human being who partakes in awesome things.” If, by chance, you are a single woman who happens to fall in that category, do not hesitate to e-mail the columnist. He is free this weekend.  
Among the American male population — a very distinct subculture, I under -
stand — only a few holidays are cel-
ebrated. Because of that, today is a rare treat, perhaps the rarest to any man who enjoys 
the following: basketball, beer, recklessness, 
self-indulgence, beer, running amok, green beer, irrationality, more beer, fun.
To take full advantage of today’s festivi-
ties, you no doubt have put your bracket in a pool with friends. If you don’t mind tak-ing a few minutes, you can use today as a teaching tool. You see, your bracket is 
an objective measure 
of exactly what type of person you are. The same can be said about looking at your friends’ brackets.
To understand yourself, or your friends, 
ask yourself exactly why you picked certain teams to win. “Because they are the better 
team,” you say. But are they? Think about 
it.
You rode the highest seeds: You are 
conservative, and you should be. You come from an upper-middle class home. You What your bracket says about you
 THE CHAMPIONSHIP MEET BE -
GINS TODAY IN AUSTIN, TEXAS. 
By MELISSA PENDER 
Alligator Writer
 
Although Florida isn’t picked to 
win the NCAA Swimming and Diving 
Championships this weekend, coach 
Gregg Troy said the 14 women who qualified for the event are determined to defend their title.
“(We’re) not the favorite, but we 
haven’t been the favorite in the past either, so the girls kind of relish in that role,” he said. “We’ve looked good the last couple of weeks.”
Troy said freshmen Elizabeth Bei-
sel and Hilda Luthersdottir will play a huge role in the team’s fate at the meet, which is in Austin, Texas, today through Saturday.
“Even though they are freshmen, 
they have a lot of experience,” he said. “They do have to step up. The biggest 
challenge for them is you’ve got to swim well in the morning at the NCAA meet.”
Troy said the 
Gators will also lean  
on the squad’s elders to provide lead-ership. That includes diver Monica Dodson, the squad’s lone senior, as well as juniors Teresa Crippen and 
past NCAA champions Sarah Bateman 
and Shara Stafford.
Crippen, who will swim three in-
dividual events and one relay, won’t UF taking underdog 
role into NCAA meet
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @iam_tyler
SwimmingSEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 19
SEE SWIM, PAGE 19SEE TYLER, PAGE 19THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
study something not because it interests you but because it will 
lead to a steady career: law, business management, informa-tion technology, etc. You find risk interesting, but the reward is never worth it. You drive a V olvo. You listen to top-40 radio, music with a simple, catchy hook. You want to meet your fu-
ture wife at work and get married at 25.
You picked three first-round upsets and have a 12-seed in 
the Sweet 16: You pride yourself in appearing sophisticated. 
You read the New Yorker. You are majoring in a foreign lan-
guage and when people ask why , you explain, “Because I want to.” You will live out of the country for a few years after college before settling down. You have a beard.
You put Indiana State in the Elite Eight: You like funda-
mentals, farm towns and underdogs. You like players who 
are stereotyped as “hustlers” and “gym rats.” You wear flan-
nel, but not because indie rock stars do. You are Larry Bird.
You picked a 16-seed to win the first round: You went to 
Bonaroo last summer, but only because you heard it’s a good 
place to find drugs. You were planning to get your degree, but then you decided not to. You spent last summer working at a hostel in Spain because the owner let you sleep on the floor for labor. Your friends only hang out with you when looking to blow off steam. You are what some people call “an alcoholic.” 
You picked Duke to win the national championship: You 
wake up in the morning, look at yourself in the mirror and say , “I wish I had friends.”TYLER , from page 18WR Hammond back on scholarship
to work out at the NFL Combine 
or for pro scouts. Jenkins got out of his shoulder sling just two 
weeks ago. 
“There is no contact,” Mus-
champ said. “He felt like he 
could help the situation by com-
ing back and getting his shoulder healthy.”
HAMMOND BACK ON SCHOLAR -
SHIP: Muschamp 
said Frankie Ham-mond Jr. is once again playing on scholarship for UF 
after having his re-
voked last season.
The redshirt junior wide re-ceiver was arrested last summer 
for driving under the influence 
but returned to the team follow-
ing a two-game suspension, al-beit without a scholarship.
Hammond, listed as a starting 
wide receiver on the preseason depth chart, caught 22 passes for 276 yards and two touchdowns in 11 games last year.FOOTBALL , from page 18
Gators relying on relays to help carry team
compete on the first day of the competition and has 
to do in two days what the other swimmers hope to do in three.
“She’s got to be tough with the way she goes 
about it, but there’s no one more articulate with the way they train,” Troy said.
Crippen will swim in the 800-yard freestyle relay, 
one of Florida’s four qualified relays. Troy said the success of the relays is key for the team, which has placed in the top 10 the past 10 years, to bring home a win.
“This is the first time this season we’ve had ev-eryone healthy,” he said. “Hopefully our relays are going to be a little better, and it will be real key for 
us.”
Troy said he expects the major 
contenders to be No. 3 Stanford, 
No. 2 California and No. 1 Georgia, 
the team that narrowly beat the No. 
7 Gators at the Southeastern Con-ference Championships last month.
“They all look good on pa-
per, but fortunately the meet isn’t 
swum on paper,” he said. “And 
then there’s another eight to 10 teams that are all in 
the mix, and we’re certainly one of those.”SWIM , from page 18Football
Troy
20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011
UF SOFTBALL
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
No one was going to get Kelsey 
Bruder out Wednesday. 
After hitting the ball hard, 
but often into defenders’ gloves, 
the past few series, Bruder broke 
through with six hits, six runs and 
nine RBIs in the No. 2 Gators’ pair of wins against Mississippi State. 
Although she missed the cy-
cle by only a triple, Bruder went a perfect 4 for 4 in the second game, raising her average to .395.  
The senior blasted two home runs, including a three-run shot as UF (27-1, 4-0 Southeastern Confer -
ence) dismantled the Bulldogs (12-14, 2-2 SEC) 18-1 in Game 2. 
“It’s really hard not to get 
down on yourself when you think you’re hitting the ball well,” she said. “You just got to keep push-ing along. I’m not fast enough for a triple, so I think this is one of my better days.” 
Florida’s power stroke didn’t 
stop with Bruder, as senior Me-gan Bush and sophomore Brittany Schutte launched home runs of their own. 
In UF’s 8-0 Game 1 victory, 
Bush smashed a ball for her second grand slam of the season. 
After getting pitched around 
early on, Schutte slammed a three-
run homer as 
part of her five-RBI effort in the second game. 
It was also 
an encouraging afternoon for 
freshman third 
baseman Kasey Fagan, who had 
a solid day defensively and at the plate. 
After coming to UF as one of 
the top high school players in the nation, she hasn’t made as many 
flashy plays as some expected. 
But Fagan showed some seri-
ous glove skills with an acrobatic 
diving catch on a sharply hit ball to her right. She also knocked down a ball and flipped it to shortstop Cheyenne Coyle, who was cover -
ing third base. 
She broke out of a 1-for-15 
slump with two hard-hit RBI sin-gles. 
While she hasn’t been consis -
tent at the plate, she has stepped up when it counts. 
“She’s hitting really well in SEC 
play,” UF coach Tim Walton said. “Defensively, she hadn’t made those plays for us yet, but she did a good job.” 
Freshman Hannah Rogers con-
tinued to dominate, picking up 
two more wins to improve to 13-1.
The young righty needed only 
53 pitches to get through Game 1 
and threw 36 in four shutout in-nings in Game 2. 
With a 0.51 earned run average, 
Rogers has matched senior Stepha-nie Brombacher pitch for pitch. 
“Hannah’s amazing,” Bruder 
said. “She’s pitching well beyond her years. We’re lucky to have her.”
Bruder launches two homers in doubleheader sweep
n THE NO. 13 FLORIDA MEN’S TEAM 
WILL TAKE ON NO. 3 USC TODAY.
By THOMAS NASSIFF 
Alligator Writer
 
When Alexandre Lacroix arrived at Florida 
four years ago, he came in with the burden of 
expectations on his shoulders.
But in his time as a Gator, Lacroix has suc-
cessfully dealt with the pressure of being a 
highly sought recruit en route to transcending 
greatness in Florida tennis history.
Last week, he notched two major career-
spanning milestones in Florida’s 6-1 drubbing of then-No. 35 Alabama. 
He became the winningest doubles play-er in UF history, as he and partner Sekou Bangoura Jr. beat Alabama’s duo of Ricky Do-verspike and Jarryd Botha to give Lacroix his 
94th doubles victory.
Later in the match, Lacroix toppled Do-
verspike in straight sets for his 100th career 
singles win.
Reaching those milestones boosted Lacroix 
to being named the Southeastern Conference’s Player of the Week on Wednesday.
While the numbers carry an impressive 
weight, Lacroix’s work ethic and journey to his 
current success has made his career special.
Coach Andy Jackson said Lacroix came to 
Florida as an unpolished doubles player, mak-
ing his achievement even more remarkable.
“Alex has really taught himself how to play 
doubles here,” Jackson said. “We want young-er guys who are learning to play doubles to see that the guy who won more matches at Florida ... didn’t come in as a fantastic doubles player in juniors, but learned to play as time went on.”
Looking back at his earlier years, Lacroix 
said the hardest part of learning the doubles 
game was adapting the singles play he honed during junior 
tennis.
“It shows that after a few 
years, you can play anything 
even if you’re not tall or you 
can’t volley well at first,” he said. “It means a lot to have that record.”
While his hard work brought out the best 
of Lacroix on the doubles court, he has always been known for his dominance in singles.Currently ranked No. 6 in the ITA singles 
rankings, Lacroix is an intimidating opponent, and he has proven himself against the top players in the nation throughout his career at Florida.
With the No. 13 Gators (11-3, 4-0 SEC) a 
third of the way through their SEC slate, La-croix will need to keep piling up the wins to help Florida stay competitive.
The Gators will get one of its toughest tests 
of the year today , as they host No. 3 USC, the two-time defending national champion.
“It’s important for our guys to not be im-
pressed by Southern California,” Lacroix said. “They’re a talented team with great players from top to bottom, but if we give the same ef-fort that we have been all season we can have a chance.” Lacroix secures place in UF history with recent accoladesBruder
Tennis THE FRESHMAN HAS DEALT WITH ANKLE, 
SHOULDER AND BACK PROBLEMS THIS YEAR.
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
 
Numbness shot from her neck and tingled down to her fin-
gers. 
Despite the pain, freshman Brittney Noble told her coaches, 
“I can do this. I can do it. I can push through.” 
They told her, “Absolutely not.” She had to see a specialist. 
That’s when the truth hit. Hard. 
After dealing with a slew of injuries including those in her 
ankle, shoulder and back, Noble learned a week ago her gym-nastics career is likely over. 
She has a disc in her back pressing on her spine — damage 
that coach Rhonda Faehn said is so severe she doesn’t expect her return to competition for the Gators. 
“My heart just breaks for her because I know how talented 
she is,” Faehn said. “However, her body is just not kind to her. 
It’s something that’s very , very serious, and this is very difficult 
for her. She’s going to have to go through a grieving process.”
Faehn said Noble’s work ethic and passion will suit her 
well in the future, but sacrificing her body for gymnastics isn’t the right decision.  
“She has the rest of her life,” she said. “I told her that she 
has to be able to one day run outside with her children and play sports with them and lift them up. Gymnastics is not her identity .  
“It’s been a beautiful part of what her life is, but she’s go-
ing to have to go through the grieving process and know that there’s something better for her out there that she’s going to channel her passions toward.” 
Noble only competed in the season opener before going on 
a five-meet hiatus, returning to the floor routine with less-than-stellar performances later in the year. 
By the time it came to the last regular-season meet against Utah, Noble’s condition was so severe she couldn’t travel with the team. 
She couldn’t even sit up for more than 15 minutes without 
having to lie down. 
But with the two biggest competitions of the year left, the 
Southeastern Conference and NCAA championships, Faehn still hopes to have Noble with the team on the sidelines. 
“If she’s capable without being in pain, I know she’s on a 
lot of pain medication right now, she will travel with us the rest of the year,” she said. “I would absolutely love for her to be there on the sidelines cheering, but it’s a matter of what her body can handle.”24, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman Brittney Noble learned last week that her gymnastics career has likely come to an end due to a 
disc in her back pressing against her spine, causing severe damage. Noble competed in two meets this season.
Injuries ending 
Noble’s career