We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 33 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida freshman 
pitcher Karsten 
Whitson (right) 
threw a gem in his 
collegiate debut 
Sunday, leading the 
Gators to a series 
sweep by throwing 
five scoreless in -
nings against USF.
See Story, Page 13.78-year-old man in Wyoming busted for skiing uphill won’t face charges
JACKSON, Wyo. — A 78-year-old retired 
doctor was handcuffed and hauled away on 
a toboggan for skiing uphill in Wyoming, but he won’t face charges.
Roland Fleck of Jackson was arrested the 
morning of Feb. 5 after refusing ski patrollers’ orders to stop. Jackson Hole Resort officials say avalanche danger and the presence of grooming machines made it unsafe.
Skiers can get uphill with snow-gripping 
“skins” on their skis, among other methods.The Jackson Hole News & Guide says 
Fleck was jailed on charges of trespass, inter -
ference, unsafe skiing and theft of services.
Resort officials say they won’t press charg-
es because Fleck’s removal resolved their complaint. Sheriff Jim Whalen says he sees no need for prosecution.
Fleck’s son, attorney Dan Fleck, says 
his father did nothing wrong and the resort should change policies.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Partly 
cloudy
81/57FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Unite Party’s Ben Meyers, left, and Progress Party’s Dave Schneider face off to be UF’s next Student Body president in the Student Government elections Tuesday and Wednesday.
THE NEXT FACE OF THE STUDENT BODY?
It’s another election for Ben Meyers’ lucky 
shorts. They are the same khaki, gator-em-
broidered pair he wore in the last three elec-tions. The only other time he has worn them was during a financial accounting exam; he scored an 88.
Yes, the shorts are washed, he assured. On 
Wednesday, he’ll be wearing them again.
Friends, fellow senators and even current 
Student Body President Ashton Charles say when Meyers is president, he’ll be one of the best the university has seen.
Meyers, when asked if he agreed, knocked 
on a wooden desk in his office and replied.
“If I become president.” He won’t take any chances. The historic 
advantage of his party won’t sway him, ei-ther. It’s a mix of his humble nature and su-perstitious ways. Hence, the lucky shorts.
But it’s more than luck with Meyers. It’s 
experience most 20-year-olds can’t match.
At 17, he attended Boys State, a program 
sponsored by the American Legion, the larg-est Veterans Service organization in the coun-try. In spring 2009, he was elected senator for the sophomore class at age 18. At 19, his fel-low senators voted him to be the chairman of the Allocations Committee.
At 20, he is the current Student Senate 
President. And a month before he turns 21, he could be Student Body President.
He remembered the first time he spoke in 
front of Senate. As a nervous freshman, he could feel his voice shake and stammer.  The Meyers looks to continue the 
Unite Party’s reign over SG 
Dave Schneider is no stranger to struggle. 
He’s marched with students in opposition to 
administrative takeovers and injustices. The fight is where he feels most comfortable. So when he faces the incumbent party in the 
polls he knows he can’t waiver in what he 
considers a good fight. 
He thinks there are too many career politi-
cians and not enough political organizers. He believes any change that happens come from the bottom up. So why is he running for the top position of Student Government?
“I want to be president not because I want 
to go up to the third floor of the Reitz Union,” 
he said.  “It’s because I want to bring the third 
floor of the Reitz Union down.”
His work with Students for a Democratic 
Society, a student and youth activist orga-nization, furthered his belief that activism needs to be an integral part of SG. His rail-thin physique and sod of hair on his chin betray the polished boom his voice carries. Maybe it’s his belief that someone has to speak for 
those who can’t. Or maybe it’s the swagger of 
some of his favorite artists like Lil Wayne and Kanye West that he raps to in his free time with friends at karaoke. 
He wasn’t always first to jump in the 
middle of a crowd, megaphone in hand, and bring people together to fight for a cause.
In his seventh grade English class, he re-
members having to do projects on books. The 
three options to complete the projects were 
to write a paper, create an art project or do a speech. He stuck to writing papers. He was Schneider would bring activist 
mentality to the executive office
SEE SCHNEIDER, p AgE 8 SEE MEYERS, p AgE 8News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 33 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Spencer Christen,  
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Casino Night
Today, 6 p.m.Broward Hall BasementCome join us for Casino Night. The night will be filled with poker, Black Jack, Russian roulette and more.
Green Deen: Islam and the 
EnvironmentTuesday, 7 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomJoin Islam on Campus’ Islam Awareness Month in wel-coming author and speaker Ibrahim Abdul-Matin. His book, “Green Deen: What Islam Teaches about Protecting the Planet,” will be the topic 
of his presentation. He will 
explain how Muslims can be 
environmentally conscious because of Islamic tenets that urge such a life. The UF Office 
of Sustainability will give a 
brief presentation afterward. 
Visit www.islamoncampus.com for more information. 
Student Government Elections
Tuesday and Wednesday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.Various locations on campusVisit sg.ufl.edu  for more in-
formation.
Theatre Strike Force improv 
marathon
Friday, noon to midnightOrange and BrewStudents are encouraged to from his jacket pocket has gotten it back — 40 years later.
Rudolph Resta was working 
for The New York Times as an art director in 1970 when he left his jacket in a closet at the old Times building in Manhattan just off Times Square. When he went to fetch the jacket, the wallet was gone.
Fast-forward to last fall, when 
a security guard checking a gap by an unused window came across the wallet — apparently stashed there by a thief who’d pulled out the cash.
Resta was tracked down 
through pieces of ID linked to the Times. 
Resta is now in his 70s. He’s 
enjoying the memories the wallet contained — photos of his sons as children, his glamorous wife and his late father.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSdonate, and all proceeds will be given to Relay for Life. 
Gainesville Rugby Club Fifth 
Annual Poker RunSaturday, 7 p.m.Gator CityThe Gainesville Hogs invite you to their fifth annual pok-er run. You will get cards at each stop. The best hand at the end of the night wins $100. For details, check out their website, www.gaines-villerugbyclub.com. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Wallet missing for 40 years found in NY crevice
NEW YORK — A New York 
man whose wallet disappeared WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
80/50SUNNY
78/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/51PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/52TUESDAY
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
February 21, 1977: The Gainesville City Commission 
approves building plans for a new sports coliseum on 
UF’s campus, now known as the O’Connell Center, de-
spite residents’ fears that the building will lead to seri-
ous parking problems.
The “proposed mass-seating facility” is planned to 
seat 12,000, as well as house an indoor pool, several bas-
ketball courts, dance studios and a weight-lifting gym. 
Although the city estimates a need for 2,500 addition-
al parking spaces, campus officials have plans to build a 
1,000-space parking lot nearby and replace 350 spots that will be covered by the new building.
February 24, 1998: Adam Sandler’s film crew comes 
to campus searching for thousands of students and resi-dents to star on the sidelines of his newest comedy, “The 
Waterboy.”
The scene calls for a huge crowd, about 10,000, and 
tickets are sold around town for a chance to be part of 
the movie.
Attendees have the chance to win cash prizes, a car, 
TVs and camcorders. “Waterboy”-themed materials such as T-shirts, hats, key chains and water bottles also are given away.
February 21, 2002: The Gainesville Public Safety 
Committee rules against a proposal  that would regulate drink specials and gimmicks such as “Beat the Clock” and “Ladies Night.”
The proposal, aimed at regulating binge drinking by 
students, is found by the committee to violate a Florida law that keeps local governments from interfering with state Division of Alcohol regulations of alcohol sales.
— KAT BEINLOCAL
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
A married UF student turned him-
self in to the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office Saturday on charges of down-loading and keeping child pornogra-phy on his computer.
Detectives working with a federal 
child Internet safety task force got their first warrant to search 21-year-old Mi-chael Sheridan’s home last February . 
Authorities took anything from his 
apartment that might have contained the downloaded pornography , such as computers, hard drives or thumb drives, said ASO Lt. Scott Anderson.
Detectives found videos and pic-
tures of children involved in abusive 
sexual acts. They turned in their find-
ings to the State 
Attorney’s Office, which  issued a warrant for Sheri-
dan’s arrest Satur -
day.
A n d e r s o n 
said digital evi-
dence usually takes a long time to sift 
through. It isn’t uncommon, he said, 
for an investigation like this to take a year before authorities can secure a warrant.
Sheridan was contacted about the 
charges and turned himself in Satur -
day at about 2:30 a.m. He was charged 
with two counts of possessing child 
pornography . His bond was set at $50,000, and he was released at 3:30 p.m.
According to his Facebook profile, 
Sheridan is enrolled as a student at UF and has been married for almost two years. He describes himself as “very conservative” politically and lists 
himself as as a member of the Mor -
mon faith.Student arrested for child porn
 THE EVENT IS HOSTED BY GATORWELL 
HEALTH PROMOTION SERVICES.
By AMANDA EATMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Miss Florida 2006 Allison Kreiger Walsh’s suffering be-
came apparent when she was a junior in high school. 
She said she was malnourished and had popped blood 
vessels in her eyes, torn knuckles on her hand and chunks 
of hair falling out.
The UF graduate suffered from bulimia for three years. According to the 2010 Healthy Gators Student Survey 
Report, 17.3 percent of UF students today worry about los-ing control over how much they eat.  
Embrace Your Body Week, hosted by GatorWell Health 
Promotion Services today through Sunday , is promoting positive body image among UF students, faculty and staff, to further awareness and prevention of eating disorders.
“We live in a culture that values the objectification of 
women and men,” said Roberta Seldman, coordinator of the Student Mental Health Services eating disorders pro-gram. “A campaign like this will balance the devastating effect of the culture.”
The week has three main events. A film screening on 
Tuesday, a panel discussion Wednesday and a wellness 
fair Thursday . 
Walsh said UF provided her the chance to 
live life the way she wanted.
Her advice for those struggling with eat-
ing disorders and body image is to get help as soon as pos-sible. 
“It’s scary, but life on the other side is so worth living,” 
Walsh said. “You can truly recover. It’s my 11th year in re-covery, and it’s awesome. You go from being completely consumed to being able to love again and love yourself. It 
is so worth getting help for.”Week promotes good body image
OnCampu sSheridan
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Francis “Pat” Fitzpatrick has 
been kicked out of more than two 
dozen Gainesville City Commission meetings. 
He has run unsuccessfully for a 
seat on the commission three times. 
He said he’s been arrested six 
times, once for refusing to leave a downtown restroom so the home-less could use it.
Some say the 61-year-old is an-
noying — a limelight-loving man who doesn’t know when to stop. Others say he’s passionate — an ac-
tivist who lives for the cause. 
Despite what anyone thinks, 
Fitzpatrick says he isn’t going any-
where.
“I think he’s a great guy ,” said 
Joe Jackson, a UF law professor who represented Fitzpatrick in 2005. “He’s passionate and compassion-ate. He cares very deeply about the 
outcasts and rejects of society.”
Most recently , Fitzpatrick was 
escorted out of a City Commission 
morning meeting after he called commissioners “fascist a**holes.” 
At the night meeting the same 
day , he crumbled up the paper he was reading and threw it onto the table in front of him while commis-
sioners watched.
“Death to the fascist insects that 
prey upon the people!” he shouted.
He started to leave, paused and 
turned around.
“You lied to me! You lied to me!” 
he yelled, louder and angrier this 
time, at the commissioners. 
“I want to get arrested.” 
He held out his wrists to an of-
ficer, who took his arm and walked 
him toward the door. 
“Bastards,” he murmured under 
his breath.
Later that night, he said he knew 
he’d gone too far.
“I’m not doing that again,” he 
said. “That was 40 years of frustra-
tion.”
Nicholas Corrao, a former UF 
documentary student who made 
a film about Fitzpatrick, said Fitz-patrick’s enthusiasm can get out of hand.
“He’s just a genuine personality,” 
he said. “But he does have this ex-plosive side.”
Fitzpatrick, who usually wears 
worn sneakers, a UF windbreaker over a basketball-sized belly and a baseball cap that hides his reced-ing, wiry gray hair, calls himself an 
activist. 
But he isn’t quite like the others. 
He has a job. A few days of the 
week, he’s a special education sub-stitute teacher. He runs a radio show, Protest Inc., where he plays music by Bob Dylan, Joan Baez and Pete Seeger on Grow Radio once a month. He plays the tambourine in 
an “acoustic peace punk” band, the 
Gainesville Liberation Orchestra.
He has a bachelor’s degree in his-
tory from the University of Central Florida, a master’s in rehabilitation counseling from UF and a master’s in social work from Florida State University.
He helped farmers in Immoka-
lee, a Fla. town as famous for its laborers’ rights issues as UF is for its football players. He said he hid workers who were so mistreated by their bosses that they seemed to be in slavery, running them from house to house.
He said he fought the Hendry 
County School Board because it was 
suspending mentally challenged 
students.
He became an alcoholic and 
stopped drinking.
He was an addiction counselor who helped women inmates over -
come methamphetamine and heroin addictions. 
Now, he makes several calls each 
day to media and commissioners. 
Usually , when Fitzpatrick calls, he 
has news about his coalition’s next big move against the government. Other times, it’s just to talk.
His children, Daniel, 26, and Ka-
tie, 21, are grown, and his ex-wife, Karen, is still a close friend. They were married for 10 years and di-vorced in 1994. 
He wakes up, not to the voice of a 
lover, but to a homeless male room-mate. He drinks a Slim-Fast and a Pepsi for breakfast and is out the door.
If it’s the first or third Thursday of 
the month, he’ll drive his 1994 Ford to City Hall and wait. Sometimes he brings his “Feed Everyone” and 
“Fifth Meanest City to the Home-
less” signs.
Now, he’s fighting a city permit 
that limits Gainesville soup kitchens to 130 meals a day . 
It just so happens there’s only 
one soup kitchen in Gainesville the permit applies to, so the movement against the limit has evolved into a 
fight for the St. Francis House.“The whole thing boils down 
to some mean-spirited people,” he 
said. “They’re trying to criminalize everyday needs.”
Kent Vann, executive director of 
St. Francis, said that he, not an ac-tivist, will speak for the St. Francis House.
He said he knows people are 
passionate about homeless issues, but cursing at commission meetings doesn’t help.
“I can’t contain other people’s 
emotions,” Vann said.
Three days before Thanksgiving, 
he held a one-man hunger strike on the steps of City Hall, armed with a full regalia of signs and attracting lo-cal media bit by bit.
“If Jesus was here, he’d be against 
the 130,” he said.
When the mayor gave his State 
of the City speech at a downtown 
theater in January , Fitzpatrick and 
about 20 other members of the Co-alition to End the Meal Limit NOW gathered outside.
They picketed, they chanted and 
they smiled for TV and newspaper cameras. Fitzpatrick sat on a bench and watched. He said he knew the protest wouldn’t change the com-
missioners’ minds, but at least the media exposure would inform peo-
ple about the issue.
During the protest, members 
of the coalition served homemade vegan chili and cornbread to the 
homeless. Technically, he said, dis-
tributing meals outside the theater is illegal, but Gainesville police at the protest didn’t stop them. Offi-cers’ jobs were to keep the sidewalks clear and to make sure nothing got out of hand, Gainesville police Lt. Tim Hayes said.
“As long as everyone’s peace-
fully protesting, we’re not getting involved,” he said.
Fitzpatrick had been planning 
the protest for about two weeks. He called the media, the police and his lawyer.
“Let ‘em arrest me,” he said.Fitzpatrick is the son of a for -
mer teachers union president and 
grew up in a Catholic, middle-class 
Orlando family . He’s still Catholic, a Secular Franciscan who goes to mass almost every day, but he’s tak-en a quasi-vow of poverty . He said he likes to live with little, but he’ll still splurge on a piece of cheesecake for lunch.
He said he’s been an activist since 
he returned from the Air Force; a 23-year-old ready to change the world. He was in the military during the Vietnam War but was stationed in San Francisco and Ft. Yukon, Alas-ka, just north of the Arctic Circle.
His current objective is to kill the 
meal limit.
Commissioners know he’s pas-
sionate, and some say he’s a nice guy outside of City Hall, but they think he needs a timeout.
After Fitzpatrick’s “fascist 
a**hole” outburst, Commissioner Lauren Poe suggested a three-month ban for citizens who get out of hand.
Fitzpatrick said being kicked out 
of meetings doesn’t faze him. He’ll leave the auditorium and go into a backroom press box where he’ll laugh with a reporter. He knows the commissioners can see him stand-ing behind the tinted glass. But he doesn’t like the idea of a ban. 
Get him started on the First 
Amendment, and you better be 
ready for a speech. But more than 
anything, if he feels a rule is immor -
al, nothing, not even a ban, will stop him from fighting it.
“Tell an American you can’t feed 
someone, and see what happens,” he said.4, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Francis “Pat” Fitzpatrick, an advocate for the homeless, is escorted out of a Gainesville City Commission 
meeting Nov. 21, 2010.
LOCAL
 IT WILL CHARGE STUDENTS A 
FLAT RATE FOR 15 CREDIT HOURS.
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
UF administrators and Student Govern-
ment leaders remain embroiled in a battle over 
the implementation of block tuition at UF. 
Students will have the chance this week 
to voice their opinion on the measure, which would allow the university to charge all stu-dents a flat-rate tuition for 15 credit hours.
The vote will take place Tuesday and 
Wednesday as part of SG spring elections but may not affect the university’s course of ac-tion.
“We’re always interested in what students 
think,” said UF spokesman Steve Orlando, “but the board voted on it and it’s set to go 
into effect.”
Block tuition will be implemented in 2012, 
pending approval from the Florida Board of 
Governors. The measure was proposed to take effect in fall 2011, but UF’s Board of Trustees voted to delay its arrival and gather more data. 
Despite student opposition last semester, 
UF administrators, armed with statistics that 
point toward block tuition benefiting the uni-
versity, are standing firm on the issue.
Statistics include this one: 14.1. That’s the 
average number of credit hours students take. The goal of block tuition is to give students 
incentive to work through college faster and free up space for new students. 
However, both candidates for Student 
Body President, Dave Schneider of the Prog-ress Party and Ben Meyers of the Unite Party, oppose the proposal. 
Schneider said block tuition was an “as-
sault” on the Student Body that would pe-nalize students who take 12 credit hours to 
manage jobs or extracurricular activities that 
may enhance job opportunities down the line.
The extra cost a student taking 12 credit 
hours would incur if block tuition existed 
would be $504 with the current tuition rates.“There are virtually no students who are in 
favor of block tuition,” Meyers said. “The cus-tomers of the state university system are the students. And the customer is always right.”
Block tuition is not necessarily a popular 
measure with other state universities, either. 
Only Florida State University is consider -
ing implementing block tuition, and it is only in the beginning stages of looking into it.
UF Student Body President Ashton Charles, 
who  voted against block tuition in December, said it will take statistics to show the Board of Governors how damaging block tuition could 
be to students.
“It’s not just a megaphone,” she said. “It’s 
going to take significant work to get block tu-
ition off the table.”Students to voice opinions on block tuition this weekOutspoken advocate stirs up commission meetings
UFAdministrationMONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
 300 PEOPLE ATTENDED THE 
CHINESE NEW YEAR CELEBRATION.
By CRISTINA PANEQUE
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 300 hundred people celebrated 
Chinese culture Saturday night in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom.
People of all ages and backgrounds joined members of the Chinese American Student Association in welcoming and cel-
ebrating the Year of the Rabbit.
The show consisted of performances 
showcasing Chinese culture.
The 15-day celebration of the Chinese 
New Year was condensed into 10 acts, be-ginning with a lion dance and a kung fu 
demonstration and ending with a perfor -
mance by the organization’s traditional and modern dance troupe.An orange tree was used for wish-mak-
ing — a  part of Chinese tradition. 
The group included an explanation of 
the tree as well as other information about 
the  Chinese New Year in between acts.
Members of the 
Gainesville Chinese 
School performed a yo-yo demonstration. Another new act, Baozheng Li, played mu-sic on four different traditional Chinese in-struments.
Angel Cheong, the internal vice presi-
dent of the organization, has helped put on this show for at least five years, but most of the acts vary each year.
“Since it’s not really a holiday in the 
United States, this is my way to celebrate,” 
Cheong said. “For the Chinese-American 
student, this is like a home away from home. So they can celebrate, too, because it is such a big celebration overseas.”Student performances ring in Year of the Rabbit
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
Although he has released three 
albums and starred in his own 
“Comedy Central Presents” special, 
comedian Todd Barry admitted he was nervous about his performance 
in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
That’s because Friday’s perfor -
mance was a homecoming for Barry, 
a UF alumnus, who was making his first trip back to campus in 20 years.
In just more than an hour on 
stage, Barry touched on Gainesville-centric jokes about Orange and Brew, Leonardo’s and the Chipotle on University Avenue, which he re-
ferred to as the “O’Connell Center of 
Chipotles.” 
Barry used plenty of his all-
purpose material but added to his student audience’s enjoyment with 
new bits related to Gainesville. 
“Some of it I thought about … 
and some of it just came to me when 
I was up there,” he said afterward. 
He mentioned watching a Red 
Hot Chili Peppers concert in that very ballroom in 1986, living at 302 Beaty Towers West and graduat-ing as an English major with a 2.11 GPA. 
Barry made his show a personal 
experience, holding conversations with a student who was texting in the front row, another who left in the middle of his routine and seem-
ingly anyone else who wanted to get 
involved. 
“The crowd was great. They 
were super polite,” Barry said. “And 
smart — really 
smart.” 
Reitz Union 
Board Entertain-ment and Gator -
Nights produced 
the show through a joint effort. RUB 
Lectures and Comedians Director Andrew Fleming said the board had 
been trying to bring Barry to UF for a 
while. RUB was finally able to mus-ter the $5,000 needed to secure “one 
of the bigger names we’ve brought,” 
Fleming said.  
The first half hour of the event 
featured a trio of student comedi -
ans: Rudy Mendoza, Brian Amos 
and emcee Tim Keck. Comedian, alumnus 
brings act to Reitz  ON CAMPUS
Barry
MulticulturalAffairs
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Step Up
Iota Phi Theta Fraternity Inc. performs at the 22nd Annual Florida Invitational Step Show 
at the O’Connell Center on Saturday night. According to www.ufblackhistorymonth.com, the step show, better known as FISS,  is one of the largest student-run step show produc -
tions in the southeast. FISS is a step competition between nine organizations that make up the National Pan-Hellenic Council Inc.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Friday’s question:  Friday’s results are unavailable due to technical difficulties.Today’s question: Which party do you support in the SG elections?In a biannual tradition, the Editorial Board called in 
candidates from both Unite and Progress parties Sun-day night to discuss the Student Government elections. 
With the heat on, both figuratively and literally, in our sauna-like conference room, we came to a realization: Ev-eryone’s good. 
Candidates on both of the tickets are competent and 
qualified to hold their desired positions. We were left to choose between the better of two goods, not the better of two evils. Whoa, we aren’t used to saying that.
We agonized over the selections — one of the board 
members was almost reduced to tears over the choice — 
but we’re confident no matter the result of the election, the 
winners will accomplish their platforms. Here it gets tricky: Many of the goals discussed in the parties’ platforms are the same, albeit with different ways of implementation.  
On the subjects of block tuition, fees and budget cuts — 
the three most pressing issues our Student Body faces at the moment — everyone agrees on standing against block tuition, increased student fees and budget cuts. 
In this election, students aren’t voting on issues; they’re 
voting on candidates and their experiences. So, let’s take a look at what made our decision gut-wrenching.
The Student Body president and vice president come 
bundled as a ticket on the ballot, but we’re sure even if 
we could mix and match candidates, they would work to-
gether to achieve their goals. Presidential candidates Ben Meyers and Dave Schneider both have proven leadership capability. Meyers, of the Unite Party, seems to be taking the next logical step in his UF political career by aiming 
for a role he’s been preparing for. Schneider, of the Prog-
ress Party, while known for his megaphone penchant, has experience sitting down in meetings and hashing matters out. They are two sides of the same coin. 
It’s much the same for the vice presidential contend-
ers, Unite Party’s Anthony Reynolds and Progress Party’s Cassia Laham, who differ mainly on the method by which Student Government should get more involved with stu-dents.
As for treasurer, we had to choose between Progress 
Party’s Amy Chaildin, a graduate student who has worked with SG finances for four years, and Unite Party’s TJ Vil-lamil, the man who wrote the very budget he would be 
enacting.
Although we love the underdog mentality and the ac-
tivist bent the Progress Party espouses itself to, the Edito-
rial Board has decided to endorse the Unite Party in the election. It was a choice between our belief that a party 
could accomplish all items presented in its platform and 
the knowledge that they — both the party and the candi-dates themselves — have a proven record of doing so. 
Come on, guys. You made this difficult on purpose.
All joking aside, we hope that, no matter the outcome of 
the election, leaders from both parties will help and advise 
one another to make our Student Government as strong a force as we know it can be.
That said, they can’t do much without you. In this elec-
tion, we can safely say the only bad vote is the one you don’t make. Make a little time Tuesday or Wednesday to let your voice be heard.SG Elections
Endorsing the better of 
two goods isn’t easy
With Big Bird facing extinction, the federal gov-
ernment on the verge of a shutdown and pro-tests rocking the Middle East as well as our 
own state capitols, a hallmark of our electoral system for the past quarter of a century was quietly slated for the death chamber. 
At the end of January, Republican members of the 
U.S. House of Representatives voted to eliminate pub-lic funding for presidential campaigns and party con-ventions. While some might decry this as a self-serving move by a party whose candidates have historically out-raised their Democratic counterparts, the folly of 
this logic is easy to see by looking no further than both 
Barack Obama’s and Hillary Clinton’s fundraising bo-
nanzas during the 2008 presidential election cycle.
So, why did members of the House vote to cut fund-
ing for this program? Although the $1.5 billion it has 
cost taxpayers since its inception in 1976 is a substan-
tial sum of money, this amount is a drop in the bucket 
compared to our nation’s current national debt of about $14 trillion. Could it be that the House took up this mea-sure because there are more fundamental issues at play, or would this be giving our representatives too much credit? Perhaps it is a little of both.
Our Constitution guarantees that one person equals 
one vote. It does not guarantee, however, that each per -
son can have an equal influence on the political pro-cess.
 Everyone is certainly free and encouraged to par -
ticipate, but those with more money, better organiza-tion and pervasive passion will probably have more influence on the outcome of an election than someone who does nothing but vote on Election Day. This is OK. Some scholars have suggested that these inequalities in funding, orga-nization and passion, which many 
decry as a problem within our sys-
tem, are actually some of the best safeguards of minority rights that our nation can offer.
Take, for example, the Civil 
Rights Movement of the 1950s and 
1960s. While the pendulum was swinging in favor of increased rights for all, there is no indication that a clear majority of the nation, on its own, would have favored 
the reforms that were undertaken at the time they were 
undertaken. However, the superior organization, pas-sion and, in time, funding of those seeking to protect the civil rights of all Americans, allowed them to have a 
disproportionate impact on the national discourse and 
persuade their fellow Americans of the correctness of their positions. 
If these groups and individuals were not allowed to 
have a disproportionate impact on the political process, 
who is to say that the landmark reforms of the 1960s 
would have occurred when they did?
While public funding of presidential campaigns is 
not the worst use of taxpayer money, it is not the best, 
either. 
Republicans probably attacked this problem because 
it was an unpopular program from which to cut funds 
and gain easy political points. In the process, though, they may have inadvertently helped protect minority 
rights and better our political process. 
Zack Smith is a first-year law student. His column ap-
pears on Mondays.Quiet de-funding presidential elections
Zack Smith
letters@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
In support of Progress Party
In the spring of 2009, the Progress Party was founded in an at-
tempt to overthrow a political system composed of an entrenched 
group of overly entitled elites that rendered the UF Student Gov-ernment completely inaccessible to the students it promised to rep-resent. I had the honor to serve as the Progress Party’s presidential 
candidate with some of the most thoughtful and passionate stu-
dents I met during my time at UF.
Since that time, the Progress Party has held true to its founding 
principles while constantly developing its politics and remaining open to the ideas of a growing constituency.
This Student Government election is surely not unlike any other 
that has preceded it  — David vs. Goliath. It is the same story every 
year: A massive political machine representing a small minority 
of special interests wins a sweeping majority of votes and retains 
power despite the best efforts of a well-intentioned opposition.
But this election cycle takes place in the wake of global political 
events that have proven to the world that entrenched, corrupt gov-
ernments can topple when faced with popular protest.
Simply put: Goliath doesn’t look so big once you get off your 
knees.
Let this be the year UF rids itself of political machinery and 
replaces it with the popular democratic principles of the Progress Party.
Benjamin Dictor
UF Alumnus
Diversity is a value that I hold high, and I hope it is shared by 
the Student Body at large. My three semesters of participation in the Korean Undergraduate Student Association, as well as being the founder and president of Students for Peace in Korea, should speak for itself.
Accordingly , it distresses me greatly to see the dire state the 
Asian Studies and Asian-American organizations have fallen to under the watch of a seemingly uncaring administration and a Stu-dent Government  unwilling or incompetent to defend it.
When budget cuts disproportionately attacked the Asian Stud-
ies, I joined along with Ben Dictor, a founder of the Progress Party , to stand in solidarity with the program.
When the administration increased its own funding and 
dropped the Korean language department, it became my goal to campaign for the return of the program. In five subsequent elec-
tions, the majority party has done nothing to reach this end.
In this year’s first UF Student Government debate, the vice 
presidential candidate of the majority party claimed his support of 
the Korean community at the university. I find it somewhat curi-ous, then, that KUSA — the organization committed to promoting Korean culture on campus —  had its funding cut under his party’s watch. Actions speak louder than words, Anthony Reynolds. 
Let’s be clear: From its inception, Progress Party members have 
stood behind the Korean language program, and I’m proud to see 
it on my party’s slate for this election. 
Let the records speak for themselves, and join Progress Party 
members in restoring diversity at UF. 
Timothy Johnson
UF StudentIn support of Unite Party
Choosing to “Unite” the Student Body was an easy decision 
for me. 
I saw a need for improvements on campus, and I knew the 
best and most effective way to do that was to support the Unite 
Party. It has a very diverse membership of students. This al-lows us to consult students from almost every major and stu-dent organization on campus. By doing so, Unite Party mem-
bers are able to get a very precise prediction of the Student 
Body’s opinions and beliefs on important issues. Furthermore, our diverse background allows us to see issues from all sides of the spectrum. This allows us to focus our efforts on the most pertinent topics and consequently determine the best direction 
for UF and its students.
As a Unite Party member, I envision a university where a 
unified Student Body can overcome any obstacles in its way. 
As John Dickinson once said, “United we stand, divided 
we fall.” This can apply directly to the university. We can ac-
complish anything with a united Student Body. This includes defeating block tuition and overcoming other problems  cur -
rently affecting our university. 
On top of that, the candidates for the Unite Party are very 
qualified individuals who have enormous amounts of experi-ence in the UF Student Government.
This experience will allow them to steer our university in 
the best direction possible. As a student at the University of 
Florida, I am proud to say I support the Unite Party.
Travis Howard
UF student
One of the things UF looks for during the application pro-
cess is a well-rounded person. What makes a well-rounded 
person? It is someone who excels academically and is 
involved in school activities. This is something I strive to live by, as do the majority of the students here. That is what makes this school so great. 
Before joining the Unite Party, I was involved in several 
clubs, including the skydiving club. While I enjoyed being a part of all of them, I wanted to get involved in an organiza-tion that affected every student at UF. I sought out the Unite Party after looking at its track record of accomplishments and 
meeting some of its members. 
Sure, it can be annoying to receive fliers every day during 
elections, but if you take the time to read the points on these 
fliers, you may see problems you want fixed. Furthermore, the party routinely accomplishes 90 percent or more of the 
things it puts on those fliers. 
The Unite Party is filled with people who are passionate 
about this school and driven to achieve results for students. 
The Unite Party is something I am proud to be a part of. 
Matt Mountjoy
UF studentLetters to the Editor
I am frustrated with the lack of options 
the Student Body has in our choices 
for Student Body President, namely 
with both candidates’ opposition against block tuition. I am tired of hearing about 
the “vast majority” of students who take 
less than 15 credit hours because that is  incorrect. 
The average number of credit hours 
taken by a UF stu-dent per semester is between 14 and 15. The average 
student wouldn’t pay much more, as the 
opponents of block tuition say. I also dis-
agree about the characterization of the type of student who takes 12 credit hours a semester. Spending  a fifth year at UF is expensive, and students who can’t afford school are better finishing their degrees on time and getting a job to pay off loans.
Block tuition will not be a large rev-
enue generator. The university may make 
a few million dollars, which in terms of 
the total UF budget is not much money . It’s intended to raise our abysmal five-year graduation rates, which penalize us in national rankings and prevent UF from rising to the top of the charts of national universities. Also, every student who takes an unnecessary fifth year to finish a degree robs another of the chance to be a 
Gator because of UF’s space limitations .
Block tuition rewards students who ex-
plore classes they might not otherwise. It 
rewards students who finish their degrees on time and who choose to challenge themselves. While some programs such as engineering might take a hit from block tuition, the difference is largely negligible, and the benefits of increasing the values 
of our degrees by increasing the image of 
our university are worth the cost. 
Giving students incentives to graduate 
on time is a goal that most of us should strive for. I have no problem with people taking an easier course load, but  it is fair to ask those students to pay  more. 
I plan on voting for block tuition in the 
SG referendum. 
Travis Hornsby is a UF statistics and 
economics junior.Block tuition 
beneficial for  
UF studentsGuest column
Travis Hornsby
Speaking Out8, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
He is a fourth-generation UF student
confidence and conviction came three meetings 
later.
But the work he is most proud of is helping 
to finance emerging student organizations in Al-locations.
As Senate President, he worked on transpar -
ency issues and worked largely on extending transportation through RTS with the Later Gator 
and other services.
Meyers’ rise to the ranks is no surprise to those 
who know him. Charles said Meyers always has 
gone the extra mile. She remembers the many late nights during the first few weeks after block tuition was announced when she’d stay up late 
researching with Meyers at her side.
“That’s not part of his job description,” she 
said. “But he did it.”
As his Senate mom, an endearing alternative 
title to mentor, Charles has seen him grow from 
a motivated freshman campaigning for his party, even when he wasn’t running, to someone who has had a “profound impact across campus” at such a young age.
Maybe it’s with a sense of confidence that he 
didn’t run again for his seat in senate. Maybe it’s the public servant in him. 
Meyers is a self-described “all-American fam-
ily man.” Born and raised in Florida, the fourth-generation Gator is the son of two lawyers who met during their law school days at UF.
“I literally would not exist if it wasn’t for UF,” 
he said. 
With all the university has given him, he hopes 
to continue to give back and let the students of UF be heard. If elected President, he said he will keep fighting for student rights. The first thing to tackle 
is taking block tuition off the table forever. Next 
would be platform issues such as the soft closing of bars, meaning bars would stop serving drinks and food at 2 a.m. but would remain open until 3 a.m., and getting campus-wide free printing. 
— HANNAH WINSTONMEYERS , from page 1ON CAMPUS
By RACHEL STEPHENS
Alligator Contributing Writer
An air of the New York fash-
ion scene swept through the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom on Friday night.
About 1,000 people dressed up 
to see the 10th annual Fashion X-Clusive show, put on by the UF Black Student Union in honor of Black History Month. The theme was “Metropolis: A Fashion Uto-pia,” which featured New York-in-spired apparel. 
James Miller, a third-year stu-
dent at UF, has attended Fashion X-Clusive shows for three years. He said these fashion shows have a strong cultural meaning.
“This is actually a staple for the 
black community,” he said. “Fash-ion X-Clusive is a great opportunity to celebrate Black History Month and to show off the different talents that the African-American students of the University of Florida campus have.” Trimaine Sheffeild, director of 
the fashion show, said it represents more than just UF talent. It also pays 
homage to professional black artists 
and producers who sometimes are overlooked. 
He and his team spent about 
10 months preparing for the show. Fundraising and sponsorship by the Black Student Union and Stu-dent Government collected $12,000 to put on the event, he said. 
This year, plasma screen TVs 
were added to the runway to en-hance the New York theme. 
The runway also was equipped 
with about 75 stage lights, including intelligent lighting, LED lighting and conventional white lighting, according to Ed Edwards, senior project manager of Sight & Sound Productions, which managed the stage setup. 
About 30 students modeled for 
the show as their friends, soror -
ity sisters and fraternity brothers cheered them on from the audience. 
The models took the stage wear -
ing everything from classy New York-style formal wear to black lin-gerie decorated with felt sunflow-ers, daisies and other greenery .  
A live rapping performance, 
“Dougie” dance-off and $250 schol-arship giveaway also were part of the show.
NYC-themed fashion show highlights black artists
terrified to speak in public. 
“I stayed away from public 
speaking,” he said. “And now I can’t 
stop.”
It began when he won the Rawl-
ings Hall Senate seat in fall 2008 of his freshman year. 
Jose Soto, a close friend and the 
graduate student senator for family housing, said Schneider will bring order into SG as president. 
“He sees SG as disorganized,” he 
said. “And he’ll organize it.”
What may seem like a broken re-
cord at debates and public forums is Schneider’s activism with the Kofi  Adu-Brempong incident. The shoot-ing that happened last March in-volved a graduate student who had a standoff with University Police.
Schneider calls his failed re-elec-
tion bid a blessing because he would not have been able to have such an 
impact on the activist front. “I’ve been an activist since I’ve 
gotten here, but something about the whole situation I really connected 
with on a level deeper than some of the stuff done,” he said.
He met with leaders at UF to talk 
about the Adu-Brempong shooting. Bernie Machen called him by his first name when the two met last spring. 
He sat across from the UF presi-
dent and told him that the student 
protests would not stop until justice 
was brought to Adu-Brempong.  
If Schneider becomes president, 
he wants to work with administra-tion so the students’ voices are heard on such issues as block tuition, on-line voting and transparency in SG.
“Activism works both in a stu-
dent government type of setting and 
outside of one,” he said.
If he’s not able to speak for the 
students as president, he’ll go to 
Plan B. Megaphone in hand, he’ll keep marching.
 — HANNAH WINSTONHe protested UPD shooting
SCHNEIDER , from page 1
FUN FACTS ABOUT THE CANDIDATES:
§ Both Meyers and Schneider have the same 
birthday: April 5, 1990. This is also the same 
birthday as former Student Body President Jor -
dan Johnson and Schneider’s father.§ Meyers and Schneider were almost each oth-
er’s first opponents their freshman year in fall 2008 for the Rawlings Hall Senate seat. Mey -
ers wasn’t slated and Schneider won the seat.§ Both have one 17-year-old sister.
§ Schneider has been told he makes a mean 
curry, though he says he “isn’t a chef by any means.”§ Meyers is a fan of “That’s what she said” 
jokes and makes them often.“This is actually a staple 
for the black community.”
James Miller
UF juniorClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-22-
11-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroomAll inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR  � MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning
.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1600
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $5501 year lease, SD, NS, NPCall/Text 352-870-7256gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-22-11-24-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    3-3-11-30-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-22-11-14-2AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, 5 min 
from bus. Big yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. 
W/D incl. Fireplace in living rm & game rm w/ 
bar area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1600/mo. 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-22-11-14-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No 
pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus 
routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   
2-21-11-14-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com2-22-11-9-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
Beautiful. 1bd. 1ba. loft 5 min on freeway 
from SFC Renovated with tile & carpet.Pool,
Clubhouse, Exercise Room, Quiet location.
$425mo $425sec. $45appl. fee.
472-6491.
3-1-11-10-2
4BR/2BA apt. $900/mo.
Will pay $500 for Section 8 tenants.
Holly Heights. 352-498-3035,email jholifield1@gmail.com    2-22-5-2www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-4-11-12-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Arlington Square. Right downtown! Bus: 1&5. 
5 min bike to campus/15min walk. 2BR/2BA 
townhouse: high ceilings, in courtyard w/ 
pool. May-July. Unfurn/util not included. 
$470/person. 352 318 1014. jsmyth@ufl.edu   
3-1-10-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.    3-1-10-4
Looking for a male roommate who is very nice 
& easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo util 
& dish network tv incl. If interested call Joe at 
331-4239 or 240-4536. No smokers, alcohol, 
drugs or overnight guests please.  2-25-7-4
Perfect for female student or young profes-
sional. Quiet, safe, split-plan home in Haile. 
Has furnished BR & BA, utils & kitchen use, 
W/D. $375. Please leave message after 
11am 352-377-1648   2-24-11-5-4
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 11
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
● GRASS-FED BEEF FOR FREEZER ●
$2/lb live weight. Buy whole, half, quarter.
USDA, no hormones, no pesticides,
locally grown. Call 352-498-3035 or
jholifield1@gmail.com   2-22-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      2-25-11-70-13 This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
12, ALLIGATOR  � MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications 
using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small 
company in G’ville, great work environment. 
About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   
2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks 
P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, 
monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. 
About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   
2-25-11-17-14
TECH SUPPORT
CEO ASST
NETWORK ASST
SALES CONSULTANTS
SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS
Full time positions.
Send resume to hr@gleim.com
www.gleim.com+         2-28-11-10-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply 
in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 
NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 
9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    2-28-11-10-14
Sun Country Sports Center has immediate
openings for an experienced swim instructor 
w/lifeguard cert and a morning cleaning/
light maint. position. Now accepting summer 
camp counselor applications. Download at 
www.suncountrysports.com.
HR@suncountrysports.com for info.
2-21-11-5-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com   2-21-11-5-14
Project Manager/Account Director wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com.     2-21-11-
5-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com   2-21-11-5-14
Office Asst Paid Internship in Alachua. 
$12.00 hourly 10-15 hours weekly. Flexible schedule. Knowledge of Quickbooks a plus. Email resume to BiopressInfo@gmail.com.   3-1-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive  po-
sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to 
alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14
Gator Dining Services, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, is now hiring cooks, line servers, and cashiers for a new Panda Express opening in March. We offer flexible schedules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply online at www.gatordining.com or in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.   2-21-11-3-14
6DollarShirts.com needs local models ages 
18-22 for a photo shoot for all of our current t-shirts. Send an email to robinw@threadpit.com and tell us about yourself and photos (face and full body).   2-23-11-5-14
PERSONAL CARE ASSISTANT NEEDED
for developmentally disabled female in a wheelchair. M, W, F. 9am - 3pm. $10/hr. Must be able to lift client & have a car. 352-384-0909   2-23-11-5-14
COMPANION NEEDED
for developmentally disabled female in a wheelchair. M, W, F. 3pm - 8pm. $10/hr. Must be able to lift client & have a car. 352-384-0909   2-23-11-5-14
VOLUNTEER NEEDED - Website/social networking help for growing aerospace & WWII museum. Flexible schedule. Exp. w/Joomla and WordPress required. Resume to susan@wingsofdreams.org    2-24-5-14UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-4-11-11-14
TYPIST FOR PROFESSIONAL OFFICE 
NEAR CAMPUS. As needed basis. Must 
be fast/accurate/dependable. Send email to 
combehserv@gmail.com    2-24-11-5-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems seeks 
sales consultants for Gainesville & Ocala.  
Must have reliable transportation. BG Check 
and Drug Test Required. Fax resume to 352-
376-9236 or e-mail info@cpss.net.   3-3-11-
10-14
Mystery shoppers needed to evaluate cus-
tomer service at local businesses. No fee to 
register - we pay you! Please register at our 
website: www.shopperscritique.com.   2-24-
4-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-0069 to schedule an appointment todayprogreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordableGrammar, conversation, vocabularyContact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     3-16-1-15
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF Teaching Center.  Monday - Thursday, 2/28 – 3/3 from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions on M & R, Math on T & W.  Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.    2-25-5-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF students
GatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.   2-23-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Earn $15 for participating in a 90-minute 
research study. Must be 18-28 years old & speak Spanish & English fluently. Contact Sabra Pelham by e-mail (spelham@ufl.edu) for details about how to sign up.   2-24-5-20
CHOW NOW FOOD TRUCK
Tuesdays 11am till 1:30pm
Behind Emerson Hall     2-22-11-2-20
FREE TUTORING! Prepare for Mid-terms at the Teaching Center and Reading & Writing Center in Broward Hall. TC offers live tutor-ing – plus TV & podcasts – in various math, science & other classes; seewww.teachingcenter.ufl.edu for courses and times.  RWC offers help with any writing as-signment; see www.at.ufl.edu/rwcenter for details.    2-25-5-20Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-
Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-
Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- 
HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...
Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.     
2-21-11-2-21
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
Space Shuttle launch STS 133 visitor center. 
2 tickets. Feb 24,2011 $150 (at cost) dpw@
ufl.edu 352.262.7662   2-21-11-1-22
Sports
ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org monday
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
ONLINE alligatorSports Podcast TEEING OFF WITH TYLER JETT THE RIGHTY STRUCK OUT 
NINE AND GAVE UP ONE HIT.
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
Late last August, while most 
college freshmen were acclimating 
themselves to dorms, bars and fi-
nancial hardship, Karsten Whitson 
was turning down $2.1 million to play for the top-ranked Gators.
On Sunday, the ninth overall 
pick by the San Diego Padres in the 2010 MLB Draft threw a gem in 
his collegiate debut, pitching No. 1 
Florida (3-0) to a 5-0 win and series sweep over South Florida (0-3). 
“This is the reason I came to 
school,” Whitson said. “To throw 
on this Gator uniform and just 
come out here and pitch.”
The heralded freshman lived up 
to the hype, throwing five shutout 
innings with nine strikeouts and 
only a single hit. His fastball was clocked consistently at 94-95 mph, and his slider had tremendous 
movement, fooling several Bulls 
hitters.
“Karsten was outstanding,” UF 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “It’s hard. He’s 18 years old, and there’s 
a lot of expectations. But I thought 
he handled it great all week and did a very nice job today.”
After a two-out single in the first 
inning, Whitson retired 11 consecu-tive batters, including five straight strikeouts, before a one-out walk in the fifth. 
“If you get ahead and you pound 
the strike zone and get guys in 0-2, 1-2 counts, you kind of smell the blood,” he said. “You got to just go ahead and just finish them off.” 
The Gators got on the board ear -
ly Sunday when shortstop Nolan Fontana, who scored five runs on nine hits during the series, roped a double down the right-field line to lead off the bottom of the first. 
After Josh Adams failed to ad-
vance the runner, Preston Tucker — who hit the Gators’ first home 
run of the season in Friday night’s 
7-2 win — singled up the middle, 
scoring Fontana to give UF a 1-0 
advantage. 
In the fourth inning, Florida 
gave Whitson some breathing room, plating two runs on a Mike 
Zunino homer and a Daniel Pigott 
RBI single. 
But the day was all about the 
flame-thrower. Even after tossing 
six consecutive balls, prompting a 
brief meeting on the mound with O’Sullivan, Whitson collected him-self, and his next pitch was a dart-
ing two-seamer, jamming a Bulls 
hitter into an inning-ending double 
play.
“It was just one of those days 
that was kind of good to get this out of the way,” Whitson said. “Get 
the nerves and everything out of 
the way. I was able to throw strikes 
and have my teammates work be-
hind me.”
Florida’s defense was solid in all 
three games, especially in the 4-1 
victory Saturday afternoon, when center fielder Bryson Smith gunned down a runner at the plate and Fon-
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman right-hander Karsten Whitson pitches during the Gators’ 5-0 victory over South Florida 
on Sunday in McKethan Stadium. The No. 9 pick in the 2010 MLB Draft threw five shutout innings.
Whitson, starting staff pitch UF to series sweep vs. USF
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
Three games, three wins. And it 
wasn’t even close. 
The No. 5 Florida softball team (9-0) 
completed a three-game sweep against 
No. 22 North Carolina (4-4) on Sunday 
with a dominant 10-0 win. 
After scoring at will against Mar -
shall and USF, some viewed UNC as the Gators’ first legitimate threat this 
season.
But the Tar Heels were simply out-
matched, as the Gators outscored them 22-0 during the series.
After holding North Carolina to five hits Saturday, pitcher Stephanie Brombacher stifled the Tar Heels once again, holding them to only four hits 
and no runs as she improved her re-
cord to 6-0. 
UF’s ace worked ef-
ficiently, needing only 58 pitches to get through five innings. 
It was another im-
pressive outing for the senior right-hander, who 
has yet to allow a run in 31 innings pitched this year. 
Even though she has been shutting Brombacher, Gators 
cruise past Tar HeelsUF BASKETBALL
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
BATON ROUGE, La. — With a win over 
LSU on Sunday, Florida accomplished some-
thing it hadn’t since the 2006-07 season: 10 wins in the Southeastern Conference. 
The No. 14 Gators (21-5, 10-2 SEC) rode a 
dominant first half to a 68-61 victory at LSU (10-17, 2-10 SEC) en route to the milestone. 
UF coach Billy Donovan said the 10-win 
plateau is an indicator of how far his players have come the last four years. 
“You fail to see sometimes the growth 
that guys have made in terms of their ap-proach,” Donovan said. “And I’m really proud of those guys in terms of the jump 
they’ve made.”
But it was a lack of maturity that nearly 
cost the Gators the win.
UF followed an impressive 40-25 first half 
with a lackluster showing over the final 20 
minutes, allowing the Tigers to pull within six with 4:41 remaining. “Coach preached to us at halftime to come 
out with intensity, and we didn’t,” sopho-more guard Kenny Boynton said. 
After holding LSU to just 34.4 percent 
shooting in the first half, Florida allowed the Tigers to hit 51.9 percent over the final 
20 minutes. 
The Gators also struggled on the offensive 
end, as their second-half 
field goal percentage was 
less than half of the gaudy 59.4 percent they shot be-fore the break. 
“We didn’t come out 
with that much intensity like we should’ve come out 
with … and that was all on 
us,” senior center Vernon 
Macklin said. “We should’ve just come out of the locker room and thought the score was 0-0. Maybe we would’ve played harder.”
Macklin and his teammates dominated 
the interior in the first half, as UF’s 28 points Florida rolls over LSUSEE BASEBALL, PAGE 16
SEE SOFT, PAGE 16
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 16Softball
n Check out alligatorSports.org for the sixth 
installment of our weekly video show, featur -
ing an in-depth look at the Gators’ opening-
weekend sweep of South Florida and how the pitching staff is living up to the hype.n Keep an eye on our website and your 
iTunes feeds later today for a baseball-focused podcast featuring beat writers Jesse Simonton and Tom Green, along with Scout.com’s Cody Jones.n Props to Team (whoever won) for the All-Star win Sunday night. I’m a huge 
(East or West) fan, born and raised. … Borders stores are closing nationwide after filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. English majors, get out now. Fellow journalism majors? We’re already in too deep. Let’s ride this thing out and see what happens. It’s only the next 45 years of our lives. Macklin
 THE GUARD RECORDED 
23 POINTS, EIGHT BOARDS AND FIVE ASSISTS.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
When Lanita Bartley walked off 
the floor with 10 seconds remaining, 
the pink-clad crowd of 1,803 stood 
and applauded. 
Afterward, coach Amanda But-
ler said she couldn’t remember the 
last time a player received a stand-ing ovation.
“It’s been a while … I was just 
glad we were able to get her off the floor when we did,” Butler said. “Be-cause she definitely deserved it.”
The 5-foot-6 guard led the Gators 
with 23 points in their 78-63 victory over Mississippi State on Sunday in the O’Connell Center. The junior also snagged eight rebounds and 
had five assists.
Her hustle summed up what But-
ler called the most complete half of 
basketball she has seen all season.
After struggling against the Bull-
dogs’ pressure, scoring just 28 points in the first half, the Gators erupted for 50 after halftime to turn a close game into a near rout.
Florida led by as many as 20 in 
the second half due largely to the in-terior presence of forward Jennifer George.
Connecting on all seven of her 
field goal attempts, and 7 of 12 from the charity stripe, George carried the team down the stretch as Missis-sippi State began raining threes. 
She finished with 21 points, four 
boards and three blocks in 30 min-utes, with most coming after she 
had to leave the floor due to a scrape 
underneath her right eye.
“I don’t like getting hit in the 
face,” George said. “It definitely sparked something.” 
The win is the first in the last five 
games for Florida (15-13, 5-9 South-eastern Conference), and George said it felt great to get off the snide 
and carry momentum into the SEC 
Tournament.
Mississippi State (10-16, 2-12 
SEC) led 31-28 at the half, due partly to 11 Florida turnovers, leading to 13 easy points for the Bulldogs.  
Florida had four more quick 
giveaways to start the second, and it appeared UF was headed down a familiar path. But the Gators put together a 
23-4 run with Bartley and George at the helm.
Bartley brought the fans to their 
feet on multiple occasions with wild drives to the rack that, more often than not found, the bottom of the net.  
She finished 9 of 12 from the floor and attempted just two shots out-side of the paint. 
Afterward, Bartley credited her 
teammates for her success.
“I’ve got to give it to my post 
players,” Bartley said, dismissing the notion that she took advantage of MSU’s Diamber Johnson’s play 
on defense. 
The reserved Bartley was all 
smiles after walking off to fans’ ap-plause and embraced fellow guard 
Jordan Jones.
“I’m a real emotional person,” 
Bartley said. 
But she wasn’t the only emotion-
al person Sunday.
After a week off, Butler’s voice 
could be heard loud and clear, in-structing her players throughout the contest, even when Florida ex-tended the lead to 20. 
“That’s not how we play . I’m 
not going to coach one way when we’re up and one way when we’re down,” Butler said. “We’re going to demand their best every second … 
they want their best demanded of 
them. So, my barking is not going to cease.”14, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
UF junior guard Lanita Bartley fights for a layup during the Gators’ 
78-63 win over Mississippi State on Sunday in the O’Connell Center.
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
Through the first nine days of the season, the only team 
able to stop Kitty Cullen has been her own.
When the Gators practice, Cullen said her teammates al-
ready know all her moves. They can check her speed and reg-
ularly stop her from scoring by clamping down with double teams.
At Dizney Stadium on Sunday, Denver (0-2) wasn’t able 
to implement any of No. 17 Florida’s (2-1) techniques to stop Cullen, and the Pioneers paid for it with a 15-7 loss.
For the third game in a row, Cullen has scored at least four 
goals. Her six against Denver upped her season total to 14 
goals and tied her single-game school record from last year.
“Kitty’s a special player, and she stands alone,” UF coach 
Amanda O’Leary said. “Her speed is a humongous asset to 
her. She just can really dodge well, and she’s finishing (plays) this year, which she struggled a little bit with last year.”
Cullen’s shot efficiency has improved from last season by 
more than 40 percent through three games. In matchups last year against Jacksonville, LaSalle and North Carolina, she 
scored goals off only 20 percent of her shots. 
Against two of the same three teams (UNC 
and JU) this season, Cullen is up to 61 per -
cent.
In the first 17 minutes against Denver, 
the Gators’ offense flowed through Cullen 
and attacker Ashley Bruns. One of the players either scored or assisted on five of Florida’s first six goals. 
But as Cullen had her hand in the bulk of the Gators’ 
goals, Bruns did most of her damage throughout the after -
noon dishing the ball. The sophomore had a team-high four assists, along with three goals of her own.
The defense also chipped in early for Florida, causing 
four turnovers on each of the Pioneers’ first four possessions. O’Leary said it was the most complete game she has seen 
from the group so far, as the Gators held an opponent under 
nine points for the first time this season. 
“We have such a great defense, and they worked together 
so well, and they played to each other’s strengths,” Cullen 
said. “It’s so helpful when they’re able to get it up to us like 
that so we can run a fast break.”
But after Cullen scored her sixth goal of the day and 
stretched the Gators’ lead to 15-3, Florida replaced most of its starting back line and let four consecutive Pioneers goals zip 
past Meagher.
“We clearly could have done a lot better,” sophomore Col-
by Rhea said. “We let some goals in that we shouldn’t have, 
but I think that it’s a good starting point for us, and I think 
we’re just going to learn from here.”Cullen, Gators 
stomp Pioneers 
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
The No. 2 Florida women’s tennis team plowed through 
three ranked opponents this weekend at the ITA Indoor Cham-
pionships, securing a spot in the National Indoor Final today.
The Gators found redemption for a disappointing showing 
last year with wins over No. 9 Miami, No. 12 Clemson and No. 6 Duke. Florida (10-0) won each match handily, including a 4-1 victory over Duke on Sunday . 
“We were outstanding in doubles and overall played one of 
our best matches of the year,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. “That’s a good sign when you’re in the semifinals of the na-tional championships and you’re about to play a top team in the finals.”
Florida’s foe in the finals is a familiar one: No. 1 Stanford. 
The championship is a rematch of last year’s NCAA Team Championship match, where Stanford topped Florida in a 4-3 heartbreaker for the Gators.
“Half of our team is new and has no memory of that loss,” 
Thornqvist said. “We’re just focusing on the quality of our op-ponent and we want to go out and play good, aggressive ten-nis.”
Sophomore Allie Will led the team over 
the weekend, posting a 3-0 record in singles. Today, she will go against No. 2 Hilary Barte in her toughest test of the season so far.
“Allie has had an amazing tournament,” 
Thornqvist said, “but we feel that we are very deep and we can get a win from any spot.”
The Gators’ depth will be tested against 
Stanford, but Thornqvist is encouraged by 
how well his team fared this weekend.
“This is the final everybody wanted,” he said. “We’re ready 
for it.”MEN’S TEAM FALLS TO UCLA:  The No. 11 Florida men’s 
tennis team lost another close match Sunday in a 4-3 loss 
to No. 6 UCLA in the consolation match of the ITA Indoor Championships. The Gators went 1-2 over the weekend 
against three highly ranked opponents. 
After a 4-3 win over No. 7 Stanford on Friday, Florida 
dropped a 4-1 decision to No. 17 Duke on Saturday before fall-ing 4-3 to UCLA in the consolation match Sunday.
“I felt like UCLA was just a little bit stronger than us today,” 
coach Andy Jackson said. “But I was more than pleased with our competitiveness and effort throughout the weekend.”
Florida has now played to a 4-3 final score in four of its last 
five matches, going 2-2 in that stretch. After a 6-0 start to the season, the Gators have dropped three of their last four. 
“If we’re going to play these top-15 teams, we’re going to 
have a lot of close matches,” Jackson said. “We’re still a very good team. We’re not dominant, so we’re going to play these teams close.”Florida women advance to ITA National Indoor FinalUF TENNISBartley paces UF to home win
Lacrosse
Will
 CIESLAK AND BEISEL 
WERE NAMED SEC FRESH -
MEN OF THE YEAR.
By MELISSA PENDER
Alligator Writer
 
The Southeastern Conference 
Championship titles came down to 
the wire Saturday , as both Florida teams hoped for a lucky break in the 400-yard freestyle relay that would 
give them a last-second victory.
Unfortunately for the Gators, the 
Auburn men’s team and the Georgia 
women’s team prevailed, and both UF squads finished in second place.
Senior Conor Dwyer, named SEC 
Male Swimmer of the Year, said UF couldn’t make up the points lost in a disappointing showing by the div-
ers last weekend.  
“We outswam them in the pool 
all four days,” Dwyer said. “It’s kind 
of tough coming up short.”
Dwyer earned two individual 
SEC titles, taking home the gold medal for the 500 freestyle and the 400 individual medley . The senior also collaborated with teammates 
to take first place in three relays and 
shared the Commissioner’s Trophy for the High Point Award for most individual points in the meet.Senior Marco Loughran also 
earned two titles, winning the 100 and 200 backstroke.Florida took home both SEC 
Freshman of the Year awards. Mar -
cin Cieslak, who took the title in the men’s 100 butterfly . Elizabeth Beisel received the award for the women’s team after setting an SEC record in the 400 IM and swimming the na-tion’s fastest time this year in the 200 back.
UF coach Gregg Troy said he was 
thrilled with the women’s second-place finish. 
“We’ve been putting things to-
gether with Band-Aids and tape all year,” Troy said. “We’ve had a bit of misfortune, and the girls did a great job.”
Troy hoped the men would win 
a title, but he remains positive about their chances going into the NCAA Championships in March.
“We’re a little disappointed. 
We thought we could do a little bit better. We left some points on the board,” he said. “But we got ev-eryone qualified for NCAA, pretty much, that we wanted.”
Troy said he made several lineup 
changes and asked leaders like Dw-yer to give up personal glory for the team’s sake.
“(Dwyer) gave up sure wins 
in certain places to help out team wise,” he said.
Troy also said the determina-
tion of Cieslak and freshman Brad deBorde were equally instrumental in the men’s near-win.
“This is a tough competition for 
young guys,” he said. “This is four 
days, and it’s intense all four.”MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Conor Dwyer was named the Southeastern Conference Male Swimmer of the Year follow -
ing his performance at the SEC Championship meet, in which both Gators squads finished second.
Florida takes two second-place finishes at SEC meet
UF GYMNASTICS
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
 
When the Gators took the floor Friday 
night, freshman walk-on Jade Wiggins was 
the first to come running out of the foggy 
Gator head tunnel. 
It was symbolic of the entire weekend of 
back-to-back competition, as the UF coaching staff utilized the weekend as an opportunity to rest the gymnasts already familiar with competition, pushing more inexperienced gymnasts into the spotlight.. 
No. 1 Florida maintained its spotless, un-
defeated season, beating Auburn at home on Friday and George Washington, West Vir -
ginia and New Hampshire in Morgantown, W.Va., on Sunday. “The team really showed that we do have 
a lot of depth,” UF coach Rhonda Faehn said.  “We’re working on getting more faces out there on the competition floor so that we’re able to continue to rest some of the athletes that we feel really we need to pace to be fresh at the end of the season.” 
While Southeastern Conference Gymnast 
of the Week Alaina Johnson and freshman all-arounder Mackenzie Caquatto didn’t take 
part in either meet over the weekend, fresh-
men walk-ons Wiggins and Lauren Rose offi-cially competed for the first time this season.
Though Wiggins had a shaky debut with 
her 9.125 debut on floor Friday, Faehn said she was pleased with her exhibition perfor -
mance on balance beam. 
Rose posted a 9.8 on floor Friday and a 9.75 on Sunday. 
Senior Maranda Smith said she could re-
late to the pressure on Rose and Wiggins, as Smith first joined the Gators in the spring se-mester.
“For both of them, espe-
cially coming in just in Jan-uary, I know how nerve-wracking that is,” she said. “They both jumped right 
in, and they work extreme-
ly hard.” 
Freshman all-arounder 
Brittney Noble returned to the floor after a foot injury 
that had sidelined her since the close of the team’s season opener against Nebraska. 
However the tendinitis-stricken gymnast had a shaky return on floor — first with a 
9.625, going out of bounds against the Tigers, 
and a 9.3 performance on Sunday. 
Faehn said she was pleased with the week-
end’s performance overall, but the gymnasts still need more work. 
Although Florida still came out of the 
weekend with two more victories under its belt, the Gators didn’t rack up the nation-high totals they have been posting in meets 
throughout the season. 
“We always want the big score. We want 
the best athletes out there all the time,” Faehn 
said. “However, you have to set that aside and look at what’s best for the team and what’s best for the long run, and not about the instant satisfaction of a score. And that’s not important right now.”
New faces shine as Gators rest for season’s stretch run
Smith
16, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2011
out opponents left and right, 
Brombacher isn’t one to take 
credit for the team’s success. 
“I have to give it to our hit-
ters,” she said. “When they come out and score as many 
runs as they do, it makes my life really easy, and I can just 
go out there and work on get-
ting them out instead of being afraid to give up runs because 
we can’t score.” 
And the Gators have been 
giving their ace plenty of sup-
port so far this season. 
They have plated at least 
nine runs in six of their first 
nine games, doing so with 
power and speed. 
Leadoff hitter Michelle 
Moultrie continued her hot start to the season with double in the first and later scored on Megan 
Bush’s double. The junior also 
doubled in the second inning to push her batting average to 
a team-leading .536.
Moultrie showcased her 
speed by avoiding the catcher’s tag with a head first slide into 
home on Aja Paculba’s RBI double in the second inning. 
Her skills on the basepaths 
were also evident when she successfully stole third, sliding under a tag in the fourth in-ning. 
The junior center fielder has 
worked with coach Tim Walton and his staff to improve her bas-
erunning and prides herself on 
getting on base early and often for the team’s power hitters.
That includes left fielder 
Kelsey Bruder, who was hitless in the past three games, but she 
found her groove Sunday. 
After reaching on an infield 
hit in the first, Bruder crushed a two-run homer to right field in 
the second inning and reached 
base in all three at-bats.  
After holding the Gators to 
only three runs Saturday, UNC 
freshman Lori 
Spingola sur -
rendered six 
in only three 
innings. 
W h i l e 
Walton said Spingola will 
be a good player, he 
was impressed by the way the offense performed its second time around. 
“Sometimes it’s making ad-
justments, sometimes it’s not,” he said. “The key for good hit-
ters is to try to find what you’re 
good at and try and take away the other pitcher’s strengths 
without losing what you’re 
good at.”Gators continue hot hitting
SOFT , from page 13UF pitchers strike out 31 in 27 innings
tana made a diving stab with the bases loaded.
“You walk two guys and make one error on 
the weekend, you’re going to be in good shape,” 
O’Sullivan said. 
For the series, 11 UF pitchers combined to throw 
27 innings, allowing just three runs while punching 
out 31 Bulls.  
“I was pleased with the way we came out to-
day,” O’Sullivan said. “The last game of the series is 
the most difficult one, and I thought it all started on 
the mound again.”
ETC.: Florida’s attendance for the three-game 
series was 14,003, a record for a season-opening weekend. … Brian Johnson, Hudson Randall and Whitson, UF’s weekend starters, combined to throw 17 innings with 21 strikeouts and one walk. … For the second consecutive year, Florida opened the 
season with a series sweep of USF. …Tommy To-
ledo picked up his first career save on Saturday. …
Sunday, freshman Daniel Gibson pitched a scoreless 
ninth inning, touching 93-94 mph in his collegiate 
debut.BASEBALL , from page 13
Parsons sits out, status still uncertain
in the paint were more than LSU 
scored overall. 
Macklin, who recorded 12 first-
half points and 16 for the game, said the Gators worked all week on establishing position close to the basket, which set them up for inside scores against a Tigers 
team that likes to force opponents 
outside.
That philosophy changed in 
the second half, as LSU’s switch to a zone defense put the empha-sis back on Florida’s guards. 
The duo of Boynton and ju-
nior Erving Walker responded by scoring 22 of Florida’s 28 second-half points. Each finished with a team-high 17 for the game, but Donovan was critical of their per -
formance. 
“Our perimeter guys got a little tentative, and we didn’t do a great job attacking the zone,” he said. “We have to do a better 
job of mixing in when to post feed 
and when to drive.”
Those struggles led to a score-
less second-half stretch from 9:01 
to 3:11.
But Boynton 
and Walker re-covered by drop-ping a combined 
eight points the 
rest of the way, closing out the 
win. 
“Honestly, I wasn’t really con-
cerned,” Boynton said. “I knew our points were going to come. We had went on so long without scoring, but it was just a matter of 
when.”
INJURY UPDATE: Senior forward Chandler Parsons missed Sun-
day’s game with a left thigh bruise suffered Feb. 12 against 
Tennessee when he collided with 
teammate Alex Tyus.
Donovan said after the game 
he is “concerned” with Parsons’ injury, as the senior experienced swelling during a Friday workout and was subsequently shut down by the team’s trainers. 
Donovan said Thursday that 
Parsons was 50-50 to play against LSU, but the senior made “very, very little improvement” on Fri-day and Saturday. 
Parsons’ status for Thursday’s 
game at home against Georgia re-mains uncertain. 
“I don’t have any timeframe 
for him to be back,” Donovan 
said. “I do not expect him to be 
back tomorrow and definitely do not expect him back Tuesday.”
HOOPS , from page 13
Walton
“You walk two guys and make one error 
on the weekend, you’re going to be in 
good shape.” 
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coach
Men's
Bask etball