We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 11 THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida junior 
guard Erving 
Walker (right) is 
leading the Gators 
in scoring and has 
been a consistent 
outside shooting 
threat on an incon -
sistent offensive 
team this season.
See Story, Page 18.n THE COLLECTION INCLUDES 
REMAINS OF 32,000 MAMMALS.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
An ecosystem of the dead rests hidden be-
hind tendril-covered walls, guarded by a skel-
eton shark. 
Sitting on shelves and in drawers, remains 
of about 32,000 mammals wait to be noticed 
by the world of the living.
A library of mammals inhabits Dickin-
son Hall. For 40 years, bones and skins have 
sat in rows of cabinets, carefully labeled and preserved for the Florida Museum of Natural History.
Vampire bats lay harmlessly on foam mats, 
their teeth still intact. Across the room, whale vertebrae the size of a basketball line a wall. 
A frozen fruit bat was rediscovered in one 
of the museum’s freezers one summer. Even defrosted, its wings are pinned close to its chest, frozen in a vampiric-looking state of sleep.
“A thousand piece puzzle,” Angelo Soto, a 
UF doctoral candidate in biology , said about the bones.
Some remains are a few years old. Some are 
hundreds. Researchers travel across the coun-try and over oceans to see creatures collected from places ranging from Alachua County to Pakistan.
A monster of a bone, about 13 feet long and 
a foot wide in parts, was brought to the library by a man who was told he’d purchased mam-moth ivory . What he actually had was the 
Tucson restaurant to offer tacos made with African lion meat
TUCSON, Ariz. — A Tucson taco res-
taurant already has served up python, alli-
gator, elk, kangaroo, rattlesnake and turtle. What’s next? Lion meat.
Boca Tacos y Tequila says it’s accept-
ing prepaid orders for African lion tacos, to be served starting Feb. 16. Orders must be placed by Feb. 7 and owner Bryan Mazon says there are already a few reservations from curious customers.
Mazon says his restaurant started offer -ing exotic tacos on its menu every Wednes-day about six months ago and has tried “just about anything we can get our hands on.” According to the Food and Drug Ad-ministration, lion and other game meat can be sold as long as the species isn’t endan-gered.
The Arizona Daily Star says most of Bo-
ca’s exotic tacos range between $3 and $4. The lion tacos will cost $8.75 apiece.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Partly 
cloudy
74/56FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 18page 8
Special to the Alligator
Angelo Soto holds the skull of a caribou at the Florida Museum of Natural History in Dickinson Hall on Wednesday afternoon. Soto 
is a UF doctoral candidate in biology.
Stacks of skeletons pile up at old museum
SEE BONES, p AgE 4
LOCAL
By MOR gAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
After four years, the Alachua County Tax 
Collector’s office finally reached its magic 
number: 10,000. 
That’s the number of cell phones col-
lected by the office as part of the nonprofit 
organization Cell Phones for Soldiers, which recycles cell phones to purchase prepaid 
calling cards. These are sent overseas to U.S. 
soldiers, who can use them to call their loved ones back home. 
The tax collector’s office began collecting phones in February 2006 and achieved its goal of reaching 10,000 donations by Dec. 31, 2010, said Stephanie Kelley, director of hu-man resources at the tax collector’s office. 
Kelley originally suggested making her 
workplace a drop-off location for the pro-gram.
Two teenagers from Massachusetts, Rob-
bie and Brittany Bergquist, originally started 
Cell Phones for Soldiers in 2004, Kelley said. 
The organization has sent overseas troops 
more than 500,000 calling cards, and has Tax office gets 10,000th 
cell phone for soldiers
By MOR gAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
To make a change, you sometimes 
have to dig deep into your own pockets.
Alachua County Commissioner Lee 
Pinkoson jump-started a plan to save 
a local Boys and Girls Club last week when he offered a $37,500 donation to 
help keep its doors open for at least three more months. 
His contribution will give the Boys 
and Girls Club of Alachua County more 
time to speak with local do-
nors and alumni and raise funds to keep the Southeast 
Rotary Boys and Girls Club 
in east Gainesville’s Lincoln Estates area 
running at its current capacity, said Donation keeps Boys 
and Girls Club open
SEE CELL pHONES, p AgE 4SEE pINKOSON, p AgE 4SpecialReportNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 11 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Caitlin O’Conner, 
  Briana Seymour, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Campus Diplomats Forum
Today, 6 p.m.Arredondo RoomAttend our forum to find out more and see if you have what it takes to become a Campus Diplomat. For more informa-tion, or to download an ap-plication, go to www.dso.ufl.edu/studentorgs/diplo-mats/. Applications are due Jan. 29.
2nd Tech Entrepreneur Intern 
Swap MeetToday, 6 p.m.Hough Hall lobbySearching for a spring or sum-mer internship with a local start-up company?  Here’s 
your chance to meet company 
representatives from more than 
15 local start-ups, including Grooveshark, RegisterPatient, Trendy Entertainment and 
Fracture. Internships are avail-
able in fields such as market-
ing, Web development, public relations, computer engineer -
ing, 3-D modeling and more.  
We request that you RSVP on 
Facebook, but that is not re-
quired.
Zumbathon for March of Dimes
Today, 6 p.m.
Florida Gym
Join a night of dance-inspired fitness and fun benefiting the March of Dimes. Tickets can be purchased at the door for $12 for three hours of Zumba instruction, light re-freshments and door prizes. To spice up your Zumba, you are invited to dress in neon to show your support for the March of Dimes.
Ayaan Hirsi Ali: Islam and 
FreedomToday, 6 p.m.Pugh Hall OcoraFeminist critic of Islam and Somali-born noted author Ayaan Hirsi Ali will speak about her heroic personal jour -
ney from Somalia to the U.S. and about her recent book, “Nomad.” For more information, please go to bobgrahamcenter.ufl.edu. 
Block T uition Petition Signing
Today through Jan. 25, 10 a.m.Turlington PlazaHelp Students for a Democratic Society get the topic of block tuition on the Senate ballot. Stop by our table in Turlington Plaza to sign a petition and help show the university that UF students don’t want block tuition! Find us on Facebook: Gainesville Area SDS.
African Student Union Meeting
Friday, 6:30 p.m. Matherly Room 18 We will be having our first  Scott will respond in 140 
characters or less to as many questions as possible during the 
30 minute window.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
IAPA concerned over access 
to Florida’s governor
MIAMI — The Inter American 
Press Association is expressing 
concern over the working rela-tionship between Florida’s new 
governor and members of the 
media. The group issued a state-
ment Wednesday, after capital reporters in Tallahassee voiced complaints to the Florida Society 
of News Editors about Gov. Rick 
Scott, who took office Jan. 4. 
The reporters say the new 
governor’s office has imposed 
unprecedented controls over ac-
cess to Scott and his public activi-
ties. 
The say the office has also de-
layed responses to public infor -
mation requests.
IAPA President Gonzalo Mar -
roquin says there’s often a natu-
ral tension between government officials and the press, but that shouldn’t interfere with the pub-lic’s access to official matters.
The IAPA is a nonprofit orga-
nization dedicated to defending and promoting press freedom and expression in the Americas.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Haridopolos says billions in 
cuts are priority
TALLAHASSEE — Florida’s 
new Senate president says he’d 
like to cut taxes in addition to slashing more than $3 billion from the state budget.
Republican Mike Haridopolos 
of Merritt Island said Wednes-day that his chief priority for the upcoming legislative session that begins in early March is balanc-ing the state budget — which is required by law — without any tax increases.
Haridopolos, the final speaker 
at The Associated Press’ annual meeting of media executives, said much of the savings will come by cutting state employee pay and pension benefits.
Haridopolos, who has an-
nounced his intentions to chal-lenge U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson in 2012, also said the state would not spend any tax dollars on bringing high speed rail to Florida.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSmeeting of the spring semes -
ter. If you are looking to get in-volved or learn more about African culture, you don’t want to miss this meeting. 
Poker Tournament
Jan. 28, 7 p.m.The Vault NightclubPoker face on, clothing off.  Join Pledge 5 Foundation for its second annual “Taking It Off for Charity” Poker Tournament at The Vault.  Play for free or donate $20 for a VIP wristband that gets you free wings and beer, a tournament T-shirt, participation in the raffle, and access to the band. Get $5 off if you donate your gently used clothing at the door.  All clothes will ben-efit St. Francis House and Goodwill. So start cleaning out your closet, practice your poker face and get ready for 
a fun night.  This event will 
be held from 7 p.m. to mid-night and doors open at 6:30 p.m. For more information visit facebook.com/strip-poker.
Dance Marathon Spring 
RegistrationThrough Feb. 4Help make miracles hap-pen and register to dance for Dance Marathon 2011. Dancers do not need to be registered through or part of an organization to partici-pate in this wonderful event. Visit Dance Marathon’s website at www.floridadm.org to register or make a do-nation.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
STATE 
Rick Scott to hold Twitter 
town hall
TALLAHASSEE, — Gov. 
Rick Scott is holding a Twitter 
town hall, a first for Florida.
The governor’s office says 
the online event is scheduled for 7-7:30 p.m. Thursday.
During the town hall, resi-
dents can tweet questions fol-lowed by the hashtag (pound)Flgov.PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/56RAIN
65/43PARTLY
CLOUDY
58/30PARTLY
CLOUDY
60/40PARTLY
CLOUDY
67/51MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
LOCAL
By JENNA MESCON
Alligator Contributing Writer
In keeping with its partnership, Grooveshark will 
assist the Pledge 5 Foundation in their upcoming 
poker charity drive to benefit St. Francis House.
The “Taking It Off for Charity” event will be held 
Jan. 28 at The Vault NightClub.
With a clothing donation and the purchase of a 
$15 VIP wristband, the event gives attendees access to free wings and beer, a tournament T-shirt and par -
ticipation in a raffle.
According to the event’s website, Grooveshark 
will be donating Grooveshark VIP memberships as a raffle prize at the event.
For Pledge 5, which relies greatly on its co-spon-
sorships in order to host its charity events, the part-nership has been a great success.
“Grooveshark is made up of like-minded and 
community-minded individuals,” said Ben Fox, creative director of the Pledge 5 foundation. “These entrepreneurs represent the future of business in America. “
Pledge 5, a nonprofit foundation that organizes 
community events and charity drives in support of a variety of local charities in need, paired with the website fewer than eight months ago, said Ben Kilmer, a member of the business development team at Grooveshark.
This partnership has thus far benefited both par -
ties involved.
“We are a company with growing resources that 
many nonprofits don’t have. We want to use these resources for a greater good,” Kilmer said.
Pledge 5 partnered with other sponsors as a means 
to increase its ability to benefit local charities in need within the  community.
The Pledge 5 goal is to make it possible for all 
people to help their community by hosting and or -
ganizing drives, said Jason Bowman, founder and president of Pledge 5.
The name “Pledge 5” refers to the pledge the foun-
dation asks its volunteers to make: five hours of com-
munity service that can even be achieved through 
helping out with a Pledge 5 event.
“We believe in the motto ‘Give a handful, as much 
as you can,’” Bowman said. “Every bit helps.”Grooveshark pledges to charity
By ASHLEY FIERMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Inter-Residence Hall Association will be sponsoring the 
ninth annual Writing on the Wall Project to help break through 
social, ethnic and religious boundaries within our society . 
Anyone who has been affected by derogatory statements 
will have the opportunity to express their emotions throughout 
the week of the project.
Participants can paint and design bricks that will contribute 
to the wall of negative slurs.
Those who wish to partake in the project can 
receive their bricks today and Friday on the Plaza 
of the Americas. The wall will be built Sunday.
Micayla Mancuso, a UF sophomore, noticed the wall for the 
first time last year.
“When I saw students gathered around the wall, I thought it 
was very inspiring to see people standing up against those who 
have harmed them in the past.”
The Gainesville community is encouraged to come together 
on Jan. 28 for the closing ceremony, which will begin at 12:15 p.m.Wall project to 
last until Jan. 28
OnCampu s“Grooveshark is made up of like-minded 
and community-minded individuals.”
 Ben Fox
creative director of the Pledge 5 foundation4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011
Jesse Lash / Alligator
Resume Rundown
Samantha Curtin, a member of the Warrington Diplomats, critiques a student’s resume at the Ace 
the Showcase event Wednesday night. More than 100 students had their resumes critiqued and par -
ticipated in mock interviews. The event helped students gear up for Career Showcase next week.
By RACHEL DUBOW
Alligator Contributing Writer
Anyone on a budget can ap-
preciate a good deal. 
This is the logic behind Liv-
ingSocial, an online resource 
that offers daily coupons for businesses in a customer’s area.
On Jan. 13, LivingSocial ex-
panded its territory to include nine new U.S. markets, one of them being Gainesville.
“We observe a couple of 
different facets when looking at new markets,” LivingSocial 
spokeswoman Maire Griffin 
said. “We look at merchants and consumers and determine what people want.”
For the LivingSocial 
Gainesville launch, Fresco Neighborhood Italian res-taurant offered the first deal. About 250 customers pur -
chased a coupon worth $30 for 
only $15.
Restaurant owner and man-
ager Gordy Braund said that within 24 hours he noticed a 
change in incoming business.“We have a predominantly 
local clientele,” he said. “On 
a given Friday night I usually know two-thirds of the cus-tomers. Last Friday, I probably only knew one-third.”
LivingSocial is not the only 
company to recognize the growing popularity of online discount advertisements.
UF students Zak Elfenbein 
and Michael Kaplan recently licensed a franchise of the web-site Coupon Cocktail, a dis-count source similar to Living-Social. They, too, launched their business Jan. 13 in Gainesville.
“I think Gainesville is a great 
market for a company like this because students are living on tight budgets,” Kaplan said. 
“These coupons could definite-
ly help them with their basic needs.”More coupon sites 
offer local deals
The phones are exchanged for calling cards
raised close to $2 million, according to its website. 
Another employee at the tax collector’s office, Rox-
anne Watkins, is also heavily involved in the project, 
said Pam Krueger, acting president of the Military 
Support Group of Alachua County. The organization 
recently nominated Watkins for the Alachua County Veterans Advisory Board’s veteran supporter of the year award.
The tax collector’s office gives many of the 60- to-
100-minute calling cards it gathers to the support group, which puts them in soldier care packages. Jim Yakubsin, the Military Support Group’s founder 
and former president, understands the value of each card as he served in Vietnam and Operation Desert 
Storm with the U.S. Marine Corps.
His three sons — Adam, 40, Matthew, 30, and Jamie, 
28 — have also served in the U.S. military 
overseas since the September 2001 terror -
ist attacks. 
“I know exactly what they’re going 
through. I’ve been on the receiving end of packages – I know what it does for your morale,” Yakubsin said. “If nothing else, it’s just a package from home telling the guys, ‘Hey, we’re supporting you.’”CELL PHONES , from page 1
The museum collection is used for research
jawbone of a baleen whale, which 
cannot be legally taken across state lines. It was immediately donated.
Part of Candace McCaffery’s job 
as collection manager for the mu-
seum is to clean and assemble skel-
etons.
McCaffrey said the museum uses 
pieces of the collection to educate people about these animals.The collection has become so full 
that the museum can’t take certain 
animals anymore, such as manatees 
and whales, McCaffrey said. The bones of about 300 manatees are held in a wall of boxes. Each mana-tee gets about two boxes the size of a microwave.
 Soto said some of the research 
that comes out of visits to the library are about animal conservation.
The animal remains were donat-
ed to the museum piece by piece.
“What we do is not just store 
and collect them just to have these fun collections, like as if they were coins,” Soto said. “These collections 
serve a specific purpose.”BONES , from page 1Keith Blanchard, president and chief professional officer of the 
program. 
Pinkoson offered the donation at a meeting about the en-
dangered club last week after hearing the passionate responses of local residents who wanted to fight for the program.
“I didn’t understand the gravity of the situation [at first],” 
Pinkoson said. “There was a commitment of people there to help it continue on.”
He had been considering making a donation to the Boys 
and Girls Club for several years, and this seemed like the right time. 
“I believe firmly that children don’t ask to be born, and they 
deserve a chance to be successful,” he said. “The Boys and Girls Club offers a positive alternative in children’s lives.”
The Lincoln Estates-area club offers after school programs, 
summer activities and sports leagues to local children. 
Tough economic times have led the Boys and Girls Club of 
Alachua County to consider reducing its operations at that site and sending local children to another east Gainesville program for certain activities. 
Although he expressed much gratitude for  Pinkoson’s 
donation, Blanchard acknowledged that it was not enough to guarantee that the club will not close in the near future.
“As of right now, it’s a small piece of a pretty big puzzle,” 
he said. 
Blanchard will attend several meetings over the next few 
weeks to work on fundraising and support for the program. The fate of the Lincoln Estates-area club will depend on the strength of the public’s response. 
Even if the Lincoln Estates site closes, there are two other 
Boys and Girls Club programs in east Gainesville that remain open. Another site will open in east Gainesville on Feb. 1, and 
there is also a club in central Gainesville. 
“Those will continue, and [they] are growing,” Blanchard 
said. “It’s not like we’re pulling the plug on east Gainesville and focusing someplace else.”He donated $37,500 
of his own money
PINKOSON , from page 1n HE FILED THE SUIT THAT 
OVERTURNED FLORIDA’S BAN ON GAY ADOPTION.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — A homosexual Mi-
ami man has officially adopted two brothers in a case that overturned Florida’s three-decade ban on gay adoptions.
Martin Gill and his partner 
were the boys’ foster parents for 
six years. Gill officially adopted 
the two boys Wednesday.
Gill and the American Civil Lib-
erties Union filed a lawsuit against 
the state, calling the ban unconsti-
tutional. The 3rd District Court of 
Appeal agreed in a ruling last year. 
The state decided not to appeal.Gill said he is thrilled they are 
“officially a family in the eyes of the law.”
The prohibition was enacted 
in 1977 and court records indicate it’s the only law of its kind in the United States.
The Department of Children 
and Families changed its forms so 
adoptive parents aren’t asked if 
they’re homosexuals.Gay man adopts two children“These coupons could 
definitely help them 
with their basic needs.”
Michael Kaplan
UF StudentsLOCAL
“These collections serve a 
specific purpose.”
Angelo Soto
UF Doctoral Candidate NewsLocalBy ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
In the dimly lit, multicolored side room 
of Leonardo’s 706, City Commission can-
didate Ozzy Angulo prepared for his cam-paign’s kickoff.
A series of tables sat out, each with 
several chairs for supporters and constitu-ents. 
But few were filled. Roughly a dozen people, including An-
gulo’s own recently assembled campaign team, came to support the City Commis-sion hopeful in his first official fundraiser. 
Despite the sparse numbers, Angulo 
remained optimistic and did not view the 
event as a setback.
“It’s not unexpected,” Angulo said. 
“Many of my supporters are working-class; 
working two jobs, going to class and work-ing full-time. And I also have supporters who are very busy community leaders.” 
He runs on a platform that includes 
more government transparency and intro-ducing measures to aid small businesses.
Dave Schneider, a UF senator with the 
Progress Party, said he supports Angulo because of the candidate’s advocacy of jus-tice for Kofi Adu-Brempong, the UF gradu-ate student who was shot by UF police in March. Schneider also marched with Angu-lo against the Dove World Outreach Cen-
ter’s “International Burn a Koran Day.” 
“Far and away, he cares the most about 
progressive causes and social justice,” Sch-
neider said.
The 30-year-old Angulo, a theater stu-
dent at Santa Fe College, has run for public office in Gainesville once before, when he ran for mayor in 2010. 
After finishing fifth, he decided to take 
another crack at it by running for the Dis-trict 3 City Commission seat. 
Despite the low attendance at the first 
fundraiser, Angulo said he’s not deterred 
and will continue to build his base of sup-
porters.
“We are determined,” he said. “And we 
fully intend to be the hardest working cam-paign in this race.”THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Gainesville City Commission District 3 candidate Ozzy Angulo speaks with Marine 
Corps Pfc. Jeffrey Mervau during Angulo’s fundraiser Wednesday at Leonardo’s 706.
City Commission candidate kicks off campaign
n THE UNICYCLE-RIDING GROUP IS A PART OF THE 
UF JUGGLING CLUB.
By ALLYSAR HASSAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
You may spot them riding down Southwest 13th Street 
on their way to Krispy Kreme, or perhaps going through the 
drive-thru at McDonald’s — balanced, poised and beaming with enthusiasm and talent.
This is the one-wheeled club called the Unicycle Unit.The club is preparing to participate in a unicycle polo tour -
nament at the 33rd Annual Groundhog Day Jugglers Festival in Atlanta from Feb. 4 to 6.
The Unicycle Unit is an offshoot of Objects In Motion, the of-
ficial juggling club at UF. It started six years ago as a contact-juggling club but now includes other types of juggling as well as unicycling.
“The club is not competing for a prize or ad-
miration, but because it sounds fun and gives us a chance to 
practice what we love,” said club president Ian Elsner.
Elsner, a geography junior, joined the club his freshman 
year. He has been juggling since he was 5 years old, when his father taught him.
“A family that juggles together, stays together,” Elsner 
said.
Even though Elsner doesn’t remember how he heard about 
Objects In Motion, he does remember the first meeting he at-
tended.  The members greeted him without judgment.
“It’s really about learning and being a part of a community, 
being humble, willing to teach what you know and learning about what you don’t,” he said.
The Unicycle Unit meets every Tuesday at 8 p.m. at the Re-
itz Union Colonnade and new members are highly encouraged to come and check it out with little or no experience necessary.Unicycle Unit prepares for one-wheeled polo tournament
NewsLocal“We are determined.”
Ozzy Angulo
City Commission candidateThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Will you buy a trenta-sized Starbucks coffee?Tuesday’s question: Did Ricky Gervais make a good Golden Globes host?79% YES21% NO
58 TOTAL VOTESAs the day draws closer to the anniversary of Roe v. 
Wade, the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion, a lot of words will be thrown 
around. Some, such as “crazy,” “insensitive” and “irratio-nal,” will cast broad strokes on vast groups of people. Oth-ers, such as “religious fanatic,” “Nazi,” and “baby-killer” will raise both eyebrows and ugly sentiment. 
This year, we would like both sides to remember one 
word: dignity.
It is never easy to cast a judgment on a subject matter 
that is thorny and laden with many theoretical and moral trap doors. It is especially hard to render an honest verdict 
on something that, without trying to play up the dramatic 
element, raises legitimate questions about life —particu-larly when it begins. 
As students who are just beginning to journey down 
that road known as life, we feel that we lack the adequate scientific qualifications to make that call. As a news outlet, we strive to provide all the answers to the questions that face you, the reader, on a daily basis. When life begins and who has control over that life is not one of them. 
But honestly, who can answer those questions?While both sides, when they are not shouting or resort-
ing to throwing rhetorical sludge at each other, do present compelling arguments, each bears blame in the bastardiza-
tion of this issue.
For those picketing for the pro-life ticket, take a mo-
ment to stop and think before you hit the streets ready to 
wave images of mutilated fetuses at any fleeing eye. To turn what could have been someone’s  soul-wrenching re-
gret or heartbreak into a grotesque sideshow for a cause 
makes your call for “sanctity of life” a shameful, tasteless joke. If you want someone to actually listen and possibly engage with your message, drop your megaphone and 
have a conversation with him or her that isn’t chock full of 
lines more fit for the bumper of a Volkswagen.
For those choosing to throw their lot in with the pro-
choice crowd, understand that while you may view the is-sue as a matter of personal freedom — there is much more 
to it. By frequently using words such as “choice” and “pri-
vacy,” you run the risk of anesthetizing this issue into a political talking point that overlooks the human aspect of it. 
The scared pregnant teen isn’t thinking about whether 
the fetus growing inside of her is a constitutional liability. Rather, her mind is trying to fathom a world where isola-tion from friends and family is a distinct possibly, finances are uncertain and a future seemingly railroaded. Do not 
use her simply as your political mascot. 
“Too often,”  Robert Kennedy once said, “we honor 
swagger and bluster and the wielders or force; too often 
we excuse those who are willing to build their own lives 
on the shattered dreams of others.” 
If you are truly committed to respecting life, demon-
strate it by showing respect for the lives of those next to 
you. Do not let their views, political affiliations, skin color, gender, sexual orientation or whoever they choose or not 
choose to call their higher power stand in the way of see-
ing them for what they are: a person.
The choice is yours. Only Human
Abortion debate leaves 
dignity behind
Republicans can tone down rhethoric 
Over the past couple of years, hot button issues such 
as immigration and health care reform coupled 
with a harsh economic climate led to a caustic po-
litical environment unseen since the Vietnam War. This dialogue finally received scrutiny due to the tragedy in 
Tucson, even though the incident seems to be an isolated 
event rather than a result of deep political rhetoric. It is 
still worth asking: Will anything change or will it be busi-
ness as usual for this Congress?
The answer depends on which party is answering the 
question. Democrats are more than willing to tone down 
the rhetoric and foster a greater bipartisan agenda. A per -
fect case was Senate Democrat Richard Durbin’s plea to calm “toxic rhetoric” because it leads unstable people 
to believe violence is an acceptable action. Besides Sen. Durbin, dozens of politicians from Rep. John Lewis of 
Georgia to Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont echoed the need 
to calm the political rhetoric. Former President Bill Clin-
ton, who dealt with the tragedy of the Oklahoma City 
bombing, told BBC that “no one intends to do anything 
that encourages this sort of behavior but political rheto-
ric falls on the unhinged and hinged alike” and that the political conversation should not be “degenerated into de-
monization.” Most of all, President Barack Obama led the 
way with his speech last week calling for civility. This is 
something we all can heed.
On the other hand, Republicans do not feel as inclined 
to tone down the vitriolic rhetoric.
The only one to make any significant amends is pro-
spective 2012 Republican presidential contender Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota. In a move to win over whatever few moderate Republicans still vote in primaries, he crit-
icized Sarah Palin’s use of crosshairs on a map that tar -
geted Congresswoman Gifford’s Arizona Eighth District. Many others such as Sen. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, talk show host Rush Limbaugh 
and former Vice Presidential 
nominee Sarah Palin decided to take the irresponsible route and 
shirk blame for using caustic language, rather than offer 
condolences and find a means to have a more civil discus -
sion in the future.
This should come as no surprise the lion’s share of the 
party is not inclined to calming the language and refrain-ing from using pejoratives such as “Obamacare”, “anchor 
baby” and “death panels” in order to rouse their base into 
a frenzy. The sad part is they may their base fueling this 
kind of dialogue. According to a recent Gallup poll, an 
overwhelming amount of individuals who describe them-
selves as ‘very conservative’ and ‘conservative’ feel that it is more important for their political leaders to stick to their 
beliefs than to compromise. The opposite is true for self-
identified moderates and liberals.
In terms of bipartisan agreements, it appears the Re-
publicans are agreeing with the Democrats
when it comes to filibuster reform. During the lame 
duck session, they managed to repeal “don’t ask, don’t tell” as well as ratify the START treaty. Hopefully, the 
Republicans will cooperate and not follow Senate Minor -
ity Leader Mitch McConnell’s goal of making President Obama a one-term president at any cost.
The events that have transpired should foster biparti-
san solutions to the problems that truly matter: reducing 
unemployment, increasing our exports, reforming our tax code, and encouraging a more sensible political debate 
without fear mongering and “false truths.” However, it seems this is a dream that will fade into the past as Con-
gress gets down to business.
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering 
student. His column appears on Thursdays.
Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Students should form tuition opinions
I was really glad to see the Ben Meyers 
column in Wednesday’s paper. I believe it 
helped remind the student body that despite 
the Board of Trustees delaying block tuition, it still has an imminent deadline. Logically, this topic should have generated a larger 
reaction than it has in the past few months. 
However, when I talk to my friends and fel-
low students about block tuition, what I find is that they just don’t know all the details regarding it. At the same time, I can’t blame 
them, as the administration has been equally 
vague in disclosing various aspects concern-
ing the issue.
With the majority of the students in the dark, the administration has the ability to push forward a policy that will affect many of us, and by the time we realize it, it might be too late for anyone to do anything. I hate sounding like someone prophesying the end of days, but as a student I realize that if block tuition is implemented, our college experi-ence will be drastically altered.
I believe that the indifference surround-
ing block tuition largely stems from the ignorance of the details. I would like to encourage all the students who value their college experience (and I really don’t mean partying and such) to learn about block tu-ition and more importantly form an opinion — even if differs from my own, an opinion is better than unawareness. A well-informed 
and educated student body is stronger than 
an ignorant one.
Michela Martinazzi
UF student
n n n 
Taking more classes not “burdensome”
Ben Meyers’ wildly unfounded castigation 
of block tuition as an impediment to students’ ability to obtain a “complete education” is a dreadfully poor and specious evaluation. Mey-ers rants about how we want our UF gradu-ates to be diverse, well-rounded and engaged citizens of the world, suggesting that this can somehow only be accomplished by means of a course load of 12 or fewer credits a semester. This offensive insinuation that one extra class a semester would indisputably cripple the av-erage student embarrassingly underestimates the tenacity , ambition and work ethic of the Gator Nation. Simply taking a course load that will allow students to actually graduate on time should not be characterized by our SG officials as a “burdensome” challenge. Block tuition rewards the overachievers, incentiv-izes the slow movers and continues to allow the flexibility for students to learn at their own pace on their own dime.
Brett Wager
4LS
There’s a reason we don’t celebrate Lyndon Johnson Day. 
This past Martin Luther King Jr. Day , I spent a lot of time thinking about the civil rights movement. 
In the face of repression by segregationists and lethargic re-
sponses by the federal government, black people and a multi-
racial coalition of allies courageously marched, rallied and took 
direct action to bring national attention to the horrors of racism. Their heroic struggle forced lawmakers, like President Johnson, to advocate equal rights for all.
Right now, higher education is under assault around the 
globe, and Gainesville is no exception. 
When the administration announced in November that they 
wanted to implement a block tuition system — in which every full-time undergraduate student would pay a flat rate for 15 
credit hours, regardless of how many he or she actually takes 
— students became outraged. Because the proposal would harm working students and hinder participation in extracur -ricular activities, they decided to stand up and organize a resistance.
Since the spring semester started, I’ve 
heard a lot about Student Body Presi-
dent Ashton Charles voting against block tuition at the Decem-
ber Board of Trustees meeting. I haven’t heard enough about 
the flurry of Facebook groups created to oppose block tuition. I haven’t heard enough about the students who pressed the administration to answer hard questions at several town hall meetings last fall. I haven’t heard enough about the thousands of students who signed petitions against the administration’s plan. And I haven’t heard enough about the largest and most direct resistance to block tuition — the three rallies attended by hundreds of students, organized by Students for a Democratic 
Society and the students from instructor Meggan Jordan’s So-
cial Problems class.
On the same day the Trustees approved block tuition, stu-dents rallied together to directly voice their opposition. Several of us met with and addressed members of the board, and we successfully pushed block tuition’s implementation back to fall 2012. I’m not saying Charles didn’t make the right choice in opposing block tuition at the Board of Trustees meeting. She 
did. I’m saying I don’t think she would have if not for the mass 
student resistance to block tuition across campus. 
If we’re going to stop block tuition once and for all, we need 
to remember a central lesson of the civil rights movement: Change doesn’t come from the top. 
Provost Joe Glover won’t wake up one day with an epipha-
ny that block tuition is bad for students. 
Student Government officials alone won’t stop the attack on 
working students. If we stop block tuition — and I pray we do 
— it’s the students alone whom we have to thank.
Dave Schneider is a Progress Party senator and member of  Stu-
dents for Democratic SocietyStudent activism responsible for stalling tuition overhaulColumn
Dave Schneider
Speaking OuttheAvenue         thursday, january 20, 2011
READ: Shit my Dad Says
Bogged down by textbooks and 
reading? Try this No. 1 “New 
York Times” bestseller about au-thor Justin Halpern’s experience 
in moving back in with a kooky 
parent 
— something we can all 
relate to.
SEE: No Strings Attached  
In this rom com, two best friends 
decide to sleep together and 
keep it strictly physical. Of course, an unconventional love 
blossoms. If that backward think-
ing doesn’t sound like college, we don’t know what does.
WATCH: The Real Housewives 
of Beverly Hills (Season Finale)
If you haven’t had your weekly 
fix of reality TV, check out this fist-throwing, profanity-blaring 
storm today at 10 p.m. on Bravo. 
HEAR: The Beginning
We gotta feeling the Black Eyed 
Peas are never going to stop. Meeting radios halfway with 
this club-worthy album, the pop 
power force is sure to bring forth tracks with enough boom boom  
to keep the party going all night.List
— LAUREN GOLDTheONLINE:INSIDE: 
For photos and extra Avenue 
scoop, go to www.alligator.org/the_avenue.PG 9: See what’s in store for local business Swamp Head Brewery.  
PG 10: Check out what’s play-
ing in UF jumper Will Claye’s headphonoes. PG 11: The Avenue gets green. For tips on planting, check out what local experts have to say.  
PG 12: Learn how to maximize your workout and eat a more well-balanced meal.
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Grow Radio DJ and Trey Woodard works at the Internet radio station in downtown Gainesville on Sunday. Woodard, also a UF 
alumnus, runs a female indie rock radio station.radio resurrected
Tune-up could be in store for local radio
BY BENJAMIN EVANS
avenue writer
President Barack Obama’s signing of the Lo-
cal Community Radio Act earlier this month gave 
music fans hope for a future of more diversity on the airwaves. The act allows for the development of hundreds of low-power FM (LPFM) stations 
across the country — something that has been a 
long-standing feat for industry workers, as many believe LPFMs cause too much interference with commercial radio stations.
Although the new legislation may seem good 
on paper, Randy Wright, director of multimedia properties at UF, said the changes won’t be as drastic as some think.
“The [act] was certainly born out of people 
wanting to try to do the right thing,” Wright said, “but these licenses are really handicapped by be -
ing so low-power and by being non-commercial.”
Even a larger LPFM with 100 watts only has 
a listening radius of 6 miles, meaning that if one was  put  in the center of Gainesville, it probably wouldn’t cover the whole town, he said.
But the real problem isn’t about how far the 
signals reach. Rather, it’s earning enough money 
required to start and run a LPFM, which can cost 
thousands upon thousands of dollars, Wright said. 
What worsens the financial situation for sta-
tions like this is that FCC regulations don’t allow LPFMs to sell advertising.
“It’s like you have one arm tied behind your back,” Wright said. “If the local stations could 
sell advertising, they would have a much better 
chance to succeed.”
So, what is there for people tired of hearing 
‘90s  alternative leftovers, teen pop and the same,  washed-up songs rotated over and over again?
Why, the Internet of course.Wright said he’s working with www.Rock104.
com to develop an online station that appeals to college students and focuses on local music.
Grow Radio, which aims to reach the commu -
nity via the Internet, is a Gainesville-born radio sta-
tion. Bill Bryson, the station’s manager and founder, moved to Gainesville in 1992 to open The Covered Dish, a music ven-ue he ran for eight years in the building that’s now local music venue Common Grounds.
“Not having a student-run 
college station was something I was aware of be -
fore I opened my club,” Bryson said. “I didn’t real-ize it would make as big a difference as it did.”
Bryson said he has seen various attempts to 
try to start a Gainesville college station, but noth-ing has ever stuck.
He decided on an Internet radio because it 
was an easy entry point, less costly than an FM 
radio station, and, more practical, as more people 
are using their computers and phones to listen to the radio.
On Sunday, upon entering Grow Radio’s quaint 
downtown station, it seemed eerily placid, and at first, empty. But two stickers on the door — one 
for Grow Radio, the other for Satellite Magazine, a 
Gainesville community magazine Bryson started — indicated this was the right place.
Eventually, DJ Trey Woodard opened the door to 
reveal a cozy, colorful room — covered in enough show posters to start a wing of a Gainesville mu -
sic museum. 
Woodard was inside, comfortably stationed 
at his desk and glancing at a computer monitor, 
turning knobs and scribbling things on a sheet of 
paper.
 Bryson and Woodard have known each other 
since the ‘90s, when Woodward went to UF. So, when Bryson approached Woodard and asked if he’d be interested in working for the station.
Woodard, sharing Bryson’s desire to cre -
ate a station that was purely local, joined.  
“No one should just be a country station or just 
an indie rock station or a rock ‘n’ roll station,” 
Woodard said. “[Bryson] wants there to be a Gainesville station.”
Online broadcasting appealed to him as well. 
It would be silly to think that the Internet and the radio won’t evolve to the point where it’s totally ac-cessible wherever you are, he said. But, Woodard does think that to be successful, online broad-casters will have to give people something extra 
to make them stand out from an iPod on shuffle.
“I’m pretty excited about the idea of people 
having access to the things that are more suited 
to them,” he said. “You’re not limited to the more cookie-cutter programming that’s out there.”thursday, january 20, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Q&A with Swamp Head Brewery owner Luke Kemper
u BREWERY TO OFFER NEW 
BREWS,  BOTTLED BEER AND 
NEW TAP ROOM
By RICHARD O. STEHLI
avenue writer
Local brewery owner Luke Kem-
per has a lot bottled up — one thing 
being patience. That’s what it’s tak -
en the owner of Swamp Head Brew -
ery, 3140 SW 42nd Way, to start growing his 1-year-old business.
In an exclusive interview with 
the Avenue, Kemper reflects on the business’ success and explains all that it takes to get the juices flow -
ing when trying to expand. Suffice to say, he’s got a few tasty surprises in store for local beer lovers, includ -
ing new bottled beer and a new tap room. 
Avenue: Let’s cut right to the 
chase.  What’s new on tap?Kemper: Hoggetowne Irish Red 
is a new one we made for this year’s Hoggetowne Medieval Faire.  We’re sending a couple of kegs out around 
town this week, and after that it will 
be on tap at the fair, along with four beers from our main lineup.
(Kemper hands me some to try.)
Avenue: It’s good. Very easy to 
drink.  Is there anything else going 
on in R&D around here?
Kemper: We’re always tweaking 
our main lineup, and lately we’ve been trying to pull a little more hop 
character out of Big Nose, our [India 
Pale Ale].  
We also have a new cascadian 
ale that wound up a little darker than the amber we were shooting for, so its color is a little reminiscent 
of swamp water.  Once we start bot-
tling, we have a farmhouse ale ready to brew, Saison du Swamp.  Avenue:  Bottling?  It’s about 
time.
Kemper: We’re looking at the end 
of February for that, but there’s a lot of red tape to start selling bottles.
Avenue: The tap room looks 
great.  When does it open for busi-ness?
Kemper: Soon.  We’re just about 
ready to go on our end, but again, 
there’s miles of red tape.  The state 
allows a beer producer to sell on premises as long as it promotes 
state and local tourism. 
I don’t think there’s really any 
question as to whether or not a brewery promotes tourism, it’s just 
a matter of convincing the right peo -
ple in the government.
Avenue: Paperwork and red 
tape.  That sounds like the hardest part of this job.
Kemper: It’s certainly the most 
frustrating.  All the rules and regu -
lations are ambiguous enough that 
you need clarification, and everyone 
tells you something different when you ask.  I talked to one person and 
got the green light to open the tap 
room, and a week later they told me the opposite, and so on.  Currently, 
the answer is yes — knock on wood.
Avenue: Bureaucracy aside, has 
business been good in your first 
year?
Kemper: Absolutely.  From the 
beginning we’ve only been grow -
ing.  Even now, we’re getting new 
accounts every week both in 
Gainesville and around north Flor -
ida.  It’s all we can do to keep up 
with everything.
Avenue: Any plans for expansion outside the region?
Kemper: We don’t want to ex-
pand until we’re sure that we can 
keep everyone at home totally hap-
py.  There’s more work to do right 
here in north Florida before we set our sights beyond that.
Avenue: You won’t be stepping 
on anyone’s toes if you branch out 
beyond your home state?  Other re -
gional breweries, maybe?
Kemper: I heard someone say, “A 
rising tide floats all boats.”  We’re 
not competing with other craft brew -
ers as much as trying to get every -
one to drink better beer.  Craft beer is only something like 4 percent of 
the U.S. beer market.  If, collectively, 
we bump that up to 5 percent, that’s a 25-percent increase for everyone.  
In a way we’re competitors, but at 
the end of the day we’re all on the same team.
iPhone lovers: Everything you need to know about Verizon
AT&T used to be my cell phone service provider — the key 
phrase there being “used to.” Dropped calls, poor phones and customer service staffed by incompetent gorillas are 
just some of the infamous issues the service provider is known for. Yet, people still cling to the carrier like submissive gimps — 
all thanks to the iPhone. If given the choice, a significant portion 
of AT&T’s customers would jump ship should the iPhone be re -
leased on a better service, say, for example, Verizon Wireless.
Religious tech junkies, your prayers have been answered. 
Steve Jobs has come down from the mountaintop bearing the Verizon iPhone in his billion-dollar hands. Truly, this is the reck -
oning.
However, not all is as it seems in the new promised land. For 
both current and future iPhone owners, there are a few impor -
tant things to consider before either ruling out or turning your back on AT&T. 
First and foremost, your brand new iPhone from AT&T will not 
carry over to Verizon. The two carriers use different technology for their service, requiring Apple to slightly modify the iPhone for Verizon’s network. Any apps bought through AT&T can still be accessed on a Verizon iPhone, but drop-ping another $300 for a 32G iPhone 4 is 
no small price. 
Second, it’s a common practice for 
carriers, not just AT&T, to bill you for as 
much money as you’re worth should you try to terminate your contract early. De -
pending on when you signed a contract, 
fees could reach up to $325. 
For those who live on the bleeding edge of technology and 
have wet dreams of a 4G iPhone, I would recommend hitting the 
snooze alarm. Despite the slight technical differences, the Veri-
zon iPhone will still be a 3G phone and not have the (misleading) heft of its 4G network. The Verizon version is also unable to talk and surf the web at the same time, if you’re into that sort of schizophrenic multi-tasking.
Verizon’s fairly priced, unlimited data plan at $30 a month is 
probably the carrier’s biggest advantage over AT&T, whose data plan maxes out at 2GB a month and is powered by duct tape and broken dreams.
For all of the jokes made at AT&T’s expense, the stability of its 
network has really been the carrier’s biggest weakness.  Really, the iPhone’s technical capabilities will be served much better on Verizon’s stronger and all-encompassing network — especially in the more rural parts of north-central Florida. If you’re a cur -
rent AT&T customer without an iPhone and are thinking about jumping ship, I’ll be honest with you: It’s probably worth making the switch. And if the iPhone isn’t your cup of tea, there’s always the Droid.
The Verizon iPhone will be available online and in Verizon and 
Apple stores Feb. 10, with pre-orders for existing Verizon custom-ers starting around Feb. 3. The 16GB version will retail at $200 and the 32GB version at $300, both for a two-year contract.
gamer bait  
Andrew Wyzan
Columnist10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, january 20, 2011
AMPED: UF jumper Will Claye
By KELLY RICHARD
avenue contributing writer
Four-time All-American jumper Will 
Claye has enjoyed soaring through the air 
since elementary school. And today, what really gives the UF athlete and 2009 NCAA outdoor men’s triple jump cham-
pion momentum is a super-energetic col-
lection of gospel and rap music. 
“Sometimes I play music so I can get 
crunk before I get ready to compete,” Claye said.
Earlier this week, Claye let us spring 
into his eardrums. Check out some of his favorite tracks:
“The Best in Me” by Marvin Sapp
“This song makes me feel good be-cause it reminds me that God is watching over me regardless of what is going on.”
“If I Ruled the World” by Nas (feat. 
Lauryn Hill)
“The beat is great, and Lauryn Hill can 
sing.”
“So Much Trouble in the World” by 
Bob Marley
“Bob Marley’s music is so smooth. I 
like his message because he talks about problems going on in the world.”
“Moon & Stars Remix” by Big K.R.I.T. 
(feat. Curren$y and Killa Kyleon)
“Curren$y is a smooth rapper, and I 
can vibe to this song.”
“Material” by Wiz Khalifa
“This is a really old song, but I can still 
vibe to it til this day.  It brings back good memories.”
“7 Days a Week” by Nipsey Hussle“This song motivates me to work 
hard. Nipsey Hussle raps about struggles in life, and that inspires me.”
“Too Deep for the Intro” by J. Cole“I can relate to a lot of things J. Cole 
says in this song.”
“Retrosuperfuture” by Rick Ross (feat. 
Wiz Khalifa)
“I can vibe to this song all day.  Rick 
Ross and Wiz are both great rappers.”
“Cost Me A Lot” by J. Cole“This song just makes me want to get 
up and do something.”
“Dangerous” by Kid Cudi“Kid Cudi is different, and I just like 
his style.”
Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
Adaobi Ibe, 19, pairs 
a purple cardigan 
with loosely fit denim 
trousers. This pharmacy 
major takes her look 
to the next level with 
accessories.  Her pearl 
earings, gold necklace, 
and fringe Prada purse 
add a touch of class to 
otherwise basic pieces.
Microbiology 
freshman John 
Masarik goes for 
an edgy look with a 
zipper embellished 
nylon track jacket. His 
styled hair, graphic 
T-shirt, and Converse 
shoes work well with 
the jacket for a laid 
back rock-and-roll 
vibe.For the latest frills, flair and every-
thing fashion, check out what our lens 
caught this week. 
Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Darren Domingo, 18, 
stays comfortable in 
a flannel shirt, jeans 
and TOMS.  Not only is 
he being charitable by 
wearing the shoes (for 
every pair of shoes 
bought, the company 
donates an additional 
pair to a child in 
need), but the bright 
red color matches his 
shirt perfectly.
Graduate student 
Odette Rivera, 22, 
opts for clothes 
that are all together 
cheap, cute and 
comfortable.  Her 
boots are from the 
Dolce Vita for Target 
line, scoring her 
designer names for 
an affordable price.Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator StaffPhoto Illustration by Max Reed and Cynthia Despres
UF jumper Will Claye, a University of Oklahoma transfer, stretches on the UF Percy Beard Stadium track on Wednesday.
Food for thought, & everything else
BY SHELBY WEBB
avenue contributing writer
Heads up, New Year’s resolution mak -
ers: It’s about three weeks into 2011. 
Have you kept your self-made promise? We’re betting about half of you have al-ready cracked — especially those who resolved to hit the gym and eat healthier.  It’s no easy feat. But sometimes, the res-olution to all your healthy lifestyle woes is 
simple: balance. 
Lucky for you, we’ve tracked down 
someone who knows all about that mag-
ic word —  a simple task that can help you eat better and have a more effective workout. 
Check out what UF nutrition and foods 
professor Linda Bobroff had to say when 
we asked her about some of her juiciest 
health secrets.
Avenue:  What’s the secret to getting 
all of the required nutrients for the day? 
Bobroff: Portion control. This will en-
sure you’re getting all the vitamins and nutrients you need, while making sure you don’t ingest too many calories or fats. 
Avenue: What should a well-balanced 
meal consist of?
Bobroff: Half of your plate should con-
sist of low-carbohydrate vegetables like lettuce, green beans, broccoli, cauliflower or other cooking greens. About a quarter 
of your plate should be protein, and the other quarter should be carbohydrates like rice, pasta, corn or peas.
Avenue: Several 
New Year’s resolutions involve hitting the gym more often. How can a new gym junkie ensure he or she gets the most out of a workout? 
Bobroff: Hydration is key for a good 
workout. I always urge student to drink 
plenty of fluids before, during and after 
working out. Avenue: And what’s better: water or 
Gatorade?
Bobroff: If you’re exercising for longer 
than an hour and it’s an intense workout, 
it’s necessary to replenish some of the 
electrolytes you’re using, as well as some 
of those carbohydrates for energy. That’s why Gatorade works well. The body stores some carbohydrates during exercise, but after about an hour or an hour-and-a-half of intense exercise, it’s necessary to re -
plenish them yourself.
Avenue: What should someone eat 
before he or she goes to workout?
Bobroff: About three to four hours 
before a workout, it’s good to eat a meal high in carbohydrates, moderate in pro-tein and fairly low in fat. Spaghetti and meatballs is a great meal that fulfills these needs.
For other information regarding impor -
tant nutrients and the foods they can be found in, head to www.mypyramid.gov.thursday, january 20, 2011  uALLIGATOR, 11
Not easy being green? With help, planting made simple
By BRITT PERKINS
avenue contributing writer
If you’re looking to revamp your 
home decor and your attitude, the 
resolution could be simple: Liven up your living space.
Adding living things to an apart-
ment or dorm makes people feel bet-
ter, experts say, and it’s no question 
that they add something personal as well. And if cleaning dirty hamster cages and fish tanks isn’t your thing, 
try something simple. Get a plant.
”[Plants] can give people a sense of purpose to know there is a living thing depending on them,” said Jef-
fery Hubbard, UF greenhouse man-ager.
Even if you’re not an expert gar -
dener, there are only a few simple things to remember. First, Hubbard said, there are certain varieties that are best suited to dorm and apart-ment life. 
“You want to get something that’s 
been grown in shade and is already adapted to those conditions,” Hub-bard said. “The harder to kill the bet-
ter.”Hubbard advised going to a small, 
local nursery to select plants. General-
ly, he said, employees there will have a 
deeper knowledge of the needs of 
each type of plant 
and can do a bet-ter job of matching you with a suitable green friend. In 
Gainesville, Hub-
bard recommended Garden Gate 
Nursery and Harmony Gardens. 
After selecting a plant, the next 
step is finding the right place to put it.There is a “recipe” for each plant, 
according to Garry Trafford, who has been selling plants at farmers mar -
kets across the state for 20 years, including at the Union Street Farmers 
Market, which is open every Wednes-
day from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. in downtown Gainesville.
Lucky bamboo,  a variety that’s ac-
tually not a bamboo at all, flourishes in 
low-light environments, Trafford said. 
Bonsai is another plant that’s good for plant keepers who are limited by space constraints, such as students 
and office workers. Plants that are also easily maintained in small areas include the bromeliad, orchid, ficus, 
aglaonema, sanseviera (or snake plant), dracena and chamaedorea palms. 
Price also makes these “pets” suit-
able for any budget, as they start at $6 each.
Just keep in mind, it’s not always 
“the wetter the better,” Hubbard said.
“Over-watering probably kills more 
plants than anything else,” he said. To avoid this, test the soil with your fin-ger. If it feels moist to the touch, it’s 
finished drinking.
By TYLER FRANCISCHINE
avenue contributing writer
For Gainesville rock quartet The Boswell-
ians, the show must go on — even when it gets 
canceled. 
On a chilly Tuesday night last week, mem-
bers of the band congregated at The Top Res-
taurant in downtown Gainesville, waiting to 
load set equipment for a performance at the Atlantic with Gainesville experimental duo Hear Hums. But less than an hour before the show was set to start, they received a text message informing them the show was off. Employees at the Atlantic declined to comment on the can-cellation.
After much pacing and rapid dialing on 
smart phones, the group, composed of Amy Lobasso, vocals and guitar; Ryan Backman, keyboards; Scott Kauffmann, bass; and Collin Whitlock, drums, ventured to downtown music venue Common Grounds.
If they couldn’t get on the bill there, they 
thought, at least the beer could keep them company. 
Determined to patch up the broken night, 
Lobasso walked instead into Brophy’s Pub, feeling inspired. A minute later, she left with a triumphant look gleaming in her eyes.
“We’re playing at Brophy’s,” she shouted to 
the group, which on that night also included vio -
linist Marc Hennessey, who performs both with The Boswellians and in To All My Dear Friends, an act he started.
By 11:30 p.m., concert plans had been fi-
nalized.
That in-demand venue-booking may be 
something the quartet can start getting used 
to, as its fan base has exploded to more than 
200 Facebook fans, and is sure to increase further after the group records its first EP in February.
The band’s schedule of shows also seems 
to be growing. Today at 8 p.m., they’re set to 
play a free show with Morningbell and To All my 
Dear Friends at the Orange & Brew, a comfy, intimate venue that’s similar to what they usu -
ally play.
Last week at Brophy’s Irish Pub, heads 
bobbed and feet tapped as Lobasso belted out a crowd favorite, “Don’t Wait for Me.” Whit-lock’s drumming emphasized the upbeats, as did Kauffmann’s bobbing head and Backman’s 
left leg, which softly tapped every beat.
When musicians Travis Atria and Dante Lima 
joined Whitlock, Kauffmann and Hennessey in 
an impromptu jam session, a crowd of friends and Brophy’s regulars pulled up bar stools, co-
zily positioned within feet of the band.
The performance wasn’t unlike the one on 
the night the two first bandmates met, a house 
show where Backman performed last March. Lobasso, impressed by the concert, contacted Backman afterward.
“I sensed we had similar music interests 
and sensibilities,” she said. 
In fact, the duo share much in common, in-
cluding a love for ‘60s pop bands like The Zom-bies and The Beach Boys, as well as a passion for George Gershwin compositions, especially “Rhapsody in Blue.”
Kauffmann and Whitlock joined the duo months later after seeing them perform in the 
fall.
Whitlock, as sarcastic as he is good-natured, 
said, “Me likey drums — put that in there,” of 
his initial involvement with the group. 
Backman said his goal is to create a distinct 
sound that is both interesting and accessible to all listeners.
“I’ve always appreciated musicians that 
have created a sound all their own,” he said.
Just as particular about its name as about 
its sound, the duo took time in choosing an ap-propriate band name.
They ended up striking gold while searching 
for puns on Wikipedia, an idea spurred from Lobasso, who likes puns.
Boswell is known for his 1791 work “The 
Life of Samuel Johnson,” the first truly compre -
hensive biography.
Backman said the adjective form of the 
name Boswellian means “a diligent follower of someone’s deeds and achievements.”
Lobasso thought the word reflected the 
band’s style —  fresh, yet antiquated. 
“Something about the way the word sounds 
embodies our spirit,” she said.
As for what the group’s future holds, Lobas-
so said it will probably involve more playing, more writing and “eating cake and riding uni-corns.12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, january 20, 2011
Microsoft laughs to the bank — and gamers have fun, too
By ANDREW WYZAN
avenue writer
The holiday season has descended into its dark, twilight 
hours. The hot-ticket items have gone back to sleep in stor -
age, and bottom-bin sales fill stores with the unwanted dregs of 
the free market. Last year in the technology industry, no items 
reigned more supreme than the Microsoft Kinect. 
As of Jan. 5, Microsoft shipped 8 million units of the device 
within the first 60 days of its release, and Xboxes are likely to be in short supply during January and February as the system rides off the Kinect’s coattails. 
R. U. Game?, 5186 SW 34th St. in Gainesville, was sold out 
of the Kinect  just days after its release, said store manager Jared Nash.
“Before we even had them in stock, every other day, people 
would call asking for them,” Nash said.
Much like when the Wii first dropped the warhead of change 
on the industry and sold like Wayfarers at a hipster convention, the Kinect is being embraced by mainstream culture more so than by hardcore gamers. 
And the device’s first wave of games are very similar to the 
Wii’s — almost to the point of being circumspect. For example, “Kinect Sports” performs the exact same function as “Wii 
Sports,” but with the absence of a controller.“Every thing I’ve seen about it is similar to how the Wii was,” 
Nash said.
While taking that into consideration, the two devices still 
couldn’t be more different. 
Simple waves of the hand turn the Xbox Dashboard into a 
scene from “Minority Report,” and the ability to pause a video 
just by saying “pause” gives the player the sense that he or she is in the future. Motion-tracking in “Kinect Sports” is close to a 
1-1 ratio, which makes boxing and table tennis a lot of fun, but 
the soccer game is fairly basic and, at times, odd. In fact, play -
ing a demo of the game at Best Buy left me with an unpleasant crick in my knee from kicking the ball too hard. 
UF criminology and Spanish senior Rachael Dunn received 
a Kinect for Christmas after seeing it in commercials and gush-ing to friends and family about how cool it looked, particularly the game “Dance Central.” Before she got the Kinect, she only 
played video games every now and then, most of the time “Call of Duty.”
“[The Kinect] looked cool, and I wanted to learn how to 
dance, I guess,” Dunn said. “I’ve only played it a couple of times 
so far, but when I do, I play for hours.”
Without a doubt, “Dance Central” makes the most out of the 
Kinect’s technology, tracking players’ body movements to an almost exact degree. The built-in camera also adds something special, recording the player at his or her most embarrassing moments — something that can provide plenty of laughs, as no player’s dignity is safe. 
Sliding to “Brick House” and doing the cabbage patch to 
“Bust a Move” is similar to “Rock Band,” yet the lack of a control -
ler makes immersion for the player all the greater. Sometimes, the game makes “Dance Dance Revolution” look like “Pong.”
And like the Wii, the Kinect can be used not only for fun and 
games, but also for a good workout.
“It’s an awesome alternative to the gym,” Dunn said.However, she said, the staying power of the system is ques -
tionable. 
“If new games don’t come out soon, it will get old,” Dunn 
said. 
Nash agreed, explaining he just couldn’t play a game like 
“Call of Duty” without a controller.
“It’s hard to tell how a full game would work on it,” Nash said, 
a problem the Wii, Kinect’s predecessor, maintains to this day.gaming  
“I’ve only played it a couple of times so far, but when I 
do, I play for hours.”
RACHAEL DUNN
UF criminology and Spanish seniorThe Boswellians to record first EP, perform tonight 
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Gainesville quartet The Boswellians pose for a photo on Sunday. The band performs today at 8 p.m. at the Orange & Brew on campus, with Morn-ingbell and To All My Dear Friends. From left to right: Ryan Backman, Collin Whitlock, Amy Lobasso, Marc Hennessey and Scott Kauffmann.
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-8-
15-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!
·         Available NOW and August!
·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com
4-20-70-21 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate Bathrooms
Cable w/HBO & Showtime
Full size W/D
Pet friendly
352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-2-10-30-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Immaculate small efficiency,quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets. 
1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.Avail 
Dec 27.$399/m 352-262-2871 Owner agent. 
1-24-11-14-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $550/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    1-20-11-10-2
LOW COST MOVE IN!Small 2BR $375/mo.
Call 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   1-20-11-10-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE
Sunroom, garage, updated. 3103 NW 4th 
Terrace. $825/mo. Call Andrea Martin, Keller-Williams Realty 352-281-3131   1-21-11-10-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    1-21-11-10-2
 ●●●●●●●   NEAR  UF   ●●●●●●●
4 Apts  2/1 in College  Park area
(5/3 House) (4/3 House) (3/2 House)
available for August  Manny  352-317-4408
info & pic  gainesvillestudentrentals.com
1-31-11-16-2
Studio for rent. Bedroom, kitchen, full bath-
room, total privacy. 3 miles from Butler plaza 
near Tower Square. $475.00 per month 
includes Utilities, Cable TV, & Internet Call 
352-378-4626 or 352-262-4290    1-28-11-
15-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shady lot. 
From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No 
pets. Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 
13th St. 376-5887    1-24-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2Available Aug 1st. 3BR/1BA very nice house, 
short bike, cent H/AC, dishwasher, disposal, 
W/D provided. Very private backyard with 
small garage. 924 NW 9th Ave. $1100/mo. 
Call 352-339-2342 Other houses available   
1-25-11-9-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th St       352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
●**ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month, 2BR 1BA Apts, 3  BLKS 
TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty 
of Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
●**CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF, New Carpet 
$450/Mo  $600 Deposit Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.
●**EFFICIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C, Carpet, 
Across from UF Stadium, 1830 NW 1st Ave  
$295/Mo, $300 Deposit
●** ROCKWOOD VILLAS:
5542 SW 8th Place $750/Mo, $800 Deposit. 
Pets Ok, 2BR 2BA, Newly painted, New 
Carpet, Tile Floors in LR, Inclds Washer/
Dryer, Pool, Tennis Courts, Bus Line to 
Shands & UF.     1-20-11-1-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 Other houses available   1-25-11-
9-2
2BR/1BA cabin, 20 acres. Fixer-upper. 
Horses/dogs welcome. 27802 SW 120th Lane, Newberry. $555/mo. Comes with horse. Long driveway. In Gothe State Forest. Call 330-329-8834    1-26-10-214, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011
*5 BEDROOM HOUSE*
Walk to class. Right Across from The 
Swamp stadium. Available Aug 1st.
Wood Floors. Lots of parking. Please call 
John @ (561) 866-8234 for further info
1-21-6-2
3 bd 1 ba in NE Gville . Beautiful, restored 
hardwood floors, stainless steel appliances, 
W/D, front porch, back deck, fresh paint. Lg 
fenced property, Pets OK. Great location. 
Available now. 516-459-7654.    1-24-11-5-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-25-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA house. 
Beautiful wd flrs, fireplace, good size rooms. 
W/D provided, fenced yard. Pet ok. CH/AC, 
DW, 830 NW 16th Ave. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342  gainesvillequalityrentalhousese.com   
1-25-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-25-11-4-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com     1-25-11-4-2Walk to Midtown 1536 NW 3ave
$545 2br/1bth pet friendly
356-260-8925                 1-24-3-3
Ml needed to sublease 1 br in 2br/1b apt. 
Within walking distance of campus: 130 N. W. 9th Terr, apt. 206. $325. Jan. rent pd. Sublease from 2/11-7/11. Email gatorgal24@gmail.com OR contact Mitchell Realty 352-374-8579 for details.    1-25-11-4-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $425/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79291-31-10-42-41st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo 
at Countryside. $425/month. Short term 
lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 
bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   
1-21-11-11-4
Large Room in NW Home.
$450/mo incl utils & DSL, large closets. No 
pets. Mature, non-smoker, grad student/professional. Scott 352-335-8209   1-20-11-10-4
Roommate wanted- Share nice clean NW 
area 3 Br, 2 bath single family home with two 
senior UF students- fenced back yard- wash-
er/ dryer-fireplace- $320 mo. & 1/3 utilities. 
Call Jon-321-537-5640 or 352-665-9547    
1-21-11-10-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-
pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! 
Call 850-974-0686   1-21-11-10-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
2BR/1.5BA newly renovated townhouse. 
6134 SW 8th Lane. You have to see it to 
appreciate it! Come see it and make an of-
fer. Call 352-281-7411 or 786-537-2963 and 
make an appointment   1-31-11-17-5
Rent to Buy. 2BR/2BA Capstone Quarters 
Condo Near Shands. Private porch, back-yard, new carpet, paint and appliances. Community Pool, $650/mo. $54,900 Call 352-378-4626   1-28-11-15-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests 
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
WATERBED FOR SALE
Willing to deliver. Pictures available. Asking $150. MUST GO TODAY. 352-377-5560    1-26-5-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
iPad Owners
www.CaptureNotes.com
is the BEST note taking app for the iPad
Created by Gators for Gators!
G8R Software, LLC - GO GATORS!
1-28-8-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit 
shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-
70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
2009 KIA 4DR SPECTRA LX
left over model only 250 miles 30+mpg cold a/c & factory warranty beautiful black exterior gray interior $8450 located gville 352-284-1047   1-20-11-2-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948    
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   1-25-10-20-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Flexible, minimum 20 weekday hours. Excellent Word, Excel, typ-ing, internet skills. $7.25/hr. Indicate, major, graduating semester, available schedule.  siva1950@yahoo.com   1-28-11-22-14University Athletic Association - Accounting
Currently seeking flexible individual for part-
time (OPS) filing clerk. Varied duties includ -
ing data entry and filing. Experienced in Microsoft Excel & good organizational skills 
required. Minimum wage position averag -
ing 20 hour per week. Please fax resume to 
(352) 375-5182.     1-26-11-12-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
Local high school is seeking an Assistant 
JV Coach for its girls lacrosse team. Playing 
experience is required. Paid position from 
1/31 - 4/9. Contact Lynn at 352-378-5476 for 
more information.   1-21-11-8-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced Part time. 
Some weekends and holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
1-21-11-7-14
Computer tech, Skills to repair comps. Must 
have car. Be honest, available, dependable. 
Part time, make own hours. hr@blue4.com    
1-26-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   2-9-20-14Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
What's black and white & read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, 
Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. Compensation will be provided. If interested, call 336-406-3706 or emailuflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-28-14-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-63002-4-11-20-14
CAREER POSITIONS
Stay in Gainesville. Great benefits and op-portunities. Flexible hours.
● ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
● SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com
1-21-11-10-1416, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-2-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
NPD Online Research $9.50/hr+
P/T Product Researchers and Testers
Keep the products you test, and write a short 
review. Good English skills required. Apply at 
www.PaidOnlineResearch.info   1-20-5-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, 
clean building, very minor mechanical, hours
1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]
12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   
11-20-11-5-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.
1-24-11-7-14
CONSTRUCTION SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
Full or part time student. Responsibilities - 
AutoCAD, SketchUp. Assist with planning 
hanger, putting green, guest house, swim-ming pool, fountain construction and main-tenance of multiple business and residence 
properties. Back up Shipping, yard main-
tenance. Apply at http://www.gleim.com.    
1-27-11-10-14MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm 
& 3:30-9:30pm, M-F & wkends. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    1-27-11-10-14
Looking for Masters of Accounting Student 
to conduct an Activity Based Cost Analysis. 
Two week project, pays $15/hr. Please send 
resume and cover letter to
wecare@chestnutfirm.com    1-21-11-5-14
Science Assessment Editor Needed - FT
Progress Testing seeks individual with out-
standing science, editorial, and organiza -
tional skills to join editorial team in maintain -
ing and expanding our test item banks for 
K-12 schools. Prior teaching exp pref. Send 
resume to lbresko@progresstesting.com   
1-21-11-4-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT
PT or FT for a doctor's office. Experience 
preferred. Email resume to:snpohani@gmail.com          1-24-11-5-14
Looking to have fun while working hard and 
staying in shape? 1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing gals/guys to cover mainly Tu, We, or Th morning Truck Team shifts. Other shifts available. +21 age req'd for insurance. $8.50 
- $11/hr. Email cover letter and resume to 
cameron.lansdell@1800gotjunk.com1-24-11-5-14AFTER SCHOOL SUPERVISOR for
2010-2011 school year, $9.00 hr+ to start. Apply 8505 NW 39th Ave. GNV    1-24-11-
5-14
EARN UP TO $300/DAY! Bartending!!! No 
experience necessary. We train you! 888-
575-TIPS (8477)           1-25-11-5-14
Newborn Photographer
Work with babies and excited families! 
Our365 is seeking an energetic person with 
sales or photography experience to take pho-
tos of newborns at North Florida Regional. 
Part-time. Apply online at
www.our365.com/opportunities.    1-21-11-
2-14
MOBILE WAITERS NEEDED - Immediate 
Interviews. Make your own schedule, flex-
ible hours, avg. $50-$60 per shift. Must be 
21+ years, have own vehicle and cell phone. 
www.d-d-i.com or call 888-DDI-WORK ext. 1    
1-21-11-2-14
SERVERS
Experienced & Friendly. Evenings & week-ends. Apply in person, NAPOLATANOS - 606 NW 75th St.    1-25-11-4-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITYWHY PAY MORE? 371 9696www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Reading and 
Writing Center offers this workshop Monday - Thursday, January 24 – 28.  Verbal ses-sions on M&R, Math sessions on T&W; each session from 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.    1-24-3-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 17
Sports
THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
SEC EAST BASKETBALL RECORDS SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE AWARDS TEEING OFF WITH TYLER JETTMatt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida junior guard Erving Walker is shooting 44.8 percent from three-point range this season, serving as the Gators’ most dependable of-
fensive threat. Without Walker, UF would drop from fourth to last in the Southeastern Conference in three-point shooting percentage.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
When Erving Walker missed 
a potentially game-changing free 
throw in the closing moments of Saturday’s game, he likely took it 
harder than anybody. 
The junior guard is considered 
one of the team’s most competi-
tive and clutch players, but his miss against South Carolina led to a 72-69 defeat. 
Lost in Walker’s final faux pas 
is that he once again led Florida in scoring and is the team’s most con-
sistent offensive weapon as it heads 
to Auburn to face off against the Ti-
gers (7-10, 0-3 Southeastern Confer -
ence) tonight at 7. 
“Erv is just playing with a clear 
head, and he’s got a lot of confi-
dence,” sophomore guard Kenny Boynton said last week.  
Confidence has been key for a 
number of the streaky shooters for 
the Gators (13-4, 2-1 SEC), and right 
now, Walker has reason to believe in himself. 
The junior has connected on 51.4 
percent of his threes over the last six games, carrying a team that oth-Walker remains consistent amid streaky UF offense
n Nobody is sadder about the Rams QBs coach retiring than 
Sam Bradford. When things got tough, nothing comforted 
the young QB like wrapping himself around 70-year-old Dick Curl. … Following President Hu Jintao’s recent visit to Wash-ington, China pledged to crack down on software piracy. It will now be limiting each family to just one pirate.South Carolina
FloridaKentuckyVanderbiltGeorgiaTennessee 3-1, 12-5 overall
2-1, 13-4 overall
2-2, 14-4 overall
2-2, 13-4 overall2-2, 13-4 overall
2-2, 12-6 overalln Alaina Johnson of the gymnastics team wasn’t Florida’s 
only SEC Freshman of the Week. UF distance runner Cory 
McGee, who holds the nation’s top freshman times in the mile and 3,000-meter run, took home the same award — as did Gators swimmer Connor Signorin.By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
When Florida and Kentucky 
square off in the O’Connell Center tonight at 7, the Gators will be up against more than just the No. 19 team in the nation.
UF is also faced with the ardu-
ous task of trying to stop the reign-ing Southeastern Conference Player of the Year, senior forward Victoria Dunlap. 
The 6-foot-1 Dunlap has been 
held under 10 points just twice this season, with both coming in blowout victories against inferior opponents, and 
her 17.7 scoring average is currently Florida preparing for 
UK forward DunlapSEE HOOPS, PAGE 19
SEE TYLER, PAGE 19SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 19Gators can’t be satisfied with wins  
Gators fans, expect to be happy by the end 
of the night.
Your basketball team has no excuses 
heading into Auburn. They just lost their first conference game, so overlooking this one won’t 
be an issue. Plus, it’s Auburn, traditionally the 
worst team in the Southeastern Conference West, which is like being the fattest kid at Camp Hope.
The real question, however, is how will Flori-
da celebrate this victory? Will your Gators buckle down, realizing those put-up-or-shut-up Febru-ary and March games are around the corner? Or will they forget what happened last weekend, falling back into a lull until a legitimate threat wakes them up again?
Florida should have shown more urgency on 
defense Saturday against South Carolina. 
In eight nonconference games against teams 
in the RPI top 100, the Gators were allowing 63.1 points per game on 39.9 percent shooting. But in the two SEC games prior to Saturday , Florida had surrendered 73 points per game on 47 per -cent shooting.
From the opening 
tipoff, the Gators tried to go shot-for-shot with the Gamecocks. It didn’t 
work. South Carolina 
shot 48 percent in the first half. Florida shot 27 per -
cent and ultimately lost 72-69.
The defense didn’t im-
prove sooner because it 
didn’t need to. The Gators were winning.
“When you lose, things get brought out a lot 
more,” junior point guard Erving Walker said. “So, you’re able to focus on what’s wrong a lot 
more than if you win. As a whole, I’d say with 
everybody that’s kind of human nature.”
But that shouldn’t be the case, especially with 
this group. Coach Billy Donovan starts the same 
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @JettStreamin“Erv is just playing with a 
clear head, and he’s got a 
lot of confidence.”
Kenny Boynton
Florida sophomore guard
Women's
Bask etballTHURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
AP Photo
Kentucky forward Victoria Dunlap is a candidate for the John R. 
Wooden Award, given to the nation’s best player.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
The Gators hosted their last tune-up 
for the 2011 season on Wednesday as they 
squared off against the U.S. Junior National Team at Linder Stadium. 
Comprised of the top 16- and 17-year-
old tennis players in the nation, the wom-en’s team certainly came to play as it faced Florida in both singles and doubles action. 
No live scores or names of the players 
could be released because the members of the U.S. Junior National Team are re-cruitable athletes, a UF spokesperson said. Junior Joanna Mather put on a strong 
showing at the event. The Gators’ leader was excellent in singles and paired with Lauren Embree as UF’s No. 1 doubles 
team. 
After a subpar performance in Las Ve-
gas last weekend, Mather and Embree com-
municated and played much better in this 
match, coach Roland Thornqvist said. 
Wednesday’s performance was another 
step in the right direction for Embree, who 
is still working her back to full strength fol-lowing a wrist injury. 
“She’s looking better and better in prac-tice,” Thornqvist said. “It takes time to get her confidence back, but she’s been hitting the ball well.” 
Despite the team’s strong 
singles play, its doubles play still needs work. 
“We’re not as sharp in 
doubles now as we can be,” 
Thornqvist said. “That has 
been evident in the past couple of weeks. 
There are a lot of little things we need to get better at.” 
Thornqvist believes the team’s doubles 
play will improve as it begins to practice to-gether more often, something that has been 
difficult to do the past few months with 
several players traveling to compete in dif-ferent tournaments. 
While certain pairs need to get better 
offensively and others must do so defen-
sively, Thornqvist is not overly concerned 
about the team’s ability to improve. 
One reason for optimism this spring is 
the team’s strong freshman class. 
Between Alex Cercone, Sofie Oyen and 
Olivia Janowicz, the Gators have three players who have  the experience and tal-ent to be major contributors. 
“We’re going to count on them a lot,” 
Thornqvist said. “They have played major junior competition and had great falls.”Mather shines as Gators face U.S. Junior National Team
Florida aims to limit Dunlap’s rebounds
tops in the SEC.
But ask UF team captain Azania Stewart if Dunlap 
can be stopped, and the Florida center doesn’t hesitate 
to respond confidently.
“There’s always a way to stop her,” Stewart said. 
“You’ve got to get into her head and you’ve got to play 
early defense. Dunlap is playing great right now, and 
we know that if they need a play or a big bucket, it’s going in to her.”
Although coach Amanda Butler said they will em-
ploy double teams in an effort to contain Dunlap, she wouldn’t go as far to say that one of the nation’s best scorers can be kept in check. 
“I certainly hope [we can stop her],” Butler said. 
“I don’t think it’s one of those challenges that’s a one-
woman job. We’ll probably have a couple different ap-
proaches to try and neutralize her a little bit — if it’s possible.”
In addition to her ability to score, Dunlap is also an 
accomplished defender.  The Wildcats senior leads the 
SEC and is seventh in the nation in steals, a rare feat for 
a power forward. She is also tied for third with Stewart for the conference lead in blocked shots.
However, Butler said the most important part of 
Dunlap’s game, and the aspect that Florida must sup-
press in order to succeed, is her ability on the glass.
A candidate for the John R. Wooden Award, which 
goes to the nation’s best player, Dunlap is third in the 
SEC with a 9.3 rebounding average. She also racks up 
an average of 3.5 offensive rebounds per game, which, 
Butler said, is a major component of her offensive at-
tack. “Where a lot of her points come from are second 
chances,” Butler said. “She’s playing very , very well, and no question, [she’s] the leader for that team, statisti-
cally and emotionally.”
Dunlap’s leadership is something that can’t be over -
looked.  
The Gators, who have struggled containing their op-
position’s star players, are searching for a leader of their own to step up in pivotal moments and provide similar 
direction. 
Against Georgia on Sunday, Florida allowed the 
Bulldogs’ leading scorer, Jasmine James, to knock down three wide-open looks from long distance in the wan-
ing minutes to put the dagger in a 16-point, come-from-
behind victory.
“One of the things about this team that’s been re-
warding on one hand and frustrating on the other is that 
we’ve learned a lot of lessons, but we’ve unfortunately had to learn them the hard way,” Butler said.
After two consecutive unsettling defeats, multiple 
Gators said the opportunity of a home game against Dunlap and Kentucky provides a shot at redemption. 
“It’s going to a challenge for these young guys and 
us to … show the fans that we weren’t who we were against Tennessee,” guard Jordan Jones said. “That’s one thing this team responds to is — a challenge.”W-HOOPS , from page 18
Turnovers remain problematic for PG
erwise struggles from beyond the arc. Florida 
currently ranks fourth in the SEC in three-point shooting percentage (35.5 percent) but 
would be last without Walker (31.3 percent). 
Walker has been a spark plug for an offense 
that often becomes stagnant in its half-court 
sets, as he has scored in double figures in eight 
consecutive contests and leads the team at 14.5 
points per game.  
“Erving has hit some deep shots, crazy 
shots,” Boynton said. “And that just brings 
up our intensity and gives us energy on de-
fense.”
Walker’s play only improves with the 
game on the line. The Gators consistently trust him to handle the ball and run the offense as 
pressure from both defenses and situations 
mounts in the closing moments. 
The junior is a career 80 percent free-throw 
shooter in the final three minutes of games, in-cluding 19 for 26 this season. 
“He’s got a competitiveness and a competi-
tive streak that he really probably gets more displeasure out of losing than he does pleasure 
out of winning,” coach Billy Donovan said. 
Although Walker has established himself 
as a scorer, he is still working on developing better decision-making skills. 
The junior has recorded just 55 assists to 
49 turnovers this year, far below the 2-to-1 ra-
tio Donovan would like to see from his point guard. 
“He is one of those guys 
that I think he wants the ball, he wants to try to make things happen,” Donovan 
said. “And I think that that 
can be a negative, too.”
At times, Walker has 
been guilty of driving into the lane and leav-ing his feet against multiple defenders. 
Donovan said Walker sees alleys and open-
ings that either get closed off or weren’t there to begin with, and that this leads to unneces-sary, but correctable, turnovers. 
“It’s a fine line with him,” Donovan said. 
“You want him to be aggressive, and he has made some terrific plays where he gets in there. Sometimes it can be feast or famine.”HOOPS , from page 18
number of seniors this season (three) as 
he has the last six seasons combined. 
Anybody who has been in 
Gainesville since 2008 knows this team has a tendency to fade down the 
stretch. 
In the past three years, Florida is 19-
23 in February and beyond, including 
postseason games. From November to January in those seasons, the Gators are 51-13.
In part, Florida’s early season re-
cords are boosted by cupcakes. But the Gators are still a .500 team against op-
ponents in the RPI top 100 before Feb-
ruary . 
Based on how it starts seasons, UF 
should be able to finish stronger.
The Gators were picked to do well 
in the preseason because of their expe-rience. The juniors and seniors know how much it hurts to finish the year on a bad note. If Florida wants to avoid more late-season disappointments, it should address issues like its sagging 
defense before it’s too late.
Otherwise, the only changes will 
come after losses like Saturday’s.
“You have to look at where you 
need to get better,” Donovan said, 
“and I think that winning is the best ingredient. The best way you want to learn is through winning. It’s not fun having to learn through losing.”
Make no mistake: Florida will learn 
through its losses. But lessons can be learned in a less painful way if a vet-eran team plays with maturity , like it should. 
The Gators won’t be back on the 
right track simply with a win tonight. They will be back on the right track 
when they watch film on Friday and 
become their own harshest critics. 
If they don’t, everybody else will.TYLER , from page 18
Men's
Bask etball“We’ll probably have a couple different 
approaches to try and neutralize her a 
little bit — if it’s possible.”
Amanda Butler
UF women’s basketball coach, on Victoria DunlapTennisCoach seeks doubles improvement as season continuesBy ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
 
It used to be every gymnast for herself. 
Now, they give it all for the team. 
The realm of college gymnastics is 
far different from the club sport that the 
gymnasts have competed in most of their lives. 
Florida carries five freshmen this sea-
son, and they are all adjusting to the tran-sition. 
“It’s quite a big difference. With club 
gymnastics, it’s centered more around 
individual gymnastics,” coach Rhonda 
Faehn said. “In college, it’s solely about the team. They have individual results and individual accolades, but the decisions we make as a coaching staff are always geared 
toward the success of the team.”
Faehn said two-time Southeastern 
Conference Freshman of the Week Alai-
na Johnson came in as an elite gymnast, 
competing by herself most of her career. 
Now an all-arounder for the Gators, John-son has still been reeling in the individual awards — but with the mindset to do it for the team.
“This is a big change,” Johnson said. 
“I’ve had team support, but not as much 
as what I have now. It’s different because 
we’re all pulling for each other and want-ing the same exact goal.”
Fellow freshman Mackenzie Caquatto, 
Johnson’s roommate, had a taste of com-peting as a unit rather than an individual 
when she performed as part of the United 
States team in the 2010 World Champion-ships in the Netherlands.  
“At Worlds, it was about competing for Team U.S.A. and just representing and do-
ing your part in each event, which is kind 
of like it is here,” she said. “We each have our events that we do, and we’re compet-ing for the team.” Caquatto said in club gymnastics ath-
letes focus more on how many events they can do. But she added that at the college level, it’s about perfecting your skills and 
focusing on specialization. 
Though Caquatto entered UF as an all-
around competitor, she has only competed 
in uneven parallel bars and balance beam this season. In last week’s meet against 
Kentucky, she posted a 9.900 on bars and 
tied for third on balance beam. 
Freshman gymnast Brittney Noble said 
a big difference between club and college 
is the enjoyment. 
“It’s so much more fun than club gym-
nastics,” she said. “It’s much more of a 
team environment and, personally, I love that aspect of it and bonding with the girls 
and running to the end of the vault when 
somebody finishes a vault. You can be louder, you can cheer, you can be crazy.”
Following last week’s meet, Johnson 
said her voice was gone because she was cheering for her team so loudly. 
Because they are competing for the 
team, Faehn said athletes are under more pressure than they may have experienced 
in club gymnastics. 
“The athletes feel they don’t want to let 
their teammates down,” Faehn said. “At 
the same time it’s far greater enjoyment 
for them because they have their team 
cheering for them, supporting them along the way. 
“From what experience I’ve had and 
what the athletes would say, it’s far more 
tremendous to be able to have a team help 
you and share in the success.”20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman gymnast Alaina Johnson is one of five first-year athletes on this year’s 
Gators squad who have had to make the leap from club competition to college.
Jump to college sparks change of focus for freshmen
Former club gymnasts adjust to team competition