VOLUME 106 ISSUE 71 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Darts and Laurels
The Editorial Board looks back at the past week, pg 6.  
UF Chemistry Club posts tutoring videos on YouTube
The members explain General Chemistry 1 problems, pg 9.   MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  For those who want to own a Paynes Prai-
rie Preserve State Park bison, the application deadline is approaching.
  The requests for proposals, which will de-
termine who will get to remove and keep the bison, are due Dec. 6 to the Florida Depart-ment of Environmental Protection. They were sent out Nov. 4.
  Jessica Sims, spokeswoman for the Florida 
Department of Environmental Protection, said the proposals will be reviewed this month, and a vendor will be picked before 2012.
  The department will not know the exact 
date the process will begin, how long it will take, how much it will cost or the details of the removal until a vendor is selected, Sims wrote in an email.
  David Jowers, Paynes Prairie Preserve 
State Park manager, is directing all questions about the bison to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.
  The department decided in spring to re-
move all adult, male bison from the herd of about 60. 
  Since then, some animal activists and park 
enthusiasts have protested the removal, say-ing it will decrease the area’s cultural heritage and possibly lead to the slaughter of the ani-mals.
  A public meeting was held in December 
2010, when some Alachua County residents advocated keeping the animals in the park.
  “Are you going to literally kill these crea-
tures?” activist Lisa Grossman asked at the meeting.
  “No, we don’t plan to kill anything,” said 
Dan Pearson, environmental specialist for the Florida Park Service.
  “Would you purposely sell them to people 
you think are going to slaughter them?” she asked.
  “I hope not,” he answered. 
Florida takes on No. 4 Syracuse
The No. 10 Gators travel to Syracuse, N.Y., 
tonight to take on the Orange at 7, pg. 20. 
Video games 
are becoming 
popular teaching 
tools in college 
classrooms.
See story, page 
11.
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 14CROSSWORD  17
SPORTS 2072/49 Joey Flechas / Alligator Staff
  Jose Soto, a fourth-year Ph.D. candidate in food and resource economics, 31, left, and anthropology 
junior Robbey Hayes, 22, right, lead a group of about 60 protesters to Emerson Alumni Hall, where the UF Board of Trustees met Thursday. They rallied against tuition and fees increases. 
ERIN JESTER and
  JOEY FLECHAS
 Alligator Staff Writers
  With a gallery of administra-
tors, protesters and Student Gov-ernment ofﬁ  cials present, the UF Board of Trustees met Thursday to address issues ranging from new student fees to the proposed Reitz Union renovation.
  The board’s Committee on 
Educational Policy & Strategy ap-proved a proposal for a new un-dergraduate enhancement fee that would supplement graduate assis-tant stipends.
  The committee comprises the 
full board, which will meet today.
  If the Board of Governors, the 
state university system’s highest governing body, approves the fee, undergraduate students will pay $89 per semester or $178 per year throughout their undergraduate education. The new fee would not be covered by the Florida Bright Futures Scholarship.
  UF President Bernie Machen 
spoke about the impact graduate assistants have on undergradu-ate education, citing the bulk of instruction they provide to under-graduate students.
  Student Body President Antho-
ny Reynolds abstained from the vote, saying he did not feel com-fortable taking a stance.
  “After careful thought, I real-
ized that I represent undergradu-ate and graduate students,” Reyn-
olds said.
  After speak-
ing with mem-bers of Gradu-ate Assistants United, who asked the Board of Trustees at the meeting to elimi-nate graduate as-
sistant fees, Machen said he is will-ing to discuss the concerns after the beginning of the new year. 
  “I think there’s some common 
ground in there that we can work over,” he said. 
  The Board also approved  Trustees vote to approve new undergraduate fee  
� UF HAS A STRICT ANTI-HAZING POLICY.
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
  It has been 13 days since the death 
of Florida A&M University drum major 
Robert Champion, and the nation is still in shock.
  Four students have been dismissed, 
band director Julian White has been ﬁ  red, and while the head of Florida’s university system is calling for an inves-tigation of the school, Gov. Rick Scott has called for a re-evaluation of Florida uni-versities’ hazing policies.
  UF has a strict no-hazing policy that 
deﬁ  nes hazing as any action or situation that “endangers the mental or physical health or safety of a student for the pur-pose of initiation or admission into or af-ﬁ  liation with any organization.”
  In Florida, hazing in high school or 
college is a crime. If the hazing causes se-rious injury or death, it is a third-degree felony.
  Chris Loschiavo, director of UF’s 
Ofﬁ  ce of Student Conduct and Conﬂ  ict Resolution, said he receives about two to three hazing complaints a semester. Complaints are often anonymous, he said, and he has yet to deal with any-thing as serious as a student’s death.
  Once the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce 
hears a complaint, it begins an investi-gation of the claims. If a complaint were serious or criminal in nature, University Police would be involved, he said.
  According to a study conducted by 
the National Collaborative for Hazing Research and Prevention, about 55 per-cent of U.S. college students experience some sort of hazing.UF reacts to FAMU student’s 
death, hazing investigationLOCAL
 Deadline to own Paynes 
Prairie bison approachesSEE TRUSTEES, PAGE 8
SEE HAZING, PAGE 8Machen
“No, we don’t plan to kill any-
thing.”  
Dan Pearson
environmental specialist for the                     
Florida Park ServiceNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 71 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Karly Kehres, 
  Jillian Kremer, Kathryn Milstein,   
  Adrianna Paidas, Shayna Posses,   
  Marissa Prieto, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus
 C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/49PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/53PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/52TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Dancin’ Gators Fall Dance 
Showcase
Today, 8 p.m.Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsStyles of dance showcased in-clude: jazz, tap, hip-hop, pointe, contemporary , swing, Irish, bhangra, Bollywood, Spanish and more. Doors open at 7:30 p.m., and admission is free. Alachua County Public Schools will be at the show collecting donations of canned food items to provide Alachua families with a holiday meal. For more information, visit www.dancin-gators.weebly .com. 
Inspi(RED) Soccer Charity 
TournamentSaturday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.Maguire FieldThe ONE campaign at UF and Kappa Delta sorority will co-host a 6v6 charity soccer tour -
nament at Maguire Field. All proceeds will go to Grassroot Soccer, an organization that harnesses the global popular -
ity of soccer to help prevent the spread of AIDS worldwide. Teams can register at www.grassrootsoccer.org/inspired-soccer/tournament-calendar/. Registration costs $4 per player. Free agents are welcome to sign up. More information about the Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly for -
matted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORReCtiOn
In Thursday’s edition of the 
Alligator, a headline for an ar -
ticle incorrectly stated that a former UF professor was sen-tenced to four years in pris-on. He was sentenced to six months.tournament is available on the 
registration site. There will be prizes for the best teams.
Food for Thought
 Sunday, 8 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Marston Library , Library 
WestFood for Thought will provide students with an opportunity to take a break from studying  by providing refreshments, an inflatable obstacle course and a photo booth. There will also be an arts and crafts sta-tion and a stress relief station. Tutoring Zone tutors will be available to offer students study hints and assistance in studying for exams. There will be an opportunity to win lap desks, survival bags, stick-ers and coupons for review sessions at Tutoring Zone.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — House Re-
publicans are drafting legislation 
to renew an expiring unemploy-ment benefits program, officials said Thursday, and intend to add it to a planned extension of a Social Security payroll tax cut due to run out on Dec. 31.
The measure is expected on 
the House floor as early as next week. It marks the second sign in as many days that lawmakers in both parties are eager to close out the year with a compromise on key elements of President Barack Obama’s jobs program.
Republican officials say the cost 
of the extension of both programs will be covered within the mea-sure, making sure deficits don’t rise as a result.
The officials who spoke did so 
on the condition of anonymity to provide details in advance of a for -
mal announcement.
With unemployment hover -
ing around 9 percent nationally , Obama urged Congress in Septem-ber to renew and expand the pay-roll tax cut he signed a year ago and called for an extension of ben-efits that can cover up to 99 weeks for the long-term jobless.
The core state-paid unemploy-
ment insurance program guaran-tees coverage for six months, but Congress typically has provided additional weeks of federal jobless benefits in bad times. The latest cycle of additional benefits began in 2008, the last year of George W. Bush’s administration.
Letting extended jobless as-
sistance expire would mean that about 6 million people would lose benefits averaging $296 a week next year, with 1.8 million cut off within a month.
It was unclear what changes, 
if any, Republicans intend to pro-
pose for the unemployment benefits portion 
of the bill.
A struggle 
already has broken out over steps to pay for the payroll tax increase.
Senate Democrats want to levy 
a 3.5 percent surtax on million-dollar tax filers to cover the costs, while Senate Republicans unveiled an alternative on Wednesday that relies on freezing federal workers’ pay through 2015 and reducing the government’s bureaucracy by 200,000 jobs. The bill also would raise Medicare premiums for the wealthy and take steps to deny unemployment benefits and food stamps to anyone with a seven-figure income.
Senate Republicans said their 
legislation would offset the cost of the payroll tax cut extension and generate about $110 billion in ad-ditional savings that could reduce deficits. They circulated statistics from the Internal Revenue Ser -
vice reporting that tax filers with $1 million or more in income had received a total of $20.8 million in unemployment benefits in 2009, the latest year for which figures are available. Their bill would impose a 100 percent tax on those pay-ments.
Neither of the two alternatives 
appears likely to win the 60-vote Senate majority needed to advance in votes anticipated Thursday night, a double-barreled rejection that would presumably clear the way for final negotiations on a compromise.
With lawmakers eager to ad-
journ for the year at midmonth, Republican and Democratic lead-ers have also begun discussions on legislation to avert a 27 percent cut in payments to doctors who treat Medicare patients, officials said.
The measure generally has bi-
partisan support, since it has the backing of the American Medical Association as well as patient ad-vocacy groups.
Proposed House Republican bill would renew jobless benefit
AP Photo
After a meeting with GOP Supercommittee members, House Speaker John Boehner walks to vote on the House floor Wednesday.
Obama
4, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
student life
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
At UF, three out of 10 students do not 
know their HIV status.
On Thursday, in honor of World AIDS 
Day, GatorWell encouraged those students 
to find out.
The on-campus counseling service, along 
with Eta Sigma Gamma and the College of Health and Human Performance, offered free HIV testing from 5:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in the Florida Gym. The testing was held as part of GatorWell’s third-annual World AIDS Day event.
About 100 students registered to get test-
ed.
“It’s a day where we can highlight the 
importance of knowing your status,” said Samantha Evans, GatorWell sexual health promotion specialist.
GatorWell also offers free HIV testing by 
appointment on Wednesdays from 2 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. and Fridays from 9 a.m. to noon. 
Other campus and community organiza-
tions held events for the international obser -
vance. 
The Queer Straight Alliance at Santa Fe 
College hosted a walk Thursday afternoon to raise money for Positives Empowering Positives, a local organization designed to support people living with HIV and AIDS. 
The alliance also provided information to 
students. “We must have given out hundreds of fli-
ers to people walking by,” said 19-year-old business freshman Jeremy Redford, presi-dent of the Queer Straight Alliance.  
The event ended with Condom Miranda 
presenting a show about sexual education and AIDS and HIV prevention to 79 stu-dents, Redford said. 
Vox: Voices for Planned Parenthood 
raised awareness about safe sex and World AIDS Day by distributing bags with condoms outside of clubs in downtown Gainesville. 
“We wanted to do something people are 
interested in getting,” said 21-year-old psy-chology senior Rosemary Daniels, president of Vox. 
World AIDS Day started Dec. 1, 1988.  
In 2010, there were an estimated 34 million people in the world living with HIV. That number is up 17 percent from 2001, accord-ing to UNAIDS, the United Nations program on HIV/AIDS. 
“Although it’s a fantastic observance 
that really highlights the importance of get-ting tested and the impact of HIV , the other 364 days are good days to think about those things as well,” Evans said. Students observe AIDS Day
AUBREY PRIMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF anthropology graduate stu-
dent teamed up with anthropologists 
from two other U.S. universities to study the characteristics of prehistoric communities in the Caribbean.
The paper, “New records for pre-
historic introduction of Neotropical mammals to the West Indies,” in-
cludes the research of UF graduate student Michelle LeFebvre and grad-uate students from the University of Washington and North Carolina State University.
The team’s studies involved evalu-
ating prehistoric cultures in the Ca-ribbean island Carriacou. Research-ers focused on the influence that five particular animal species had on the island’s natives.
Of the five species, only one can be 
found on Carriacou today.
Through studying these animals, 
researchers analyzed Carriacou’s in-habitants’ rituals, immigration and eating patterns, interaction with other cultures and trade tendencies.
They used chemical analysis and 
other techniques, like carbon dating, to assess their discoveries.
“I hope that [the research] really 
showcases how the archaeological data can be used to address more of the complexities of human culture,” LeFebvre said.
For the team of the three authors 
and about 20 field school students, each day started with field research from 6 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. followed by a three-hour break. 
“We got a very early start in the 
morning because it’s so hot there in the summer,” said Christina Giovas, lead author and University of Wash-ington anthropology graduate stu-dent.
The impact that Carriacou had 
on its surrounding areas, like South America, is highlighted in the re-search.
“People don’t really realize how 
much influence the Caribbean has,” said Susan deFrance, chairwoman of UF’s anthropology department.Grad student studies 
early Caribbean cultures
“It’s a day where we can highlight 
the importance of knowing your 
status.”
Samantha Evans
GatorWell sexual health promotion specialist FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
STATE
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Danielle Kushner likes to tell people she’s 
from the “real South Florida” when they ques-
tion the University of South Florida’s location in Tampa.
Kushner, a 20-year-old public relations 
sophomore at USF and a Coral Springs native, said “it’s not usually a big deal” to people that USF is in Tampa.
“From what I’ve noticed in my friends, stu-
dents here at USF don’t find the term ‘south’ to be a huge deal,” she said. 
However, USF officials are trying to prevent 
any future confusion about the university’s lo-cation.
The university announced Wednesday that 
it is adding the tagline “Tampa Bay” to the end of its official name, which will now be “Univer -
sity of South Florida, Tampa Bay.” 
Officials made the addition to the title to 
brand USF as part of the Tampa Bay area and to stop people from thinking the university is in the Miami area, according to a USF news re-lease.
A task force appointed by Michael Hoad, 
USF’s vice president for communications and marketing, found that people outside of the state often confuse Florida’s universities.
“Adding ‘Tampa Bay’ should help with our 
branding,” Hoad said in the news release. “This is not a push to change the official name of the university or the official logo, but we want to be clear and accurate on where USF is located.” 
USF officials are not sure how the new ta-
gline will be added to the official logo, accord-ing to the release. 
Hallie Kritsas, a 19-year-old UF psychology 
sophomore and Tampa native, said she thinks it will be different to hear USF called anything else.
She doesn’t see the need for the tagline.“I haven’t ever really heard people being 
confused about USF and its location,” she said. “It’s just the way it’s always been.”
Kushner said she thinks the addition of 
“Tampa Bay” to the title could be misleading because the term “Bay” implies the school is on the water. 
“I will still call it USF,” she said.USF adds ‘Tampa Bay’ to name
� IT WILL BE ON THE REITZ 
UNION COLONNADE.
SAPHIRA LAZARRE
Alligator Contributing Writer
With the holiday season well under 
way, thoughts of family, home and gift-
buying fill the heads of many Alachua County residents.
However, for about 18 percent of 
local residents, not much fills their bel-lies.
Today the Center for Leadership 
and Service and a class-organized group called The 15 Percent are hosting a canned food drive from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Reitz Union Colonnade. 
About 18 percent of Alachua County 
residents are food insecure, meaning they don’t know when their next meal will be. The group’s name is inspired by the national statistic: In the U.S., about 15 percent of people are food insecure.Second-year journalism graduate 
student Rachel Sale, 24, is a strategic planner for The 15 Percent. 
She said students often overlook 
poverty and food insecurities, and the event aims to raise awareness about these issues. 
“It’s not just about a one-time dona-
tion, although we appreciate all that we get,” Sale said. “We want to see more students volunteer their time to help this cause.”
Beth Nahlik, assistant director of the 
Center for Leadership and Service, said the food drive will be “mutually benefi-cial” to students who participate. 
“Poverty happens in our own back-
yard,” Nahlik said. “We’re giving these students a chance to take action and be part of a solution.”
All canned food and money do-
nated at the event will be given to the Alachua County Public Schools Winter Break Food Drive. The 15 Percent’s goal is to help at least 50 families. Student group holds food 
drive for ‘food insecure’
“I haven’t ever really heard people 
being confused about USF and its 
location.”
Hallie Kritsas
psychology sophomoreReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialFRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR419 TOTAL VOTES77% YES
23% NOThursday’s question: Do you think the 
Reitz Union needs to be renovated and expanded?Today’s question: WIll you be cramming next week for 
final exams?Only a few more days until the end of the semester. Fi-
nals loom but so does the holiday season. 
But, of course, like every end of the week, we take this 
time to honor and poke fun at those who made an impact 
this week. That brings us to this week’s man-I-really-wish-I-didn’t-wait-till-this-weekend-to-start-giving-a-crap-about-my-classes edition of ...
Darts and Laurels 
To start this week’s fun, we turn our attention to Kansas. 
An 18-year-old high school student was made famous by her “tweet heard ‘round the world” this week when she jokingly tweeted that she told Kansas Gov. Sam Brownback that he sucked. 
We throw a what-about-freedom-of-speech DART to 
Gov. Brownback’s staff and the school’s principal for try-ing to get the girl to apologize to the governor. 
We also give a way-to-stand-up-for-your-rights LAU-
REL to Emma Sullivan, the girl who wrote the tweet. 
Gov. Brownback eventually apologized to the girl, but 
because apparently he sucks, he doesn’t get an award. Try to tell us to apologize. 
Just try. Next, we have to throw a they’ll-let-any-whacko-be-
a-guest-speaker-in-college DART to Gary Yourofsky for 
telling a class at SFC that our treatment of livestock is equivalent to slavery and murder. 
So anytime a wolf kills a sheep for food, we need to ar -
rest that wolf and put it on trial for first-degree murder? 
However, Yourofsky made a good point when he en-
couraged animal rights activists to stop protesting because “demonstrations do nothing. Nothing works but teaching somebody.”
If only the recipients of our when-will-you-guys-learn-
that-you’re-not-really-changing-anything DART would 
listen to him. The newly formed Gator Student Alliance has come together to protest tuition hikes. There are long-term, systematic reasons why tuition keeps increasing and Bright Futures keeps decreasing. Yelling on Turlington Plaza isn’t going to change that. 
And no, we are not “in the pocket” of the administra-
tion. 
Next, we give a one-day-your-luck-will-turn-around 
LAUREL to the Florida cities that Men’s Health named 
some of the least lucky cities in the country: Tampa, St. Petersburg and Miami (numbers nine, four and two respec-tively). 
Just look up more and maybe we can reduce our high 
number of deaths from falling objects. 
Finally, we give an it’s-about-time-it-started-to-feel-
like-fall-around-here LAUREL to the weather. 
Maybe there will be one or two weeks of winter in Feb-
ruary. 
Maybe. Have a fun and safe weekend! US needs to question education philosophy
Finland, one of the world’s most industrialized coun-
tries, has another honor to add to the list: excellent education reform. 
In the United States, there has been an ongoing debate 
about our education system. The problem with the U.S. education sector is two-sided. 
On one hand, education isn’t as accessible as it was in 
the past. Receiving a master’s, a Ph.D., or, in many cases, even an undergraduate degree, comes with loans that may never be paid in a troubled economy.   
On the other hand, perhaps the dilemma with our edu-
cation system transcends financial and governmental is-sues. The downfall of U.S. education may be the result of a flawed philosophy.
Recent publications show that Finland remains on the 
top of each list, boasting an unbelievable record of intelli-gent students. But what is so great about producing smart students? After all, the U.S. is renowned for doing the same.
What is interesting about Finnish students is that their 
intelligence does not stem from standardized test scores or long, nightmarish study hours. Instead, the Finns have implemented a radically different model of educational re-form based on a balanced curriculum. 
In fact, the Finnish education system champions teach-
ers’ rights and requires rigorous standards for teacher cer -
tification, excellent working conditions and respect for the profession similar to the respect given to doctors, lawyers and other highly regarded professionals in the U.S. 
However, obtaining a teaching position in Finland is not 
as easy as it is in the U.S. Becoming a teacher in Finland is highly competitive — only one in 10 applicants are ac-cepted into master’s programs. In the U.S., one can become a teacher without even receiving a master’s degree. 
While becoming a teacher in Finland is a demanding 
process, the benefits provide important values that are not apparent in the U.S. education system. In Finland, teachers aren’t un-
fairly pressured to perform their jobs by unwarranted legislation like they are in the U.S. 
A prime example is the “No 
Child Left Behind Act” of 2002, which forced teachers to com-press their curricula and teach merely to pass their students. While President Barack Obama 
has reformed the law, the fact remains that students and grade school teachers alike are hindered by looming stan-dardized tests, which seem to define success in this country. In fact, there is often a fine line between the wealthy mi-norities who perform excellently on standardized tests and go on to Ivy League schools and the poorest students who perform below average. The lack of proficiency in math and reading due to inadequate teaching conditions or flawed curricula prevents many students from excelling outside of high school. Children are left behind. 
In Finland, wealth is not an issue. There are no stan-
dardized tests. Perhaps the most interesting element of the Finnish education system is the implementation of business strategy, which utilizes talent from within, and only with-in, the organization itself. Finland ensures a prominently qualified education system by employing principals and superintendents from  within the education sector. Even the teachers in Finland come from the Ministry of Education. This doesn’t only happen in select schools. This strategy of cultivating talent from within is pervasive. 
Finns will stay committed to their education philosophy 
and will continue to produce students whose skill sets will surpass those of U.S. students. To be competitive on the in-ternational stage and, more importantly, to save our educa-tion system, it’s time we question our own philosophy. 
Akansha Mishra is a pre-law junior at UF. Her column ap-
pears on Fridays.
Akansha Mishra
letters@alligator.org FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Alligator is a forum for influence 
First, it is hard for me to be upset because 
you have always surprised me and printed 
my opinions — all of which have focused on the misuse of alcohol by college students at UF. You can be the “cool big brother,” and I’ll be the “I’m-telling-on-you-big sis-ter.” I want to emphasize how extremely thankful I am because the Alligator truly is a stage where I could potentially positively influence even just one student who reads my opinion to think twice before drinking irresponsibly. I understand that you were trying to write fairly, but please, please keep in mind that underage drinkers are the only people who can be underage drunk drivers, and they make up a large portion of alcohol-related fatalities in this state every year.
Thank you for acknowledging that my 
accident was horrible; it truly was terrible. On a lighter note, I still have the football Ur -
ban Meyer signed and sent to Shands at UF for me when I was in a coma from my acci-dent back in 2006. Pretty sure I’ll be sending it back to him.
Nicole Martingano
UF Class of 2009Letters to the Editor
President Barack Obama isn’t happy.
The president seems to have lost his spark, as media have 
buzzed with speculation over the root of his gloomy de-
meanor between coverage of those vying for his job.
Even his biggest cheerleader, MSNBC’s Chris Matthews, who 
said he “felt this thrill going up my leg” when Obama delivered a speech during the primaries in 2008 and who compared Obama’s meteoric rise to the New Testament, according to the Huffington Post, has sensed that the Obamas don’t seem settled into the White House.
“Once having won the office, he seemed to think that that was 
the end of it in terms of his connection to the American people,” Matthews said, according to the Washington Times. “I think every-body feels an absence of communication from the time he’s been elected. And it’s not about being left-wing enough or too left. That’s not his problem. It’s connection … I don’t sense the gratitude, the happiness level, the thrill of being president.”
Matthews isn’t the only one to notice the change of heart from 
the man who, in 2010, was named “one of the best presidents ever” by presidential scholars. According to a Gallup poll on Wednes-day, he has now surpassed Lyndon B. Johnson as the president seeking re-election with the lowest approval rating.
Perhaps his poor spirits can be attributed to his looming to-do 
list.
Obama may be hoping to bring troops back from Iraq and Af-
ghanistan in time for Christmas. However, involvement in Libya, which Obama said in March would take “days, not weeks,” ac-cording to ABC News, is still high. A year after his inauguration, the president pledged to his supporters that he would close Guan-tanamo Bay. Yet the infamous pris-on remains open, and Obama con-ceded that he hasn’t “been able to make the case right now,” accord-ing to the Washington Post.
Though war has often been used as a means to boost the econo-
my, the U.S. unemployment rate remains at 9 percent, and accord-ing to The Associated Press, about 46 million Americans now live in poverty , the highest numbers recorded since the Census Bureau began tracking poverty levels in 1959.
Even so, government spending is at historically high levels with 
respect to the nation’s declining GDP . Other nations with such high levels of spending, such as Greece, Ireland, Iceland, Portugal and Spain, are on the verge of collapse, which certainly has done nothing for Obama’s nerves.
America has managed to keep its AAA credit rating with Fitch 
even after losing it with Standard & Poor’s, but according to Fox News, Fitch has downgraded its outlook to negative, a move un-doubtedly associated with the failure of the congressional Super Committee to cut $1.2 trillion in government spending by the end of the year. A drop in the national credit rating will drive up interest rates across the board and make it that much harder for businesses to borrow for capital expenses, which, in turn, affects hiring.
Such news is enough to make anyone, even the president, want 
to live in a tent in Zuccotti Park. And though Obama has pledged to look out for the interests of the omnipresent Occupy Movement’s 99 percent, the polls speak for themselves.
Anastasia Dawson is a columnist for The Oracle at the University of 
South Florida. Obama has lost spark amid nation’s problemsUWire
With finals and papers looming, it seems like the right time to make the decision: Will you or won’t you allow chemicals to alter your brain makeup so 
that you can do better on a paper or final?
Research on Adderall quickly reveals that it is considered 
a highly addictive medication. Typically, Adderall is given for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, ADHD. Howev-er, the same chemicals in Adderall are also in a medication for narcolepsy. These chemicals, dextroamphetamine and amphetamine, work by changing the amounts of certain chemicals in the brain to produce a different result.
For people who do not have ADHD, Adderall acts as a 
stimulant. Although stimulants increase attentiveness, they also increase heart rates, sometimes at a rate too high to be safe. Other side effects of Adderall abuse are: development of sleeping and eating disorders, dry mouth, mood swings and higher blood pressure.
Although there are no real statistics to show how preva-
lent the use of Adderall and similar medications are on col-lege campuses, the National Survey on Drug Use and Health in 2009 revealed full-time college students between the ages of 18 and 22 are twice as likely as their counterparts who are not full-time college students to have used Adderall non-medically during that year.
Any medication, legal or illegal, 
altering the chemicals in your brain should be considered thoroughly be-fore being taken.
This semester, Duke University updated its Duke Com-
munity Standard to include unauthorized use of prescrip-tion medicine in the definition of cheating. Although the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill doesn’t include unauthorized use of prescription medicine, according to an article published in the Daily Tar Heel, the student attorney general for UNC’s honor system said it might be included soon.
With other local universities taking the step toward low-
ering — if not doing away with — the use of Adderall as a study aid, it’s time for North Carolina State University to do the same.
Although our Code of Student Conduct and Procedures 
includes various methods of cheating that are, unfortunate-ly, utilized by students, Adderall should be included.
If a student uses Adderall and receives a 96 on a test, it’s 
very obvious they wouldn’t have gotten the same score had they not used Adderall. The Adderall made it possible to significantly increase the amount of time spent studying as well as the attentiveness to the material.
When said like this, it sounds highly beneficial, but the 
fact still stands — it alters the chemicals in a person’s brain.
I, for one, am not a fan of the fact that a medication can 
change the chemicals in my brain. Even if I don’t gradu-ate from college with a 4.0, the fact that I’ll have made it through college without taking Adderall or a stimulant to make myself study more will mean more than a 4.0 with Adderall would.
I’ve never taken Adderall, but it would seem to me that 
although the material could be retained for the test or final, it wouldn’t be remain after that. What we learn in college is supposed to help us for the rest of our lives. If we learn the material just for the test, it’s not going to help us ever again.
I hope the university will at least consider including Ad-
derall use in the Code of Student Conduct and Procedure. Using mind-altering substances is not something that shows we are an institution of higher learning, as the administra-tors like to remind us that we are.
Chelsey Francis is a columnist for the Technician at North 
Carolina State University.
Using non-prescription Adderall should be considered cheatingUWireAnastasia Dawson
UWire
Chelsey Francis
UWire8, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
Joey Flechas / Alligator Staff
Student Body Treasurer T. J. Villamil, left, and Reitz Union Board of Managers 
Chairman Sean Fahy speak Thursday about the Reitz Union renovation.CAMPUS
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
A car cut off a UF student on a 
scooter Wednesday , propelling her 
onto the car but leaving her without major injuries.
The car drove in front of Alyson 
Burdge, a 21-year-old UF mechani-cal engineering junior, who was driving south on 13th Street, said Cpl. Angelina Valuri, public infor -
mation officer for Gainesville Police Department.
Burdge said she had a minor 
concussion and bruises, including a noticeable one on her forehead. She wasn’t wearing a helmet.
A 2005 Chevy Classic was travel-
ing north on 13th Street at 10:15 a.m. when the driver turned left, intend-ing to turn onto Union Road on UF’s campus. 
The car turned in front of Burdge, 
who had the green light. Burdge said she was driving at about 35 mph. 
Her 2008 Meit scooter hit the 
car, and she was thrown forward. Burdge said she remembers hitting the car’s front tire.
Burdge said about four pedes-
trians rushed to help her. She said one of them called 911 and anoth-er moved her scooter, which was smashed in the front, out of the road.
Burdge’s mother took her to 
Shands at UF. The trip made her miss four classes, including Me-chanics of Materials, where she missed a quiz.
The 38-year-old car driver was 
given a traffic citation, and her in-surance company called Burdge about covering the damages to her scooter.
The plastic on the front of her 
scooter is entirely gone, exposing the wires. The front wheel is also jammed, Burdge said.
Even if her scooter is fixed, she 
said she probably won’t be riding it anytime soon.
“I’m done with scooters, obvi-
ously,” she said. “I’m not going to ride it anymore. I’m just going to take a bus.”
Student OK after being thrown from scooter in accident
� THE EVENT DREW 
ABOUT 70 PEOPLE.
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
The Student Senate’s Ju-
diciary Committee educated 
students about legislation in its Legislative Writing Work-shop on Thursday night.
About 70 students attend-
ed the event, which was held in the Reitz Union and led by Judiciary Committee Chair -
man Aundre Price.
Students joined group 
discussions on legislative committees and drafted a resolution in memory of Jade Guzzo, a UF student who died Sunday. 
Price said the resolution 
will be presented to the Sen-ate on Tuesday.
Students who are not sen-
ators can propose legislation if it is sponsored by a sena-tor.
Economics freshman 
Brandon Pinkston, 18, said he was already interested in Senate, and now he wants to run for a seat. 
He said the group-discus-
sion leaders seemed to know their committees thorough-ly.
“I felt like they cared, al-
most,” he said.
In the Nov. 15 impeach-
ment hearing for Supervisor of Elections Toni Megna, sev-eral senators said the error lay with the Senate because elections legislation was not rewritten for the electronic voting system. Price said that did not affect his decision to hold the workshop.
He said the goal of the 
workshop was to increase transparency between the Student Body and Student Government and encourage nonsenators to propose leg-islation.Student Senate holds 
workshop on lawmakingUF band director hasn’t seen hazing
Loschiavo said hazing can be as simple as asking 
freshmen to carry pebbles in their pockets or as serious 
as physical violence.
The FAMU marching band has a known history 
of hazing. This year alone, 30 students have been sus-pended from the band for hazing, and the university has three open investigations for hazing allegations.
On Nov . 19, Champion, 26, was found unresponsive 
on a bus after performing. He was taken to Dr. P . Phil-lips Hospital in Orlando, where he later died. 
Although the Orange County Sheriff’s Office has 
not determined the cause of death, officials said  hazing likely was involved. 
Former FAMU band director White told The New 
York Times on Thursday that Champion had been re-peatedly punched by band members as part of a hazing ritual. He was one of six drum majors.
David Waybright, director of bands at UF, wrote in 
an email that in his 25 years at the university, he hasn’t seen any instances of hazing within the Fightin’ Gator Marching Band.
The band’s code of conduct strictly forbids any type 
of hazing, and directors work to ensure students are educated about this policy, he wrote.
Eric Ascher, coordinator of competitive sports for UF 
RecSports, said he also has not heard any complaints of hazing in his 10 years as coordinator at the university.
Sports club officers are required to sign a code of con-
duct that includes RecSports’ anti-hazing policy.
Hazing is usually a sort of initiation ritual, he said. On 
sports teams, it might be, “Freshmen, carry the equip-ment.” In Greek organizations, hazing is often directed at pledges.
In 2008, Tau Epsilon Phi was suspended for a year 
after new members were found shirtless and kneeling on the basement floor.
Pledges told police they were told to do pushups and 
wall-sits. Water was poured on them, food was thrown at them, and they were told to wear diapers on their heads, the report said. The report also stated that a bowl of chocolates was passed around to the pledges, who were told it was full of laxatives. 
The pledges all told police that they participated in 
these activities voluntarily, and the criminal hazing charge against the fraternity was dropped.
Also in 2008, Pi Kappa Phi was 
suspended for four years after mem-bers told UF they were forced to do wall-sits and consume large amounts 
of alcohol.
In 2009, UF’s Interfraternity 
Council created an anti-hazing pact 
that all the chapter presidents signed.
Rajiv Asnani, president of IFC, said educating fra-
ternities about hazing is something that continues to be important to the council.
“Hazing may have been a big part of the community 
years ago,” he said, “but we really want to change that, and the key to that is constant education.”
Loschiavo said what saddens him most about the 
FAMU incident is that students knew it was going on, but no one stood up to stop it.
“Students need to realize they have a responsibility to 
their fellow Gators,” he said. “If you see someone who’s struggling, step up, let someone know.”HAZING  from page 1
Reitz Union renovation, expansion 
project estimated to cost $75 million
a reallocation of student fees to finance the 
renovation and expansion of the Reitz Union. The total cost of the project is estimated at $75 mil-lion.
Reynolds emphasized that no new student fee 
will be created. 
A reallocation of 87 cents from each student’s 
Activities and Service Fee, which is covered by Bright Futures, would go toward the project. 
The cost to a student taking 15 credit hours  
would be $13.05. 
Reynolds said he would adamantly oppose any 
new fee for the renovation.
“I really can’t see myself increasing the burden 
on students,” he said. 
About 60 students denouncing tuition and fees 
hikes rallied on Turlington Plaza as the committee meetings began. The Gator Student Alliance orga-nized the event.
The group marched to the meeting at Emerson 
Alumni Hall, blocking traffic on University Av-enue for about 15 minutes as they chanted.
After speaking at the meeting, the protesters 
left the room. Board Chairman Carlos Alfonso met with them downstairs, where the conversation be-came heated. 
Students insisted Alfonso sign a banner that 
listed the group’s demands, which included a moratorium on future tuition hikes.
When students asked him why tuition increases 
happen, Alfonso could get in only one statement before the argument continued:
“It must be done,” he said.After disagreeing over the need for the in-
creases, which are not discussed by the Board of Trustees until the end of the school year, protest-ers abruptly  erupted in chants as Alfonso walked away and returned to the meeting. He later apolo-gized for the tone of the encounter.
“I had a terse conversation with the students 
downstairs,” he said. “For my part in that, I want to apologize because I know how [passionate] they are.”
“I just want to say we want to continue these di-
alogues,” he said. “They are stakeholders for us.”trUSteeS , from page 1
“I’m just going to take a bus.”
Alyson Burdge 
junior
White
 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
� HE MISSED A CURVE.
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
A man was taken to Ala-
chua County Jail early Thurs-
day morning on a charge of driving under the influence after he missed a curve and hit a boulder, knocking it into the road. 
Brandon Kyle Hanson, 
29, of 8413 SW Fourth Place, crashed into the lime rock boulder at about 2 a.m., said Cpl. Angelina Valuri, public information officer for the Gainesville Police Depart-ment. 
Hanson was driving west 
down Northwest Eighth Av-enue and missed the curve near the intersection of West Newberry Road, she said. 
At the scene, it appeared 
that Hanson then drove into the lot of Corda-Roy’s Origi-nals store at 5310 NW Eighth Ave.
A tow truck moved the 
boulder out of the road.
Hanson refused to take a 
breath test, but because he showed signs of alcohol im-pairment, he had to take so-briety tests, Valuri said.
When Hanson failed them, 
GPD officer Steven Carter ar -
rested him.
Judge Thomas Jaworski 
allowed his release from jail between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. Thursday, according to the Alachua County Sherriff’s Office Department of the Jail.Drunk driver plows 
boulder into road MAGEN WETMORE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Chemistry students who are struggling in class  
might now be able to find help on YouTube.
The UF Chemistry Club created a YouTube channel 
that includes videos of members working through and 
explaining problems from the textbook for the General Chemistry 1 class.
Erika Klump, 20, a chemical engineering junior, was 
one of the club members who helped the idea become a reality.
With many students taking General Chemistry 1 
every semester, it became difficult to meet the needs of all the students who sought help from the club’s tutors, she said.
Klump said they needed to find an alternative to 
traditional weekly tutoring and test review sessions in classrooms on campus.The club members who create the videos are all stu-
dents who study science and love chemistry, she said.
“When I was in high school, I had spent over 100 
hours tutoring students for AP Chemistry and occa-sionally CHM2045 when my friends came down for the weekend, so it was just natural for me to keep tu-toring,” said Frances Ooi, 19, a freshman club member and tutor.
Ooi, a materials science and engineering student, is 
one of the tutors who solves problems similar to past exam questions via video.
“I usually get asked by people to help them with 
chemistry, but I think that these videos allow students to feel more comfortable asking chemistry questions,” she said.
Akshay Deshpande, 20, a biochemistry junior and 
club historian, said the videos allow an unlimited num-ber of students to learn and review at their own pace.
The tutors used to use time from the live tutoring ses-
sion answering questions, but now they have time to get into the nitty-gritty details of the chemistry problems.  The tutors quickly answer any questions students may have through the club’s Facebook group, he said.
The YouTube channel can be found at www.you-
tube.com/user/UFChemistryClub. More information about the club can be found on the UF Chemistry Club group on Facebook.UF Chemistry Club puts tutoring 
sessions, questions on YouTube
“I usually get asked by people to help 
them with chemistry, but I think that 
these videos allow students to feel more         
comfortable asking chemistry questions.” 
Frances Ooi
UF chemistry club member and tutor10, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
BA Y CITY , Texas — Laura Gonzalez was 
happy to be back at work after three weeks 
away that included a stay at a battered wom-en’s shelter. She saw it as the beginning of a new life. One without her husband, the father of her four children, she told co-workers. She wasn’t going back to him this time, she said, and left for home.
Less than an hour later, her 24-year-old 
husband, Jose Avila, launched a brutal final as-sault. First he shot his wife three times. Then, he began shooting the children. Avila’s final act was to kill himself.
Two of the children died at a hospital Thurs-
day, a day after their two siblings were killed in the shooting that rattled the small southeast Texas town of Bay City. Their mother is hospi-talized in critical condition.
As details trickled out, a picture emerged 
Thursday of a family long struggling with vio-lence, including an assault reported by Gon-zalez just before Thanksgiving. After that, she went to a battered women’s shelter.
“I asked her how she was doing because I 
knew she was at the crisis center. She said she was trying to make something of her freedom and a better life for herself and her children,” said Alejandro Gonzalez, a fellow waiter at La Casona, the Mexican restaurant where Gonza-lez worked.
“She wanted to make a better life for his 
kids because they see all the violence,” he add-ed, recounting the conversation he had with Gonzalez hours before Avila turned on her.
Although Gonzalez left the trailer home 
she shared with her husband after reporting the assault, Bay City Lt. Andrew Lewis said she refused to press charges. He didn’t know how long she stayed at the shelter.
Wednesday’s violence unfolded on a quiet 
street in Bay City — a town about 65 miles southwest of Houston — just as two nearby schools were letting out. The couple started arguing inside the trailer, and Avila shot his wife twice, Lewis said. She ran out to the front yard, where Avila shot her a third time. Then, he turned on the children.
“We heard ... that he was walking around 
waving a gun,” Lewis said, describing the violent scene that unfolded on a lawn now decorated with a makeshift memorial of teddy bears, candles and prayer books. At least one student witnessed the incident.
Two of the brothers, 3 and 5, died of their 
wounds at a Houston hospital Wednesday. Their 2-year-old sister and 4-year-old brother had been on life support but died Thursday. Gonzalez was in critical condition Thursday night at Memorial Hermann-Texas Medical Center in Houston, a hospital spokeswoman said.
Police have not officially released the names 
of the victims, but co-workers and neighbors identified Avila’s wife as Laura Gonzalez.
The family moved into the trailer home near 
Bay City’s Western-style downtown about a year ago, neighbors said. They appeared to live a quiet life. On occasion, next-door neigh-bor Isuro Perez heard them arguing, but it ap-peared to be nothing out-of-the-ordinary.
“He always plays soccer out here in this 
field out here, plays soccer with his kids,” Per -
ez said, pointing to a grassy area opposite the row of trailer homes. “They were nice people, nothing went wrong really. They were a hap-py family.”
At work, though, Gonzalez portrayed a 
different picture. Alejandro Gonzalez said he once saw her with a black eye. And Ruby Gomez, a waitress at La Casona, said Laura Gonzalez had told her about problems she had with her husband.
“She had to leave to get the kids in the af-
ternoon because he threatened her that if she left him he was going to kill the four kids and her,” Gomez said.
Once, Gomez said, Gonzalez told her Avila 
had locked her in the house and gone to work. She escaped through a window and went to a shelter, Gomez recounted. That was the sec-ond time she left him and vowed not to go back.
The first time, “he convinced her that he 
was going to change and that he really loved his kids and convinced her to return to live with him,” Gomez said.
Still, the tragic outcome of the relationship 
came as a shock to Gonzalez’s co-workers and to other residents of Bay City — a town of just over 17,000 people surrounded by large ranch-es and farmland. 
“It’s going to be sad for the momma when 
she wakes up and finds out she lost her chil-dren,” said Gloria Carranza, a 41-year-old Bay City native.
“Things like this don’t happen in a small 
town like Bay City,” she said.
Texas father fatally shoots four kids, wounds wife, kills self
“She wanted to make a better life 
for his kids because they see all the 
violence.”
Alejandro Gonzalez
waiter at La CasonaJULIA GLUM
Alligator Contributing Writer
Each day when UF sophomore 
Matt Goldsmith gets ready to start 
his Calculus III homework, he closes his laptop and opens his text-book.
Soon he might do the opposite 
–— shutting his book and opening his laptop to complete coursework by playing an online game.
An increasing number of colleg-
es are adding video and computer games to their curricula, according to a recent USA Today article. 
Although the game-based learn-
ing trend has mainly affected el-ementary and high schools, uni-versity professors have begun to  
supplement courses with educa-tional games.
They can be successful tools 
to teach a variety of subjects, said Benjamin Lok, a computer and information science and en-gineering associate professor.  This range of topics includes de-sign, computer graphics, simula-tion, art and music.
Integrating games can improve 
students’ engagement and motiva-tion, he wrote in an email.
A 2003 survey conducted by the 
Pew Research Center reported that 65 percent of 1,162 students at 27 colleges played video and online games regularly.
A team including Marston Sci-
ence Library researchers and digital arts and sciences assistant professor Ben DeVane received a grant from the National Science Foundation to create a Web-based game called Gaming Against Plagiarism.The three-level game will help 
new graduate students in the sci-ence, technology, engineering and math fields learn how to recognize and avoid plagiarism. Starting in May, students will 
play it in workshops and research-focused courses at universities across the nation, DeVane said.
“It’s a gaming approach to a dry topic,” he said. “We designed this game to be not just like a series of quizzes about research misconduct but also an experiential thing.”
In the first level, the player will 
be a student trying to get research funding. By the end, the player will become a research-misconduct investigator trying to uncover the identity of the campus’ serial pla-giarist.
Although many students might 
jump at the chance to play a game for a grade, professors must remember that some are not gamers, Lok said.  
Even so, he thinks more UF profes-sors will embrace gaming as they start to understand its educational value. 
The current generation of stu-
dents consists mostly of digital na-tives, DeVane said. Because they had high-tech childhoods, they of-ten respond best to digital media. 
”If you can get the facts for free 
by learning while playing, then that’s generally something that more people prefer as opposed to doing something that they think is boring,” DeVane said.
Goldsmith, a 19-year-old com-
puter science student, would love to play a video game as part of his coursework.
“I play video games in my spare 
time for fun, so if they can work that into assignments, the fun car -
ries over,” he said. “I’m more likely to play than to read a chapter or write an essay.” FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
An increasing number of colleges are adding video and computer games to their curriculum.
ACADEMICSMore colleges using video games as educational tools12, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Cleaning Up
Gainesville Police officer Jermaine Hutchinson clears debris from under a car following an accident 
on West University Avenue and Northwest 11th Street on Thursday evening.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
As several Occupy move-
ments have been swept from 
the streets of cities around the nation, Occupy Gainesville still stands.
After police raided the Oc-
cupy L.A. camp at City Hall, they arrested about 300 people and collected 25 tons of debris, according to The Associated Press. 
The large amount of garbage 
was making the area unsani-tary, causing the government to remove the protesters, among other reasons.
This is the problem with the 
large Occupy movements, said 19-year-old Occupy protester Johnny Morrow, a student at Santa Fe College. 
“The Occupy protesters in 
the big cities are less of a com-munity than we are,” he said. “We are peaceful.” 
Occupy Gainesville is small-
er. About 25 protesters have been arrested since the protest-ers set up downtown on Bo Diddley Community Plaza in October.  
The local movement has not 
been removed from downtown because protesters are not vio-lating the law, said Gainesville City Commissioner Jeanna Mas-trodicasa in an email.
New York Mayor Michael 
Bloomberg ordered the tempo-rary eviction of the Occupy en-campment of Zuccotti Park be-cause the protesters had become a health and fire hazard, accord-ing to Reuters. 
Occupy Gainesville is not a 
camp, said Cpl. Angelina Valuri, public information officer for the Gainesville Police Depart-ment. The protesters set up dur -
ing the day and leave when the park closes. 
“The situation in other cit-
ies is not what is going on in Gainesville,” Valuri said.
About 15 protesters stay 
through the night on the side-walks bordering the park.Occupy Gainesville 
not facing eviction FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
$795-2/2 Furnished Apt. On bus route, 1.5 
miles to UF campus. W/D, AC, Cable and in-ternet included. Pool, Fitness ctr., computer lab. No application fee. Yearly and monthly lease. 305-793-4290.   1-25-11-22-1
1Bed/1Bath available in 4/4 in beautiful gated 
Countryside complex. $385/mo incl all utils, ca-ble, internet, etc. Big Screen tv in living room! Available for spring sublease. Shahrouz.ebadi-an@gmail.com or 754-281-5023   1-9-11-6-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600$99 Move In Special!352-372-7555FrederickGardens.com12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
MOVE IN BY JANUARY 5th
2/2: $300 Cash Back
3/3: $500 Cash Back
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 4352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1480/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    12-7-11-34-2
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
12-7-11-33-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2Close to UF, $555/month plus $300 sec dep. 
2BR with 2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098    12-7-11-26-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155012-7-11-19-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    12-7-11-18-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381    12-7-11-15-2
Newly renovated very clean, spacious prop-
erty near everything in NW area available for lease. Laundry room, lots of storage space, central H/Ac, fireplace, much more. $890/mo. Call 352-375-6754 or 352-495-6250   1-9-11-15-2
Get an entire 2/2 apt for only $820/mo avail-
able NOW! Clean, spacious, comfortable inside. Gated community. Access to tanning beds, 24 hr gym, basketball & tennis courts & more. Furnishing available 954-625-5043   12-7-13-2QUIET ngbd close to campus: 2br/2b,
w/d, tile floors, built in storage,
bookcases & desk, lge yard. $800/m.
Call 352-335-7139 for more details.
1-9-11-13-2
A charming, 3 BR/1.5 BA house. Great 
Neighborhood. Close to UF. W/D. Available January 1 (flexible). 2 people - $800/mo. 3 people - $900/mo. Call Meryl: 352-373-5933   12-2-11-5-2
Room available for $540/month. Walking 
distance from CAMPUS and MIDTOWN. Separate bathroom, walk-in closet, washer/dryer, wifi. Available for Spring and Summer. Contact 954-562-3578 for questions.   1-9-11-7-2
SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
2BR/1.5BA close to UF, Shands,Vet School
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Contact our office to
inquire about student specials!!!!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $650/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    1-9-11-7-2
OVERPAYING TO LIVE NEAR CAMPUS?
1,2&3 BR's in quiet nbhd ONE mile to Reitz. Washer/dryer, H2O, gas incld. NO CAPS! Tons of parking. On buses 1, 12 & Later Gator. Check us out Country Village 373.270012-7-11-6-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting from $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
●1 & 2 bedroom apartments 
●2 - 4 bedroom houses●3BD/2.5BA condoGreat location, fenced yard, all tile.$550-1000/mo - Call (352) 494-89591-9-11-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Contact 305-502-6261
2 bedrooms, 2 baths. $515/mo all inclusive and fully furnished. Pet friendly. Available from spring to summer. Apt in Windsor Park.   12-2-10-3
Bedroom w/ own bathroom avail $365 (unfurn) 
or $385 (furn) for 9 mo lease. Price all-inclu-sive (rent/util/cable/internet). Washer/dryer/dishwasher. Pets ok. On 9/35 bus routes. ~1.5 miles from UF. Student/young profes-sional pref. Avail ASAP. 850-585-4405.1-9-11-9-3
Beautiful 2bdrm/2 bath with loft town home 
apartment for sublease at Cobblestone. Each apartment has washer and dryer in unit and built in microwave. Free extended cable with HBO included. $999/mo. 386-972-2425   12-5-4-3
December FREE! Move in NOW for Spring 
Semester. Cabana Beach--2 bdrm/2 bath, furnished plus W/D. $509/per person. (352) 552 1757.    1-13-11-10-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
16, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-9-11-14-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 Countryside condo, near poolside. Easy commute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. Text 386-233-0011, ph 386-676-9703, nukken1@aol.com1-9-11-11-4
Bedroom w/ own bathroom avail $365 (unfurn) 
or $385 (furn) for 9 mo lease. Price all-inclu-sive (rent/util/cable/internet). Washer/dryer/dishwasher. Pets ok. On 9/35 bus routes. ~1.5 miles from UF. Student/young profes-sional pref. Avail ASAP. 850-585-4405.1-9-11-9-4
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
Male roommate needed - 4 BR house, 14 
blks from campus. Safe & secure NW neigh-borhood. Great deck & yard. Clean, nicely furn, new appl, $575/mo incl util, w/d. AJ 561.718.5567     1-9-11-6-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 1-9-11-6-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   1-9-11-5-4
Female roommate wanted in furnished con-
do. $325/month all inclusive. Within walking distance of Southwest Rec Center, conve-nient bus stops, pool. Available 1/1/12 Call or text 321-432-5565                12-7-4-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Lakefront Sale! Sat Dec 3rd only! 2+ acres, 
227ft direct lake frontage only $34,900! Gorgeous wooded setting with deep dock-able water frontage out your back door! Paved roads, power, phone, more. Excellent financing. Call now (866)952-5302, x 108.   12-2-1-5
BANK ORDERED AUCTION - 174± Bank 
Owned Assets - AL, GA, NC & TN. December 6th, 7th & 8th - Homes, Acreage, Residential Lots & Commercial Properties - (800)323-8388 or RowellAuctions.com   12-2-1-5
Bankruptcy Auction, Dec. 8: Residential & 
Commercial Properties in Osceola, Polk, Orange, Seminole, & Citrus Counties. Ewald Auction & Realty, Lic. RE Broker AB2473/AU1340, 10% BP. (407)275-6853, www.EwaldAuctions.com    12-2-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10●●● BK CHRISTMAS TREES ●●●
Potted Red Cedar & Arizona Cypress; 3 ft to 13 ft; $5 to $65. Free pecans & sugar cane. 20926 NW 75th St., Alachua, 10am-6pm, 7 days. 386-462-2060    1-9-11-10-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
KAYAK HOBIE MIRAGE
Fishing Pedal Kayak.
Excellent condition $900."Cadillac of Kayaks" 386-438-8737    12-5-3-10
MICROSCOPE - BAUSCH & LOMB
Balplan Model, 5 head. Was $2500. In very 
good condition. Asking $1900. 386-438-8737     12-5-3-10
GRAVITY INVERSION THERAPY TABLE
Like New. Good for physical conditioning. $100. Call 352-495-9206   12-6-11-3-10
SAWMILLS from only $3997- MAKE MONEY 
& SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship. FREE Info & DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com (800)578-1363 Ext.300N    12-2-1-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 17
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I Buy Junk Cars & Scrap
Call Anytime 352-443-1100 Titles only
1-9-11-50-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
CASH FOR CARS! Any Make, Model, or 
Year. We Pay MORE! Running or Not. Sell Your Car or Truck TODAY. Free Towing! Instant Offer: (888)420-3807    12-2-1-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
VIDEO TECH
ACCOUNTING EDITORAVIATION EDITORPROOFREADERLINUX ADMINACT COORDINATORGRAPHICS DESIGNERX-PLANE  DEVELOPERSOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Career and non-career positions available.
Please apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment             1-9-11-17-14
 
Sanford Office looking for General Dentist 
to work with a great team. Part-Time(one-two days a week)Position available as soon as possible. fax Resume to (407) 324-9229    1-10-11-17-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7064    1-9-11-16-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   1-9-11-12-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com    1-9-11-11-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly workFlexible schedules$8 an hour to startApply online at RGIS.COM     1-9-11-10-14UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      12-5-11-77-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
VOLUNTEERING IN MEXICO
Wanted English Instructor. ($300 Fee - cov-
ers transportation, room, board for 10 days) www.goodnewscorps.org 904-402-2377    1-9-11-6-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by The Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
18, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
Opus Coffee Bar
We are searching for fun and active students
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast-paced coffee bar near campus.
Starting pay is $7.75/hour + tips.To apply, go to our website,
www.opus-cafe.com, click on theemployment tab, and follow the directions.     12-5-11-7-14
P/T Tutoring Spring Semester 2012: college 
courses: algebra, poli sci, & history for local non-profit serving learning disabled college students. Please call 352-335-8966 or email resume to reports@academic-success.net.   12-7-8-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring now for 
Front Desk/Customer Service, Boys & 
Girls Gymnastics & Tumbling Coaches! 
Applications (required for consideration) at 
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html. Email 
HR@suncountrysports.com for more info.
12-5-11-5-14
Retired Professor seeks assistane from 
mathematics graduate student with calcula-tions. For further details please call 352-335-3843    12-2-11-3-14
NOW HIRING
Outstanding Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2012
ADV3008         ENT3003               MAR3023
BSC2010         ENY1001               MUH4016BSC2011         FOS2001               PSY2012BUL4310         GEB3373               RTV3405ECO2013        MAN3025               STA2023ECO2023        MAN4504          … and more!
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-23-11-15-14
WEB DEVELOPERS - Multiple Openings
Internet company in downtown Gainesville seeks talented full-time site builders. Front end and/or back end. HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL. High pay, fun environment! Send resume to hr@digitalbrands.com.   1-12-11-10-14
TUTORS FOR SPRING 1-on-1 tutoring at-
risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net1-9-11-5-14
Freight Up = More $ 2 Mos. CDL Class A 
Driving Exp (877)258-8782 www.melt-ontruck.com    12-2-1-14
Drivers: Run GA, AL, MS, TN & FL HOME 
WEEKENDS, Earn Up to 39¢/mi, 1 yr OTR Flatbed exp. Call: SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC (800)572-5489 ext. 227    12-2-1-14
Driver - Dry & Refrigerated. Single source 
dispatch. No tractor older than 3 years. Daily Pay! Various hometime options! CDL-A, 3 months current OTR experience. (800)414-9569. www.driveknight.com   12-2-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
12-7-78-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
ALLIED HEALTH career training-Attend col-
lege 100% online. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.com    12-2-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com   12-2-1-15
EARN COLLEGE DEGREE ONLINE. 
*Medical, *Business, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (877)206-5165 www.CenturaOnline.com   12-2-1-15AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for hands 
on Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA ap-proved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769   12-2-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ-ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)359-1690   12-2-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   1-9-11-11-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Best religion? NO religion! Get to know your 
Creator. See why the Bible is unique. Try "www.godonthe.net/evidence/codes.htm" (entire page). You Tube. "Chuck Missler Isaiah 53 Bible Code" and "Chuck Missler Hidden Torah Message Bible Code".   1-9-11-9-18Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Advertising that Works. Put your ad in Over 
100 Papers throughout Florida for one LOW RATE! Call (866)742-1373 or visit:www.florida-classifieds.com    12-2-1-20
HAPPY'S KIDS CHRISTMAS COLORING 
CONTEST - "Navidad Colorear Concurso." Go to www.HappyTalesPublishing.com, download pictures, color, mail by December 10th. Three Prizes per age group. Enter to-day!    12-2-1-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
of trouble and a defense that can terrorize an offense — ask 
Xavier Nixon.
Plus, Georgia is playing for a BCS Bowl bid. LSU is pretty 
much locked in for a rematch with ’Bama. The last time experts said a team could play for the national title without winning its conference championship game, No. 1 Oklahoma got run over by Kansas State, 35-7 in 2003.
— TYLER JETT
The Tigers (-14) won’t pull an Oklahoma circa 2003 be-
cause…
LSU is that much better than every other team; it’s that 
simple. 
The Tigers have played seven ranked teams this season and 
have come out on top in each game. Save for the three-point win against Alabama, which is apparently the second-best team in the nation, the Bayou Bengals have absolutely mauled their ranked opponents, winning by an average of 23.5 points.
LSU is bigger, faster and better than Georgia. If Florida’s 
defense held Aaron Murray to arguably his worst game of the season, imagine what LSU will do.
Besides, the Honey Badger takes what it wants — and it 
wants that SEC championship, man.
— TOM GREEN
Now, on to the picks!
Entering the final week in first with a 63-39 record is The 
Associated Press’ Mark “Age is a two-digit number; I’m more 
concerned with the seven-digit ones” Long, who is now ask-ing college-aged reporters to hook him up with their female friends. But don’t worry, ladies: Mark will never see you na-ked. His middle-aged eyes can’t make out anything through that peephole.
Trying to make a final push to catch Mark and in second 
with a 59-43 record is alligatorSports writer Greg “Marvin Gaye and Chardonnay” Luca, who will be spending his Friday night enjoying a nice (free) bottle of white wine with his roommates and sharing some fine foreign cheeses. To set the mood, Greg plans to light a few scented candles and play some R&B.
In third with a 53-49 record is ESPN’s Mike “Where were 
you when I was 16?” DiRocco, who for the first time in his life was picked for a team when Will Muschamp asked him to play guard last Saturday . An actor playing Mike in a future film will need to study Dennis Quaid in “The Rookie,” Rodney Danger -
field in “Back to School” and that truffle shuffle kid from “The Goonies.”
Tied with Mike at 53-49 is alligatorSports writer Tyler “Par -
allel parking is for suckers” Jett, who tried (and failed) to paral-lel park on the office’s weekly outing to Tijuana Flats for Taco Tuesdaze. But hey, if you’ve been reading this column all sea-son, you already know Tyler has troubles “getting it in.”
Falling to fifth at 51-51 is alligatorSports assistant editor 
Matt “KHAAAAAAAN!!” Watts, who was so overwhelmed by Tuesday’s news that the Jaguars not only fired Jack Del Rio but got a new owner that he donned his bootleg Blaine Gabbert jersey to work. It was weird, not just because Gabbert is awful, but because that’s ALL he wore to work. Talk about awkward.
In sixth at 50-52 is FightinGators.com’s Cody “Too easy” 
Jones, who laughed off a chance to mock the Miami Marlins’ mascot’s new fashion makeover. Cody isn’t a fan of the Miami Vice style; he prefers his “Atlanta chic” look, which includes a patterned shirt, a half-grown beard and one of many Braves hats.
Maintaining his position in seventh with a 49-53 record is 
InsideTheGators.com’s Kyle “Don’t talk about Timmy like that” Maistri, whose fervent man-love for the Chosen One shone through like a light from above on a recent episode of the podcast. Merril Hoge better look out, because Kyle is on a crusade to end the hate on Tim Tebow. What a homer.
And rounding out the pack in dead-ass last with a piss-poor 
46-56 record is alligatorSports editor Tom “Turkey Legs But No Teacups” Green, who again spent a holiday weekend away from Gainesville with his family in Orlando. Sadly, Tom didn’t get to take a trip to the Magic Kingdom for some smoked bird and had to force his mom’s dry , unpalatable turkey down his gullet. Sorry , Barbara, but Tom sold you out. Hey , at least there 
was cranberry sauce.
PICKS , from page 20three-point shots, which brings us back to 
the same problem that hindered UF early last year and doomed them this season against Ohio State. 
Florida is at its best when defenses have to 
worry about the Gators moving the ball and scoring on the interior. Whether that means getting Patric Young involved or perimeter players driving to the basket, the Gators need to establish a scoring presence — or any type of presence at all, really — inside the arc. 
When Syracuse gives teams fits defen-
sively, it’s because it forces them into the same vice that limited Florida’s potential last season. Teams see five big, orange jerseys roaming the interior, pass it around the pe-rimeter for 30 seconds and then settle for a contested 23-footer. 
Since the Gators were prone to one-man 
possessions and lackadaisical ball move-ment last year — and have shown spells of the same early this season — this type of de-fense is designed to induce their most com-mon faults. 
Taking threes is fine, but the shots need to 
be generated, not forced. 
“I’m not opposed at all to taking threes, 
but you really, from possession by posses-sion, have got to take not necessarily what’s given to you, but what you create,” Donovan said. “A lot of it is making good decisions, and this will be a great test for us.” 
If Florida can avoid offensive funks and 
display crisp ball movement and an ability to penetrate the lane consistently, the Gators will beat the Orange and prove they have the type of offense they need to make a deep run in the Tournament. 
If not, the season is by no means in trouble, 
but Florida will learn that it still has plenty of work left to do.  
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.
GREG , from page 20
  ML  GL   MD  TJ
Georgia (+14) at LSU  LSU  LSU    LSU     UGA
UCLA (+32.5) at Oregon  ORE  UCLA     UCLA    UCLA
Southern Miss (+14) at Houston HOU  HOU     HOU     HOU
Oklahoma (+3.5) at Oklahoma State   OKST  OKST    OKST    OU
Virginia Tech at Clemson (+7.5) VT  VT  VT  VT
Michigan State (+10) at Wisconsin WISC  WISC     MSU     MSU
Texas (+3) at Baylor  BAY  TEX  BAY     BAY
Northern Illinois at Ohio (+4) NIU  OHIO  OHIO   OHIO  
 
   
  MW   CJ   KM   TG
Georgia (+14) at LSU  LSU  LSU  LSU  LSU
UCLA (+32.5) at Oregon  ORE  UCLA  ORE  ORE
Southern Miss (+14) at Houston HOU  HOU  USM  HOU
Oklahoma (+3.5) at Oklahoma State   OKST  OU  OU  OKST
Virginia Tech at Clemson (+7.5) CLEM  CLEM  VT  CLEM
Michigan State (+10) at Wisconsin MSU  WISC  WISC  WISC
Texas (+3) at Baylor  BAY  BAY  BAY  BAY
Northern Illinois at Ohio (+4) NIU  OHIO  NIU     NIUFRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Shameless Twitter Plug
For live updates and analysis from tonight’s top-
10 matchup between Florida and Syracuse, follow           @JJBoothe and @GregLuca on Twitter. Finley Finds a Home
Former UF linebacker Dee Finley, who decided to transfer earlier in the season, announced on his Twitter account that he intends to enroll at North Alabama, a Division-II school. Finley is from Auburn, Ala. Tangerine Wiggs (left) and Florida’s volleyball team travel to Cedar Falls, Iowa, today for the first round of the NCAA tourney.See story, page 24.   
Earlier this week, one of our partic-
ipants asked what he would win if he finished first in the alligator -
Sports Brand Picks Column.
Seeing how this is the last Friday of 
the semester, we thought it was an ap-propriate time to come up with actual prizes for this thing. At first, we offered space in next Monday’s paper to write a column. This idea was rejected because, apparently , writers really don’t like to write — odd, we know.
Our second offer was a little more 
substantial, and this is what we have settled on: We are willing to part with a 10-foot tall painting we “borrowed” from a South Carolina sorority house. The artwork, which is displayed on a white-sheet canvas and draws inspira-tion from the work of Mexican finger painter Lupe Rodriguez, is pretty awe-some.
It shows a Gamecock wearing sun-
glasses and holding a Gator in his arms like a guitar. Above the painting, the artist wrote “Rockin’ Out.” It has been a rough season, but at least the stakes of the alligatorSports Brand Picks Column have been raised substantially . 
We can’t say the same thing about 
this weekend’s slate of college football. Everyone in the biz is saying LSU will go to the national championship even if it loses to Georgia this week. And regardless of how everyone else plays, the Crimson Tide will be waiting for the Tigers because — apparently — Ala-bama is really, really good.
But this week still matters to us, so 
we let a couple of our writers debate the Southeastern Conference Champi-onship.
The Dawgs (+14) will score the up-
set because …
This week’s game is college foot-
ball’s equivalent of the Puppy Bowl on the Animal Planet every January. It’s a matchup that no one really cares about, but it serves as a nice appetizer for the championship. Also, the scrappier team always wins.
And trust us, Georgia is scrappy . 
The Bulldogs have a couple of run-ning backs who can’t seem to stay out Picks
Column
SITE: Your Couch (cap. ~4)
KICKOFF:  All Day., Saturday 
TV/RADIO:  All Channels
see PICKs, P age 19eND OF gRegULa TION
Almost exactly a year ago today, the 
Gators were a team in turmoil. 
On Dec. 1, 2010, Florida lost to 
UCF, 57-54. After the game, coach Billy Dono-van was upset with UF’s 14 turnovers, com-pared to just 12 assists. 
“We have a bunch of guys on the floor that 
make nobody better,” he said.  
Once the 2010-11 team got chemistry and 
ball movement straightened out, Florida’s run to the Elite Eight became possible. 
The 2011-12 version of the Gators face a 
similar challenge. Although a soft schedule has masked some of the concern, Florida had 11 assists and 16 turnovers in a loss to Ohio State earlier this season. 
Donovan said his team has gotten better at moving the ball and making decisions since then, but to-night’s game against Syracuse will be the toughest test to date. 
The Orange has 
forced turnovers on 30.5 percent of its op-
ponents’ possessions, the second-best mark in the nation. While limiting turnovers will be key, the biggest indicator of where Florida is offensively will be shot selection. 
Syracuse is known for its signature 2-3 
zone, where its five lanky athletes pack into the middle of the floor, taking away inside scoring but leaving holes on the perimeter for 3-point shooters. 
On paper this is a perfect matchup for 
a Florida team that takes 43.2 percent of its field-goal attempts from beyond the arc and hits 42.9 percent of those tries. 
“I wish every team would play 2-3 zone,” 
said junior guard Mike Rosario, who has taken 35 of his 51 shots from 3-point range. “I love to play against 2-3 zone so you can shoot threes.”
It’s obvious that the three-ball is a big part 
of the Gators’ offense, and Donovan himself said he’s fine with the team shooting from dis-tance. 
The issue is how Florida gets those         
Florida needs to create shots, not take them vs. ‘Cuse
greg Luca
twitter: @gregluca
see gReg, P age 19� NO. 10 FLORIDA PLAYS 
NO. 4 SYRACUSE TONIGHT AT 7 IN CARRIER DOME.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
In Florida’s second game 
against a top-10 team in three 
weeks, coach Billy Donovan can only hope the Gators aren’t haunted by the same mistakes.
Since giving up 16 turnovers 
in a Nov. 15 loss at second-ranked Ohio State, UF has cut down on its giveaways and upped its assists while playing against four teams at or below .500.
As No. 10 Florida (5-1) trav-
els to the Carrier Dome to take on fourth-ranked Syracuse (7-0) tonight at 7, Donovan predicts that trend will be much tougher to continue in just his squad’s second true road game.
“I thought we forced some 
things (against OSU),” Dono-van said. “I thought we tried to create something that wasn’t there that led to a tough shot or a turnover. We’re going to be put into probably twice as many situations like that Fri-day against their zone than we would’ve against Ohio State’s man-to-man.”
The Gators’ decision-making 
will be put to the test early on against the Orange’s vaunted 2-3 zone defense, which makes Syracuse’s zone D presents new test for Florida
see HOOPs, P age 23David Carr / alligator
Coach Billy Donovan said UF was forced into tough situations on offense during its last top-10 matchup, 
a loss to Ohio State on Nov. 15, and that his team will face a similar challenge against No. 4 Syracuse.
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
Florida coach Amanda Butler 
scoffs at the notion of having a go-to 
scorer.
Instead, she champions a bal-
anced attack on offense featuring multiple players that can put the ball in the hoop.
“If you have one person as your 
‘go-to girl,’ then your opponents have one person to really focus on shutting down,” Butler said. “Then, you don’t have a ‘go-to girl’ any-more.”
While Butler’s philosophy may 
just be coach speak, it has proven vi-able for the Gators so far this season. 
Florida is 6-1 t h a n k s l a rg e l y 
to an abundance of reliable scoring options.
Four Gators average double-dig-
it points, a stark improvement com-pared to last season when guard Jor -
dan Jones’ 10.2 mark led the team.
Jones ranks second on the squad 
through seven games with 12.6 points per contest, but her best per -
formance was a UF career-high 28 points in an 85-74 win against La Salle last Friday.
“Everybody on the team — every 
time Jordan catches it — screams, ‘Shoot!’ And that’s a great confi-dence builder for her,” Butler said. “Jordan is one of the best shooters in the country.”One breakout threat this season 
has been junior forward Jennifer George, whose 13.4 points per game leads the Gators.
“She has no idea what a differ -
ence she makes,” Jones said. “(She’s) really making other teams respect her.”
Guard Lanita Bartley singled 
out George’s 18-point, 15-rebound performance against La Salle as a “beast” performance.
While Jones and George lead the 
team, the point guards have provid-ed help for the Gators this season.
Bartley ranks third on the squad 
with 12.1 points per game after hav-ing a career-best 28 points in last Sat-urday’s 82-73 win against Charlotte.
Meanwhile, Jaterra Bonds is scor -
ing 10.3 points per contest despite a slow start to the season.
“So much of this guard scoring 
came as a result of the defense,” But-ler said. “The points off turnovers, generating defensive momentum and energy that led to easy baskets. That’s our favorite kind of offense.”
In the season opener against 
Michigan, it seemed like Florida had designated Jones as its “go-to girl.”
She led the Gators with 21 points 
in a 69-66 loss to the Wolverines, tak-ing 13 of the team’s 27 3-point shots. During that game, George only at-tempted one shot.
However, during its six-game 
winning streak, UF has spread the ball around.
The Gators have had four differ -
ent leading scorers and seven play-ers reach double-digit points during the run.
Five of the seven players to score 
in double figures did so multiple times. 
In tonight’s matchup with No. 11 
Rutgers (6-0) at 8 in Daytona Beach, Florida will have multiple strategies to get the ball in the basket.
Scoring options include feeding 
the ball to George in the paint, let-ting Jones set up from beyond the arc, or having Bartley drive the lane for potential three-point plays.But offense will take a backseat to 
the Gators’ defensive mentality.
“We spend most of our time in 
preparing for teams by how we’re going to defend them,” Butler said. “If we can defend them, then we’re going to score.” FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 21
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Guard Jordan Jones (33) averages 12.6 points per game to help lead a balanced Gators attack this year.
Florida hopes balanced 
offense leads to upset
UF Bask etball22, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
scoring inside difficult and entices teams to settle 
for long threes.
Through seven games, Syracuse has forced an 
average of 20.1 turnovers per game — the fourth highest in the nation. 
Donovan stressed that patience by his guards 
would be the key to creating good looks. The Gators have lost to the Orange in their last two meetings in 2008 and 2009, with senior guard Erv-ing Walker shooting a combined 10 for 26 in two games and a then-freshman Kenny Boynton hit-ting 7 of 17 shots in 2009.
“Not to say that we want to milk the clock all 
the way down, but if you don’t have what we want within the first 30 seconds, we have to do a better job of taking care of the ball and making decisions, unlike what we did in Columbus (against Ohio State) there in the second game,” Donovan said.
In the 33,000-seat Carrier Dome, which holds 
nearly 50,000 for football games, Syracuse has al-lowed opponents to make just 50 of 156 shots from three. The Gators have never played at the Orange’s 
home arena and will be faced with shooting in a much more open environment than the O’Connell Center.
“I think overall as a team we had success in the 
SEC Tournament shooting in a place like that,” Boynton said. “A gym is a gym, we’ve just got to go in there and try to get the win.”
The one Gators guard who has played in the 
Carrier Dome is redshirt junior Mike Rosario, 
who spent two seasons at Big East rival Rutgers. In his last trip to Syra-cuse, N.Y., in 2009, Rosa-
rio went 6 of 21 from the field, including 2-for-9 shooting from three.
“This will be a great challenge for us again,” 
Rosario said. 
“Another step forward. I feel like we built from 
our game that we played against Ohio State and we got better in the things that we needed to get better in. So I feel like we prepared to go out there and play to win the game Friday.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 23
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator StaffDavid Carr / Alligator
Guard Mike Rosario, a Rutgers transfer, is the only player on UF’s roster 
with experience in the Carrier Dome. He shot 6 for 21 there in 2009.
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator StaffDonovan preaching patience on offense for Gators tonight  
HOOPS , from page 20
UF Bask etball24, ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2011
UF VOLLEYBALL
  BRYAN HOLT
 Alligator Writer
   
 When Florida takes the court in 
Cedar Falls, Iowa, tonight at 6, it 
will be staring across the net at a team that embodies nearly every-thing it is not. 
  Missouri is an unfamiliar op-
ponent in both history and stature. Florida has never in its 27-year history played the school it will call a Southeastern Conference foe next season. 
  “We haven’t played Missouri 
since we’ve been here, so I couldn’t even tell you what happened 20 years ago,” UF coach Mary Wise said after seeing her team’s ﬁ  rst-round draw on Sunday night. 
  Florida’s postseason attack is 
one based almost entirely on expe-rience and desperation. 
  The Gators (24-5, 17-3 SEC) 
have ﬁ  ve seniors who have ended every year of their collegiate ca-reers in the NCAA Regional Semi-ﬁ  nals. 
In the Tigers, they will ﬁ  nd 
one of the tournament’s young-est teams, a squad that regularly starts three freshmen and two sophomores in addition to just one senior. 
  “Those girls are playing for 
each other,” junior right-side hit-ter Tangerine Wiggs said. “There’s not really that pressure and there’s not really that weight of thinking this could be our last game. That’s scary.”
  Expecting the Tigers (21-12, 7-9 
Big 12 Conference) to play with nothing to lose, the Gators have put extra emphasis on defense and controlling runs off the serve. Both are areas that have been ma-jor focuses all year for Florida, and both are areas where it feels it has peaked. 
  “We’ve really been working on 
things throughout the year that aren’t necessarily our strengths that they might expose,” Wiggs said. 
  Missouri’s lone starting senior,  
Brittney Brimmage, is a 6-foot-3 middle blocker and outside hit-ter who has been a rock both of-fensively and defensively for the Tigers all season. Without missing a single set and having her rota-tions split up by playing two dif-ferent positions, Brimmage leads the team in hitting efﬁ  ciency (.358) and is second in blocks.
  But her success in her ﬁ  nal 
game will rely primarily on un-derclassmen. 
Missouri’s offense has been plagued by unforced errors throughout the season. Brimmage is the only regular contributor hit-ting above .279. 
The Tigers’ defense is some-
what similar to that of the Gators’ in that it relies heavily on block-ing in lieu of libero play. Missouri averages 2.3 blocks per set, a total comparable to Florida’s 2.4 mark  — a stat the Gators are not often matched in. 
  In the backcourt, the Tigers are 
a mixed batch that has seen six players record at least 136 digs on the season.
  “We’re really focusing on Miz-
zou right now and just really put-ting our heart and our minds into that and hoping for the best,” UF sophomore setter Chanel Brown said.
  While the Tigers appear to have 
little pressure on them, the Gators will be trying to feed off the must-win scenario. 
During the practices leading up 
to tonight’s game, Wiggs has seen a renewed intensity in her seniors.
  “They’ve been working really 
hard in practice this week,” she said. “You can see that type of grit that they have and that ﬁ  ght that they have. It’s going to be exciting to see them play.” 
Gators open NCAA Championship against future SEC foe 
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  Florida junior right-side hitter Tangerine Wiggs (left) and the Gators travel to Cedar Falls, Iowa, tonight to 
take on a youthful Missouri team in the opening round of the NCAA Championship. 
“Those girls are play-
ing for each other. There’s 
not really that pressure 
and there’s not really that 
weight of thinking this could 
be our last game. That’s 
scary.”
Tangerine Wiggs
UF junior right-side hitter