JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Before his interest in baseball 
fizzled and a future in basket-ball became a reality, Patric 
Young would start the occasional wrestling match with his dad.
At a time when Young — a cur -
rent colossus at center for the Gators — was still considered “little” in his father’s eyes, the impromptu bouts were anything but a fair pairing. 
As a 6-foot-4 former professional 
tight end, Robert Young, now 53, could easily handle his son while horsing around. 
But there was just one problem: It 
was more than a playful game to the elementary-school aged, yet ultra-competitive Patric. 
“I would have to lay on him to 
make him stop,” Robert said. “I would tell him, ‘Say uncle! Uncle!’ He would never say uncle, he would never say it.”
Instead, he kept lunging at his 
dad, year after year, until he entered high school.
By then, Patric was on the fast 
track to his current 6-foot-9, 247- pound build and becoming every bit the man his father is physically.
Robert soon had enough.“No, no, I’m not going to even 
touch him,” Robert said of the pros-pect of wrestling 19-year-old Pat-ric. “Yes sir, no sir, boy. He would never quit, so we had to quit wres-tling around his 10th grade of high school.” 
Though Young moved on to the 
bigger challenge of playing college basketball at Florida, he maintained the same headstrong attitude, almost to a fault, heading into his second year in Gainesville.
While his body is as NBA-ready 
as perhaps anyone in the country, it’s Young’s mental approach to in-game situations that gets him into trouble at times.
As a much-hyped, five-star recruit 
out of Jacksonville Providence High last season, Young would get visibly frustrated when things didn’t go right for him on the court. His fouls began increasing as games wore on, as did his responses to taunts com-ing from the crowd.
Young saw playing time dur -
ing each of the Gators’ 37 games in largely a backup role behind three veteran frontcourt players. He aver -aged 3.4 points per game, but was a force defensively with a team-high 31 blocks.
At one point, Young saw he was 
listed as a potential lottery pick on an ESPN.com NBA Draft story. He asked his dad on a car ride from Gainesville if he should leave and go to the pros after the season was over. 
Robert quickly cited academics as 
a reason to stay at Florida, but it was ultimately Patric’s choice to come back.
“Forget the basketball, I feel 
like I’ve matured to an exponential level,” Young said. “Before I can become a pro, I have to be a profes-sional. I have to step on the court and be consistent every day, have the right mindset and be coachable every day.”
  
It took a while for Young to grow 
into his body.
His mother, Bennita Young, 52, 
can recall a lanky, awkward Patric running around in the midst of one of his 6-inch growth spurts. 
From an early age, both of 
Young’s parents decided he would refrain from playing football like his dad, who graduated from Bethune-Cookman and spent three seasons in the USFL. Instead, Young focused on travel team baseball and AAU bas-ketball.
While he could make a throw 
from third base to first on a rope, Young was not as initially comfort-able on the court.
“He would fall down and what 
not,” Robert said. “And I used to tease him and say, ‘Man, I’m hoping one day you’ll be the ugly duckling, who turns into a swan.’”
By the time he was in eighth 
grade, Young’s coordination caught up to his body. He began lifting weights with his dad in the morn-ings at the YMCA. Once he started seeing his body change, he became addicted to the process.
During high school, Young even-
tually stepped into the HIT Center in Jacksonville, which specializes in high intensity workouts and laid the foundation for his chiseled frame to-day.
“He was the only one to go ev-
ery day; the other boys were a little scared and didn’t want to do it,” Robert said. “But he was determined ... He wanted to get himself better and get the team better.”
It was Young’s raw strength, 
though, that ultimately led to some of the struggles he had last year. 
For the first time, Young regu-
larly went up against other players who were just as tough and physi-cal as he was, like Tennessee’s Brian Williams and the Vanderbilt duo of Festus Ezeli and Steve Tchiengang. He couldn’t just take the ball and dominate.
In practice, departed seniors Ver -
non Macklin and Alex Tyus provid-ed a similar test.
“I was the biggest, strongest guy, 
possibly, in the state in high school,” Young said. “Those guys that are re-ally physical, it was a different story because I couldn’t do what I wanted to do. I had to work and learn to play smart.”
  
After the departure of Macklin, 
Tyus and Chandler Parsons, Young has been faced with a new challenge whenever the Gators scrimmage and go through drills.
There’s no longer anyone in the 
frontcourt with the experience or strength to stand toe-to-toe with Young, so his teammates resort to fouling him, which in turn, irritates his competitive nature.
“Guys are grabbing him, slapping 
him, and it becomes frustrating,” coach Billy Donovan said. “And there’s times when that stuff bleeds over into it affecting him emotion-ally. And he’s got to learn how to re-ally control his emotions.”
Although Donovan wanted to 
cut back on the fouls a little, saying Young was being “butchered,” he also knew it was necessary prepara-tion for what Young will see in his sophomore season.
“I’ll get fouled here and there 
and he’s not going to call it just to see how I’ll react,” Young said. “I’ve grown up a lot in that sense, because last year, I probably would have just completely shut down.”
The Gators are playing what 
Donovan calls the toughest schedule in his 16 seasons at Florida, featur -
ing nonconference games against  No. 3 Ohio State, No. 5 Syracuse, No. 16  Arizona and 20th-ranked Texas A&M.
In that stretch, Young will be 
called on to be the main defensive presence against Buckeyes center Jared Sullinger, Orange forward Kris Joseph and the Aggies’ Khris Middleton, all of whom are on the Naismith Award Watch List for the nation’s top player.
“The worst thing for Patric (in 
practice) would be him to get the ball, growl, be mean and all of the sudden, like the Red Sea parts and people just let him go in for a layup,” Donovan said. “He needs this right now. That would be the worst thing for him. He needs this right now be-cause that’s what’s going to happen when we play.”
  Young has been no stranger to 
new coaches during his career.
After committing to Florida in 
his junior year while playing at Jacksonville Paxon School for Ad-vanced Studies, a school known for its academics, he decided to transfer to Providence School, a more athleti-cally competitive school, in pursuit of his first state championship.
During his final year of high 
school, Young played on a prep dream team of sorts that included two other Division-I recruits in Ken-tucky guard Stacey Poole and UCF power forward Wayne Martin.
“I knew he was going to be the 
piece that put us off the chart, which is exactly what happened,” Provi-dence High coach Jim Martin said. “That guy was just a fierce competi-tor and just a natural born leader. Patric was the glue that kept it all together.”
The Stallions lost just one game 
during their 2A State Championship season and they finished ranked in the top 10 nationally.
While the buzz around Young’s 
abilities as a player skyrocketed dur -
ing his last two years, culminating in a Parade and McDonald’s All-Amer -
ican season, it also came with some negative attention from recruiters and college coaches.“You got a whole lot of mail box-
es, a lot of phone calls — a whole lot of illegal phone calls — a whole lot of illegal visits, not too many, but some that would pull him out of class,” Robert said of the recruiting process. “It was getting ugly for a minute.”
The one positive for Young and 
his parents was their interaction with former UF assistant and current VCU head coach Shaka Smart.
Though he was only at Florida for 
one season, Smart did all the right things when recruiting Young.  Un-like some of the other schools Young was looking at, the Gators’ staff nev-er harassed his family or acted un-professionally, Robert said.
“I know it’s a job and you want 
to get some athletes, but Patric just loved that relationship that he had with Shaka,” Robert said. “It was just the thing where we all fell in love with him and that’s why he’s doing so well at Virginia Common-wealth.”
When Smart did leave to take  
what would become a Final Four job with the Rams, Young still had a good relationship with then-Gators assistant coach Larry Shyatt.
As a man with three older sons, 
Shyatt was able to step in during games and calm Young when he would get in what Robert called “a mood.” But Shyatt left Florida, too, taking the head coaching position at Wyoming this season. 
  
Much like his final year with Prov-
idence, Young is loaded with huge expectations as both a Naismith and Wooden Watch List candidate on a top 10 team.
On a young squad with a largely 
unfamiliar coaching staff, he has the chance to take on the leadership role inside the paint that he wasn’t able to grasp as a freshman.
When he sat down during the off-
season and watched some of his im-mature moments and emotional re-actions on film, he was taken aback.
“Coach Donovan has shown me 
that, it wasn’t pretty,” Young said. “I was in disbelief.”
But instead of lingering on his 
tough transition to college basketball or getting caught up in his own hype again, Young is starting a new sea-son with a fresh perspective.
After finding out his son had been 
named to the Wooden Award list, Robert texted Patric his congratula-tions.
“He texted back and said, ‘Dad, 
I’m not playing for John Wooden, I’m playing for God.’”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.
Editor Tom Green      Assistant Editor Matt Watts        Cover Illustration Dana Burke and Matt Watts
 Alligator       Thursday, November 10, 2011TIPOFF
Young learning path to maturity, successGrowing Pains
Alligator File Photo
Young has been fouled a lot in practice, something coach Billy Donovan 
said would help prepare him for UF’s tough nonconference schedule.Alligator File Photo
Florida sophomore center Patric Young has struggled with high expectations out of high school. As a freshman last season, he averaged just 3.4 points per game playing behind three veteran frountcourt players.
� UF OPENS SEASON AT HOME FRIDAY NIGHT 
AGAINST JACKSON STATE AT 7.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
For the first time in his college career last Thursday, red-
shirt junior Mike Rosario was forced to take in his team’s 
opening exhibition tip-off from the sidelines.
After starting nearly every game in his two years at 
Rutgers, Rosario is trying on a new mantle to begin this season. He’s one of the Gators’ first guards off the bench in a crowded, six-man rotation.
“Everyone has a role and when you’re playing on a tal-
ented team like this, you got to be willing to do whatever your team needs you to do,” he said. “You have to be will-ing to accept that and embrace it and I feel like my role is what you seen [against Catholic].”
Though Rosario’s 24 minutes on the court were down 
from the 33.1 he averaged with the Scarlet Knights, his pro-duction stayed high against the Cardinals with 18 points coming on 4-of-7 shooting from behind the arc.
During the last two seasons, UF starting guards Erving 
Walker, a senior, and junior Kenny Boynton haven’t had a deep threat to add depth and keep defenses honest like Rosario or freshman Bradley Beal, who also went 4 of 7 from three.
The results showed in a pair of mediocre 3-point shoot-
ing years during which Florida shot 35.2 percent in 2010-2011 and 31.3 percent the year before. Last season alone, Walker and Boynton were responsible for 70 percent of the Gators’ 3-point attempts.
“I don’t think there’s any question,” coach Billy Dono-
van said. “They’re going to relieve some pressure off those guys in a positive way. Those two guys are warriors; they play a lot of minutes. There’s been a lot on their shoul-ders.”
The demands have also been lessened for Rosario, who 
was once responsible for a large volume of his team’s 3-point shooting in Piscataway, N.J.  
In two years, he shot 491 threes — 
more than either Boynton or Walker — making 31.4 percent of them.
“Basically, in every spot we have a 
good backup and a good second string-er,” Rosario said. “The team that we have coming in for the starters is basically the same thing. … That’s what’s really go-ing to help our team, coming in for those 
guys for a little bit and distributing and making plays.”
Heading into Friday night’s season opener against Jack-
son State at 7, the Gators’ backcourt will get even deeper with the return of sophomore point guard Scottie Wilbekin from an injury to his index finger.
While Wilbekin’s offensive impact wasn’t missed in 
No. 8 Florida’s 114-57 win against Catholic — he shot just 28.3 percent from three last season — Walker said the team  could have used his toughness.
“He’s one of those guards that’s going to get in there 
and bang,” Walker said. “He’s going to play great defense and just run the team. He does a good job at that.”
With another player to add to the fold, Donovan said 
his starting lineup of Boynton, Walker, Beal and big men Patric Young and Erik Murphy will likely stay the same against the Tigers.
“Because of our depth in the backcourt, we’re going to 
rotate those guys,” Donovan said. “So the starting part of it, I don’t think is necessarily that important to me. It may be important to them, but right now I feel comfortable with what we’ve done so far.” 
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org.
Gators’ depth at guard expected to help 3-point shooting percentage this season
Rosario
“Before I can become a pro, 
I have to be a professional. 
I have to step on the court 
and be consistent every day, 
have the right mindset and be 
coachable every day.”
Patric Young
UF sophomore centerVOLUME 106 ISSUE 58 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
New social platform debuts in Gainesville
One of the co-founders graduated from UF in 
2008, pg. 5. Report: Teen students experience sexual harassment
Majority of respondents said harassment was verbal, pg 3.  
Christmas Cronyism is ridiculous
Christmas tree farmers taxed to promote tree industry, pg 6. 
77/43
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 11
CROSSWORD  13SPORTS 15Flip to page 8 
in today’s issue of 
the Avenue for a 
glimpse of UF’s 
production of 
“Chicago.” 
 Amanda Cohen / Alligator
  Asian Kaleidoscope Month and the Pride Student Union joined forces to present LGBT Stories: Queer in 
Asian America, a panel discussion featuring Pauline Park, Andy Sun, Natalie Nguyen and Ernie Selorio Jr. on Wednesday evening in Ustler Hall. 
ADMINISTRATION
  ERIN JESTER
 Alligator Writer
  The Florida Board of Governors recom-
mended Wednesday that UF rework its 
proposal to expand its dental program with Florida A&M University and return with a less costly proposal in January. 
  The Board, which was expected to vote 
on the proposal Wednesday, expressed sup-port for the collaboration between the two schools, but several members balked at the proposed costs, which amount to $6 million in recurring funds by the program’s fourth year.
  UF and FAMU’s proposal aimed to in-
crease the number of dentists in Florida’s rural and under-served areas and increase diversity of dental students by expanding UF’s program by 48 students over the course of four years. 
  UF has requested an initial $2.2 million for 
renovations to the dental science building.
  Some members voiced concerns about the cost to the state of each new dental student under the expansion.
  UF President Bernie Machen countered 
that intense programs such as dental medi-cine have always cost more than others.
  Board member Dean Colson reminded 
fellow members there is a problem with the lack of dentists practicing in under-served and rural areas of the state.
  “I think it would be a worthwhile expen-
diture,” he said.
  The Board agreed to move the discussion out of the Strategic Planning Committee and hear a revised proposal with the entire Board of Governors at its next meeting in January. 
  The University of Central Florida on 
Tuesday withdrew its proposal for its own dental college. 
   “Although this innovative project does 
not require state appropriations, we are not moving forward at this time,” UCF spokes-man Grant Heston said in a statement. “We look forward to continuing to work on this project in the future.” 
 Board of Governors calls for cheaper dental school plans� THE SG-FUNDED GROUP WAS SUPPOSED TO HAND OUT FLIERS BY THIS MONTH.
  MEREDITH RUTLAND
 Alligator Staff Writer
  Santa Fe College’s task force 
against sexual harassment is prepar-
ing to tackle the issue of catcalls, but initiatives may not see light until December.
  Ashleigh Bennett, chair of the 
task force and Student Government vice president, said it plans to host an awareness event in February and to set up an incident phone and email hotline.
  In October, Bennett said she 
hoped to see the task force handing out informational ﬂ  iers by Novem-ber. That time line has been pushed back to December.  Bennett said it will probably be 
mostly funded by 
Student Govern-ment. The task force must sub-mit a proposal to SG before it can get funding, but Bennett said she anticipates a budget between 
$1,000 and $4,000.  Students are taking the lead with 
the task force, which was formed in October, because college adminis-tration wants to take a peer-to-peer approach, Bennett said.
  Federal and state laws about sex-
ual harassment include provisions requiring schools to maintain their own sexual harassment policies.
  If a student is caught in an act of 
verbal harassment, Bennett said, the college advisement department will decide the punishment. 
If it’s physical harassment, the 
college police could get involved.
  Ed Book, SFC police chief, said 
his department will be following SG’s lead. He said the police depart-ment would be involved, but he wasn’t sure what the extent of that involvement would be.
  The task force was founded after 
a SFC professor brought the issue of catcalling to SG in October. 
 SFC sexual harassment task force at an indeﬁ  nite standstill
Bennett
  AMANDA COHEN
 Alligator Contributing Writer 
  The Asian American Student 
Union and Pride Student Union 
joined forces Wednesday evening in Ustler Hall to share the experi-ences people with dual-minority identity face.
  “It’s really hard to bridge the 
gap between being queer and API (Asian and Paciﬁ  c Islander), especially because API parents bring up their children with such strict gender binaries,” said Andy Sun, a 19-year-old econom-ics sophomore.
  Sun, along with three other 
panelists, participated in “LGBT Stories: Queer in Asian America,” which was part of  the 18th annu-al Asian Kaleidoscope Month.
  Keynote speaker Pauline 
Park, chair of the New York As-sociation for Gender Rights Ad-vocacy, said deﬁ  ning the LGBTQ communities requires recogniz-ing diversity.
  “The point is not to bring to-
gether people who share a com-mon identity but who share a common oppression,” said Park, 51.
  Sun said he has to maintain a 
certain standard around his fam-ily, not cutting his hair too short and not discussing his sex life.
  However, self-acceptance is the 
most important thing, Sun said in an interview after the panel.“Then you can be conﬁ  dent in how others perceive you,” he said, “but you have to develop that strength within yourself ﬁ  rst.”  LGBT panel talks  
dual-minorities
“It’s really hard to 
bridge the gap between 
being queer and API (Asian 
and Paciﬁ  c Islander)...”
Andy Sun
UF sophomoreNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 58 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Edit
orial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerThe Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
IDEAL Fall Open House
Today , 7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. 
Come out to the group’s Fall Open House for more informa-tion about the organization and how to become an IDEAL am-
bassador . 
Asian Kaleidoscope Month at 
Museum Nights “Soaring Voices”
Today, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.Harn Museum of ArtAsian Kaleidoscope Month is a co-sponsor of the Harn Museum of Art’s upcoming Museum Nights. Check out this particu-lar event to view the Japanese art exhibit “Soaring V oices,”  eat 
Mochi bonbons, enjoy cham-pagne and chocolate and listen to a professional Japanese sto-
ryteller. 
Mango Underground Open Mic 
Night Today, 10:30 p.m.Red Mango at 34th Street and Archer RoadJoin Spit Fire,  a new UF Christian spoken word organization, at Mango Underground’s open 
mic night. 
Asian Arts & Entertainment 
Festival Closing Ceremony
Friday, 6 p.m. to 10:30 p.m.Reitz Union AmphitheaterThe ceremony will feature per -
formances by comedian Kevin Shea, music by musician Kina Grannis and talent from local performers. A meet and greet will also take place after the appear in the paper. 
LOCAL
Man alerts police of gunman at 
Brandywine Condominiums
Police responded to a 911 
call reporting an armed man at Brandywine Condominiums on Wednesday night.
Cpl. Angelina Valuri, pub-
lic information officer for the Gainesville Police Department, said a Brandywine resident called police after he said some-one knocked at his door. When he opened it, a black man shot at him, he told police.
Valuri said the resident waited 
about 30 minutes after the gun-shot before placing his 911 call.
No one was injured, she saidPolice went to the apartment 
complex to look for the armed man but made no arrests as of press time.
— EMILY MORROWshow. 
UF4Thai Flood Relief: 
Fundraising Dinner
Saturday, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.First Lutheran ChurchUF4Thai Flood Relief is a movement started by the Thai Student Association at UF to raise awareness about the flood in Thailand and raise money for its victims. The fundraising dinner will serve Thai food and provide entertainment. All proceeds and donations will go to-ward Thai Red Cross. Please email tsagator@gmail.com for advance ticket purchases. Advanced tickets are $9; door price is $10. Free admission for children younger than 12. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/55MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
82/58SUNNY
73/49SUNNY
65/39PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/43
 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
safety 
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
About half of all seventh through 12th 
grade students reported that they were sexu-
ally harassed during the last school year.
According to a report released Monday 
by the American Association of University Women, of 1,965 students surveyed across the country , 56 percent of girls and 40 percent of boys said they had been sexually harassed. Of those respondents, 87 percent said the harass-ment had a negative impact on them.
The U.S. Department of Education defines 
sexual harassment as any “unwelcome con-duct of a sexual nature.” This includes actions like making sexual jokes or gestures, creating or displaying sexually explicit images, and in-appropriate touching or requests.
The majority of respondents who said they 
had experienced sexual harassment said it was verbal. Thirty-three percent of students said others had made unwelcome sexual com-ments, gestures or jokes to them, and 18 per -
cent said they had been called gay or lesbian in a negative way.
Two percent of students said they had been 
forced to perform sexual acts. 
Phyllis Erney, a guidance counselor at Ka-
napaha Middle School, said school officials see sex-related issues start to occur when students enter seventh grade.
“When they move up from sixth to seventh 
grade, their hormones start kicking in and they start paying attention to the opposite sex,” she said. “We end up with a lot more drama and we start to have boy-girl issues.”
As a result, Kanapaha Middle counselors 
gave seventh grade classrooms counseling ses-sions this week on sexual harassment, teach-ing students the differences between “flirting and hurting.”
Erney said counselors encourage students 
to talk to a trusted adult or to see a counselor if they are being harassed. 
According to the study, only about 9 per -
cent of students who said they had been ha-rassed said they told a school official about the incident.
Pamela Garcia, a guidance counselor at 
Santa Fe High School, said there were three reported incidents of sexual harassment dur -
ing the first nine weeks of the 2009-2010 school year at Santa Fe. Last year, there were four. This year, there weren’t any.
Garcia said she thinks online harassment 
is becoming more prevalent — a trend that is more difficult to avoid as well as prevent.Though 44 percent of students said they ex-
perienced harassment in school, about a third said they were harassed online, via pictures, texts, Facebook messages or rumors that were spread.
Catherine Hill, co-author of the study , said 
online harassment can be particularly trou-bling for students.
“E-harassment is invisible to others,” she 
said. “It’s very invasive. It can be 24/7. It’s hard for teachers and parents to know what’s going on.”
Students who said they had been sexually 
harassed said they often didn’t want to go to school, felt sick to their stomach and had trou-ble studying or sleeping.
“[Sexual harassment] can be a challenging 
topic to talk about,” Hill said. “It’s much more comfortable to talk about bullying. But this is a question of how students are treating each other in schools that is incredibly important for us to address.”
Study finds that sexual harassment common for teenagers
“This is a question of how        
students are treating each other in 
schools that is incredibly important 
for us to address.”
Catherine Hill
co-author of the study4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
AUBREY PRIMER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Austin Cooley and Niko Ralf 
Cunningham are redefining the 
word “quilt.” 
For Cooley, 25, and Cunning-
ham, 34, starting a social media platform to account for the gray area present within popular social networking websites made sense.
“We don’t think we’re just an-
other Facebook,” said Cooley, who graduated from UF in 2008 with a bachelor’s degree in computer en-gineering.
Cooley, along with Cunning-
ham and Shane Mooney, co-found-er and chief technical officer, who graduated from UF in 2008 with a bachelor’s degree in computer science, founded Quillt about six months ago. 
Quillt integrates the utilities of 
text messaging, sending videos and sharing photographs on a so-cial platform similar to a private news feed. 
The platform allows users to 
connect privately with the people they care most about, Cooley said. 
Cooley and Cunningham came 
to Gainesville this week to launch the application, which currently is available only to UF email address holders.
“UF felt like home,” Cooley 
said.
Cunningham, who graduated 
from Columbia University in 2009 with a bachelor’s degree in eco-nomics and from Harvard Uni-versity in 2010 with a master’s in technology and innovation, said having the launch in Gainesville made “perfect sense.”
Wednesday night, they hosted 
a local launch party at The Swamp Restaurant.
Since its official launch on Sat-
urday, Quillt has accumulated a waiting list of more than 600 peo-ple. Users who join the application 
must have friends who already are using it. 
However, Cunningham said 
new users might be admitted in waves. 
Cooley spoke about starting 
Quillt and the application’s fu-ture to about 15 UF students on Wednesday. 
“I think what got me to this 
point is constant, constant, con-stant hard work and never giving up,” Cooley said. 
The stitching of Quillt began 
with the Kauffman Labs Education Ventures Program.
The program selected 23 entre-
preneurs with education-centered endeavors from a competitive pool of 1,000 people. 
Cooley presented a business 
plan promoting Youtorial, a soft-ware-training platform, and Cun-ningham’s plan focused on the connection of high school students with college mentors in their pro-spective career fields. 
When participants were told 
they would be given living assign-ments, Cunningham requested to live with Cooley. The two didn’t know each other yet, but someone Cunningham met prior to the pro-gram told him he should keep an eye on Cooley.
“Each of them had different at-
tributes that we observed that have worked well together,” said Sandy Miller, director of Kauffman Labs for Enterprise Creation.
Cooley and Cunningham first 
presented ForgetWeNot, Quillt’s prototype, to Miller and the rest of the Kauffman Labs Education Ven-tures Program.“I just loved it,” Miller said. “I 
thought it was really special — it would be appealing to people in many different contexts.”
Quillt’s four interfaces, Apps 
for iPhone, Android, SMS and web, were developed on a “shoe-string budget.” 
Constructing the application’s 
multiple platforms cost about $100,000, Cunningham said. 
So far, Quillt has raised about 
$250,000. 
“Right now, building the prod-
uct, we have been blessed,” Cun-ningham said.
Similar established social media 
websites are worth anywhere from $40 million to $100 million, and Cooley and Cunningham aspire to be among them. 
With about 20 employees, Cool-
ey and Cunningham figured their staff is being paid at an hourly rate of about $8. This shows the convic-tions of the Quillt staff and their belief in the product, Cooley and Cunningham said.
Quillt’s group of investors and 
advisers, including Facebook co-founder Andrew McCollum, has provided a council of experienced and driven individuals to help feed Quillt’s potential. 
“My impression [of Cooley 
and Cunningham] was that they were really kind of dynamic and charismatic,” said Randy Scott, Quillt investor and entrepreneur. “They had passion for what they were doing and they seemed like they could be really resourceful.” David Whitney, investor in Quillt and entrepreneur in residence of the UF College of Engineering, said he thinks Quillt will be “game-changing.” 
“Quillt fills the holes or voids 
that Facebook creates,” Whitney said.
With trends in private sharing 
becoming more apparent, compe-tition among social networks for mind space and users is growing.
“I think private sharing is a 
problem that is not yet solved,” said Rich Pearson, vice president of marketing for Posterous, an on-line publishing platform with ini-tiatives similar to those of Quillt’s.
“The ability to connect with 
your friends, privately, from any-where you are is what we’re huge-ly trying to solve,” he said.
Pearson said that based on the 
numbers he is seeing, companies pursuing solutions to this “prob-lem” are going to do well.
Cooley said Quillt’s business 
model is to connect and engage us-ers on an intimate level. 
“It’s about preserving memo-
ries,” Cooley said.
For more information on Quillt, 
visit quillt.com THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Niko Ralf Cunningham and Austin Cooley pose with the statue of Albert A. Murphree on Wednesday, 
showing off their new social media platform Quillt, which is accessible by smartphones.
Local entrepreneurs launch new social media platformTECHNOLOGYReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR103 TOTAL VOTES59% YES
41% NOWednesday’s question: Have you ever 
had Cheerwine?Today’s question: Have you ever been a victim of 
sexual harassment?Christmas Cronyism  
Tax to promote tree 
industry is absurd  
Let’s face it. People who buy artificial Christmas trees are 
just plain un-American. 
At least that’s what’s implied by the U.S. Department 
of Agriculture’s latest plan to promote real Christmas trees this holiday season. 
The National Christmas Tree Association lobbied the USDA 
to levy a 15-cent fee per Christmas tree to create a campaign to promote … Christmas trees. 
To rephrase, the government is taxing the Christmas tree in-
dustry to promote the Christmas tree industry . 
Let that sink in for a second. The fee will go to a proposed Christmas Tree Promotion 
Board, which will create advertising campaigns to encourage consumers to purchase real Christmas trees. 
The increase in sales of artificial trees has sparked this move 
by the “fresh” tree industry . 
The Chicago Tribune reported that according to the USDA, 
real tree “sales declined from 37 million in 1991 to 31 million in 2007,” while artificial tree sales “nearly doubled.” 
But not all Christmas tree growers are happy about the plan. 
About 565 comments were submitted to the USDA about the plan and 147 of those comments were not pleased with the deci-sion. 
However, growers opposed to the plan still have to pay the 
15-cent fee, saying that the plan represents the wishes of large wholesale growers. 
In response to criticisms, White House spokesman Matt Leh-
rich told ABC news that the new fee was not a tax but “an indus-try group deciding to impose fees on itself to fund a promotional campaign.” 
Yet, with opposition among some industry growers, this ar -
gument falls flat. Despite the fact that “an industry group” fa-vors the plan, of course it is still a tax. 
The Christmas tree industry should be responsible for pro-
moting its own industry by paying its own advertising cam-paign. 
While large wholesale growers will be able to absorb the cost 
of this fee without passing it to consumers, smaller growers will more than likely embed the cost in their price. 
But of more importance in this entire controversy is the fact 
that the government is actively supporting the “real” Christmas tree industry instead of the artificial market. 
Large wholesale tree growers are using the government to 
tax the entire “real” tree industry to create an ad campaign that they would otherwise have to pay for out of pocket. 
While the issue seems insignificant, this story represents an-
other blatant example of the government choosing favorites, while the little guy suffers. 
There is no “national” Christmas tree industry. There are only 
individual growers with individual companies who should all have to compete by their own effort.People don’t take sexual harassment seriously
Two weeks ago, I wrote a column about Herman 
Cain. My point was simple: Cain is not really a vi-able contender. We all know it, and humoring an-
other GOP sideshow is just allowing for more eccentric antics that distract from what should be a serious discus-sion about the person who will likely become the next president of the U.S.
Shortly after it was published, news broke about Cain’s 
history of sexual harassment. Despite his denials, it sur -
faced that multiple women filed complaints against him, and that out-of-court cash settlements had been used to shove the whole thing under the rug. He didn’t handle reporters’ questions about the topic very well. I was posi-tive this revelation would prove my article right, destroy Cain’s campaign and ultimately lead to Mitt Romney’s breakaway success for the remainder of the race.
But that didn’t happen. Cain’s poll numbers are as 
strong as ever. Aggressive retorts didn’t hurt his image, and vague accusations didn’t hurt his chances. Even a lit-tle ridiculous gospel singing has had no effect. I still don’t think there’s any chance Cain will become the Republican nominee for president, but he’s not going away just yet.
Why? Because nobody seems to care that he harassed 
his female employees. Republican voters don’t take it seri-ously. And while part of that is due to rampant Tea Party fervor and zealous Koch funding, I think there’s some-thing even more sinister at work than normal politics.
The bigger problem is that we live in a culture where 
sexual harassment isn’t taken seriously. For all of the le-gal hurdles a corporation has to jump in order to avoid lawsuits against their male employees, some Republicans see it differently. When it comes down to what’s talked about at the dinner table, litigants in these sorts of situ-ations are the greedy liars looking to turn a buck off of some innocent comments about their bust size.
And conservatives everywhere are jumping at the op-
portunity to use that common thought process to defend Cain. 
As talk radio host Laura Ingraham says, “We have seen 
this movie before, and we know how it ends. It always ends up being an employee who can’t perform or who underper -
forms and is looking for a little green.”
Sure. That’s the explanation. 
Never mind the fact that prov-ing a hostile work environment in court is much tougher than people like Ingraham would have you believe. Never mind 
the fact that most sexual harassment allegations are thrown out by judges during summary judgment. Never mind the fact that we don’t know anything at all about what happened between Cain and those women. Even with nothing to go on, we can always turn to the common knowledge that women who sue for sexual harassment complaints are just lazy workers looking for their day in court.
This isn’t just about Cain. This is about gender in 
America. This is about almost half of our middle- and high-school age children experiencing sexual harassment in the last year, and this is about people reacting to the studies that prove those numbers by claiming it’s just an-other attempt to wage war against free speech.
This is about sexual stereotypes that won’t go away. 
This is about a society that somehow believes we’ve moved on from sexual harassment, that sexism no longer exists and that frivolous suits are a diabolical scheme by the duplicitous feminist agenda.
Sexism is alive and well in America, and pretending it’s 
not doesn’t make it go away. Doing so only strengthens it, allows it to thrive and allows men like Cain to continue to strive for our most heralded government position.
Maybe suing because of Ladies’ Nights is a bit ridicu-
lous. I’m open to debate on that. But the last thing we should be doing is pretending cases like those define the gender battle that’s ongoing in our country.
Sexual harassment is real, and it matters.Alex Guilmartin is a psychology and pre-law senior at UF. 
His column appears on Thursdays.
Alex Guilmartin
letters@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 7
Bus Drivers’ Union offers condolences to injured biker 
 On behalf of the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1579, 
I would like to express our condolences to Mr. Abdellatief 
and his family for the trauma and injuries he has suffered and express our wishes for his full recovery. 
 Mary Frances Folz Donahue
President, ATU 1579
  
Unite dominates SG, kills bills promoting democracy
 This past summer, when many students were gone study-
ing abroad, doing internships and relaxing at home, the Unite 
Party was busy pushing through corrupt, tyrannical legisla-tion. One of the most corrupt changes it made was adding the ability to kill any bill based on its “implication,” a virtually meaningless term that the minority argued gave Unite the abil-ity to kill bills it didn’t like before the Student Senate got to vote on them. 
  That’s exactly what this change has done. Since the Fall elec-
tion, the Unite Party has already killed three bills in one meet-ing before the public got a chance to see them. One was from a senator utilizing his right to express his religious freedom, something that should never be silenced and certainly not si-lenced in an obscure committee meeting. Unite killed a bill that tried to make the majority-ruled Senate Executive Committee, composed of seven Unite chairmen, acknowledge the voices and opinions of the minority party. And in a ﬁ  nal act of tyr-anny , Unite killed a bill to make the position of parliamentarian non-partisan, despite the fact that the current parliamentarian, a supposedly unbiased voice, managed campaign materials for Unite in the fall. 
  Unite is not merely content with its supermajority control, it 
demands total, one-party domination and is doing everything within its power to crush the minority voice of the Senate. It ignores not only minority senators, but also their constituents — students at this university . 
  Unite’s message is clear: If you do not agree with it, your 
opinion will not be heard. This is unscrupulous, undemocratic and un-American. Unite and its leaders should be ashamed by their blatant disregard for basic democratic rights. 
 Carly Wilson 
UF SG Senator
Students Party Communications Director
   Steve Jobs’ sister recently revealed his ﬁ  nal 
words to be “Oh wow. Oh wow. Oh wow.”
  This sentiment caused a stir as everyone 
attempted to read into his ﬁ  nal six syllables.
  What was he experiencing? Is the light at the 
end of the tunnel deserving of such language?
  Perhaps Jobs, being the incredible showman 
he was, was well aware of the media frenzy that would follow his death. He knew his death would be monitored as the iPad 2 launch was a few months prior, and he wanted to leave the world guessing.
  I, somehow, have a hard time believing that.  The recently published transcript of his eulogy 
given by his sister, Mona Simpson, illuminates the man behind the acid-washed jeans and black mock turtlenecks.
  Though he built up a company whose stock is 
about as successful as one can be, Jobs tried to stay grounded. Despite his fame, the words of his sister portray him deeper than the man who graced the cover of Time magazine eight times.  
  Why are we so interested in ﬁ  nal words?  Final words are distinctly different from what 
graces someone’s epitaph. Unless our will is ex-plicit, usually someone else writes those ﬁ  nal words that the world remembers you by . Final words come directly from the deceased persons themselves.
  The afterlife, death, the mortality of human 
existence. Humans are obsessed with death. But words offer an escape from the ﬁ  nality of the end. Beauty will fail, your hair will thin, but words live on forever.
  Shakespeare knew 
words could live longer than he ever could. The bard has been dead for al-most 400 years but most 
high school graduates will have read something he penned. He’s part of our collective memory.
  The ﬁ  nal couple in Sonnet 18 reads “So long as 
men can breathe or eyes can see, / So long lives this and this gives life to thee.”
  It could be read as beauty always being present 
in the youth, but upon a close reading, we realize that these ﬁ  nal lines are about the poem itself.
  As long as men can see the print or someone is 
able to recite the poem, the sonnet is alive.
  Words are what give humans immortality; our 
novels live forever in the Library of Congress, and our blog posts will forever haunt the intern on serv-ers hidden away in dark basements.
  Final words are that last part of a person we can 
hold on to, that part of themselves they created.
    “Think different,” Apple’s trademark slogan, is 
just as important to us as our iPods, but the ﬁ  nality of Jobs’ last words will stay with us.
  We lost an amazing innovator last month; a man 
who truly changed the way we talk about technol-ogy and integrate it into our lives.
  His legacy is a great one, but he left us with a 
new view on the end of our lives: “Oh wow. Oh wow. Oh wow.”
  Francesca Morizio is a columnist for The Eagle at 
American University.  Final words live on after death UWire
   What is the role of govern-
ment? That is a question we need to be asking 
more often. Today, the govern-ment ignores the Constitution and decides what areas it wants to in-trude into. One of these areas is en-titlements, and the problem keeps growing.
  The role of the U.S. government 
was not to give people a retirement, provide medical care, give money to the unemployed, help people sell their houses, give out student loans or bail out  businesses. This entitle-ment system is unsustainable, and it’s because the government decid-ed to give a certain group of people money because it became corrupt.
  The government is a monopoly. 
There isn’t another government to compete with it. So, when you decide to allow the government to give out money from taxpayers to certain people, you get a bureau-cracy. Today the entitlement pro-gram has caused many of our cur-rent economic issues.
  This whole idea that the gov-
ernment is responsible for your well-being started after the Great Depression and Franklin 
Roosevelt’s New Deal. He started social security, subsidies and in-creased taxes. We have been taught that FDR saved the economy and got us out of the Great Depression, but I would argue that is not the case. 
     So what should the role of gov-
ernment be? How about to ensure your right to provide for you and your family and not let someone or something else infringe on your right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness? Let’s start taking re-sponsibility for ourselves instead of asking the government to take care of us. That will help solve some of our economic issues we are cur-rently facing. You want a happier life? Do what Ben Franklin did and go get it yourself instead of asking the government to.
  Cory Thomas is a columnist for 
The Nevada Sagebrush at the Univer-sity of Nevada. 
 Civic involvement is good UWire
Cory Thomas
UWireFrancesca 
Morizio
UWiretheAvenue    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
Dude, Where’s My Blog? 
Check out the Alligator’s hottest new blog posts featuring what causes 
the urge to travel, iconic fashion pieces and a look into the dazzle of one Bollywood actress. Visit alligator.org/blogs. Venture over to alligator.org/the_avenue for the lowdown on the Bear Creek Music and Arts Festival in Live Oak.   Twit Pick
@TheEllenShow: “I was so excited to 
gain an hour from daylight savings time. Then it took me two hours to change my clocks, so technically, I lost an hour.” Shari Thompson / Alligator 
Katrina Asmar (Velma Kelly) and Taylor Rector (Roxie Hart) re-
hearse for the UF School of Theater and Dance’s “Chicago.”
 He Says…He said, she said: 
What’s a healthy 
amount of jealousy?
I’m going to come right out and 
say it — I’m a hypocrite when it comes to jealousy. I tell friends 
all the time to fight off the pangs of anger and trust their partners. Yet, when I see a guy who’s better look-ing, richer or more suave than me talking to my girlfriend, I imme-diately throw on the death stare. If this sounds like you, don’t feel bad. It’s hard to practice what you preach when it comes to jealousy.
I’ve also had to sit at home 
while an ex-girlfriend got lunch with a guy friend or stood alone at the bar while my girl got chat-ted up by some rando who doesn’t know she’s taken. It’s annoying as hell, yes, but it doesn’t merit jeal-ous feelings. Honestly, what could actually result from these situa-tions? Your partner isn’t going to fall in love with his or her friend after one lunch date. You have to convince yourself that the emo-tions just aren’t worth the trouble.
However, if your boyfriend or 
girlfriend begins to hang out with this “friend” all the time, if they flirt with each other and your part-ner starts to put him or her ahead of you, then you have some solid reasons to get upset. Actions like these raise suspicions and put your relationship in jeopardy. Be-ing a couple means putting each other before anyone else. If this isn’t happening, then by all means 
wave the jealousy flag. 
– JACOB ROMOSER 
Once upon a time in the 
land of Everything is Awe-some, there lived a girl 
who was completely secure.  She only felt happiness for those who were more successful than her and utmost appreciation for all of the positive things in her life.  There was no need to complain, feel in-adequate or belittle anyone else.  She was completely at peace.
Get real.I recently had a phone conver-
sation with one of my exes.  Keith T., now a 30-year-old pho-tographer and art teacher living in Brooklyn, is a guy I had dated and lived with for almost two years while enduring New York City during my early 20s.  Despite a rather exasper-ating breakup, Keith and I have remained kosher during the years with sporadic hangouts, emails, etc.  
Now when bringing up this old 
flame, it is important to mention the glaring conflict that ultimately divides Keith and I: our stances concerning infidelity. As discussed in a previous column, I bat for team cheating-is-a-deal-breaker, while Keith’s view is a bit more lenient. Bottom line: We agree to disagree, and, like any other friend, he and I also talk culture, politics and sex.  
Having never met or even 
heard about my current boyfriend, Keith asked about my relationship. I told him that the beau travels fre-quently with his job, a career that elicits a unanimous eyebrow raise from the general population in terms of sex-capades. While I do trust my boyfriend and calmly ad-dress with him any rare concerns I might have, I also admit that this 
scenario notoriously tests presumptions.
Keith’s reaction? “You 
just need to not be jeal-ous.”
Jealousy.  It’s a demon 
of a word.  How is it that in an instant, a person’s con-
fidence can be stripped to expose nothing but one’s competitive and vulnerable insecurities?  Is a jeal-ous reaction a sign of weakness, or is it an intuitive response to a real problem?  The answer really doesn’t matter.  I actually agree with Keith, for I know the only per-son who can establish well-being is myself.  As a result, I seek the zen of Everything is Awesome. 
— KAY BEA She Says…
SAPHIRA LAZARRE
Avenue Writer
A hot commodity in the smartphone world, the 
iPhone 4S is losing its cool when it comes to battery 
life. Many users of the phone and the iOS 5 update say they have seen dramatic decreases in the longevity of the phone’s battery , according to a Computer World article.
Since its mid-October release, the iPhone 4S has 
made many consumers glad they are “Team Apple.” However, some users blame the phone’s excessive ap-plication additions and updated operating system for a decline in its battery performance. 
Customers have vented to fellow users about their 
dissatisfaction with the iPhone’s battery life on the Ap-ple Support Communities website. The thread, titled “iPhone 4S Battery Life?” has more than 3,700 posts. 
However, health science freshman Audi Mendez, 
18, said she’s fine with the iPhone’s battery life.
“I have noticed that the battery drains a little quick-
er,” Mendez said, “but it’s worth the updates that the phone has.” Mendez owns the iPhone 4 but has the iOS 5 up-
date, which some customers believe is the cause of the battery drain.  
New to iPhone and Apple smartphone services, 
Jenna Blechman, 22, said she has yet to experience is-sues with the phone or its battery life. The psychology senior recently purchased the iPhone 4S and said she was “more than excited” when she heard the phone became available to Sprint carriers. 
“I believe it lives up to the hype,” Blechman said. 
“The speed of the [operating system] and the phone’s ability to do so many things at once is great. The only thing I’d complain about is not having an LED notifica-tion like my old BlackBerry does.” 
 Whatever the issue may be, we are sure Apple is 
working out the glitches, but we  may have to wait un-til the release of the next iPhone to see the results. Sounding off on iPhone 4S, updatestech ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer 
The prohibition era will razzle daz-
zle the Constans Theatre’s audience in 
the upcoming production of the be-loved musical “Chicago.” The show originated on Broadway long before the 2002 film release. Produced by the UF School of Theatre and Dance, the show will feature performances by undergraduate and graduate fine arts students. 
As I interviewed the spirited cast of 
“Chicago,” I realized the group would more  aptly be referred to as a family. 
During the rehearsal of the quint-
essential “Chicago” song, “The Cell Block Tango,” the family came alive. 
Director Tony Mata gave the cue. 
Seconds after, six young women who like to call themselves “Tony’s Angels” dragged simple chairs across the stage. As the piano started, Mata called, “Hold.” Unfazed, the performers sat in their seats and began to chitchat. One of the actresses politely excused her -
self to the restroom, and as she walked away, she slid and fell on the freshly cleaned stage. Laughter erupted from all who witnessed the fumble. 
“Quiet on stage please!” stage man-
ager Janiel Myers, a 19-year-old theater sophomore, barked from the control booth. 
That sparked Mata’s interest. “What happened?” he exclaimed. For the rest of this story, visit alligator.
org/the_avenue. UF takes own spin on hit ‘Chicago’
“I believe it lives up to the hype.”
Jenna Blechman
UF senior
KATE FELDMAN
Avenue writer
Here, have some wine with your cupcake.
Customers at Gainesville’s Sarkara Sweets, 
201 SE Second Ave., can now order wine to accompany their personalized cupcakes.
Customers can pick their cake, filling, frost-
ing and topping, and the cupcake is made in front of them for $3.50. Owned and operated by UF alumnae Stephanie and Susan Brown-ing, both 24, the bakery offers custom-made cupcakes, as well as vegan and gluten-free options.
“It’s a popular business to have,” Stepha-
nie said. “From a personal perspective, we enjoy doing it; from a business perspective, it was a smart decision. There’s not much com-
petition.”
 The owners, who said 
they sell more than 200 cup-cakes in a slow week, said they felt the need to add a touch of class to the menu. 
“Most restaurants, even 
the ones who don’t focus on 
alcohol as their main draw, make a decent liv-ing offering their customers drinks,” Stepha-nie said. “Younger women are interested in having a nice drink downtown, but they don’t want to deal with the bars and the lines.”
The bakery offers wine choices including 
local fruit wines such as Blackberry Raspber -ry Royale and Peach Panache. A small glass of red wine begins at $9. On the menu, sug-gestions are made for mixing wine and cup-cakes.
“We figure it will take some time for cus-tomers to become aware that you can come downtown for cupcakes and alcohol as a des-sert date in the evenings,” Stephanie said.
The cupcake trend has traveled nation-
ally , culminating in the reality TV show “Cupcake Wars” on the Food Network. But locally, Gainesville brides are catching on.
“I’d love to see more cupcakes,” said Mer -
edith Stanley , photographer and co-owner at Chic Shot Studio, a wedding photography studio in Gainesville. “I’ve seen a lot of cou-ples that have gotten engaged in the last year and many are planning on using cupcakes in their weddings.”
As for the appeal of the cupcakes, Stepha-
nie said there’s a simple enough explanation: They’re cute. 
Cupcakes, she said, are bite-sized, dainty , 
easily decorated and color-coordinated.
“There’s a lot of visual aesthetics to cup-
cakes,” she said, “and young ladies are inter -
ested in small anything.”
UF resident assistant Melinda Vinson, a 
food science and nutrition senior, used cup-cake images as decorations for the second floor in Fletcher Hall, including name tags on her residents’ doors.
And, there’s more to the appeal of cup-
cakes. To many , there’s a sense of nostalgia attached to the bite-sized pastries.
“It’s about the childhood memories,” 
Stephanie said, “of when Mom used to send you to school with a box of cupcakes for your birthday.”
Sarkara Sweets is open Wednesday 
through Saturday from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. and Sunday from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Cheers to cupcakes: Sarkara Sweets adds wine to menu 
Dana Burke / Alligator
Sarkara Sweets, 201 SE Second Ave., now offers wine choices on its menu including 
local fruit wines such as Blackberry Raspberry Royale and Peach Panache.
KATE FELDMAN
Avenue Writer
Jamie Amir, a Gainesville den-
tist, recently had a patient who 
was no longer able to do his job, not because of laws or age, but because of injuries to his wrist from when he was serving in the Vietnam War. Considered only 10 percent disabled, the man receives $100 a month.
Now, Amir is doing his part to 
help those who can’t help them-selves.
Amir and the rest of his band, 
Whiplash, will be performing at Double Down Live on Friday night. 
All proceeds will go to the Dis-abled American Veterans.
“We keep 
hearing in the news about how veterans get short-changed” 
he said. “Obviously what we can donate is a drop in the bucket, but it’s good to raise awareness. We have thousands and thousands of wounded vets that are going to be dealing with this for the rest of their lives, and it’s an important thing for the American public to know about.”
Disabled American Veterans is 
a nonprofit organization that rep-resents more than 200,000 veterans and their families. According to the 2012 Transpor-
tation Network Program, Disabled American Veterans is currently us-ing donations to buy vans to trans-port the veterans. The largest of the cars that can be purchased, the 2012 Ford E350 XL Wagon, holds up to 12 passengers and would cost more than $25,000.
“It’s a good day to support Vet-erans Day and a good way to sup-port Veterans Day by coming out and head-banging,” Simon Amir said.
Primarily a Metallica tribute band, Whiplash was formed in 2008 and is now made up of guitar-ists Jamie Amir and Simon Amir, lead singer Shawn Manley, drum-mer Tobin Wagstaff and bassist Matthew Weisman. Simon and Ja-mie Amir said they both learned to play guitar using Metallica songs, starting with the easiest songs and gradually progressing.
Manley, who hosts the 4Dimen-
sional Meltdown show on Grow Radio, said song variety is vital to the band’s show.
“We have a completely new set 
list every time,” he said. “We don’t want to get old, and we don’t want our audience to get bored.”
With Whiplash rehearsals held 
in his brother’s house, Jamie Amir said that even his 13-month-old niece, Lila, has learned to play some Metallica. 
“She already knows how to 
hold a pick and what to do with it,” he said. “She’ll come up to the guitar and start strumming it.”
As for the combination of Me-
tallica and veterans, Jamie Amir said that they chose songs with ap-propriate themes.
“All of the songs on our set list 
are more relevant now than ever,” he said. “We picked songs that matter.” 
Doors open at 9 p.m. for free 
pizza, and the band begins at 10. Tickets can be purchased at tick-etweb.com or at the door for less than $10.  10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Jamie Amir, Tobin Wagstaff, Shawn Manley, Matthew Weisman and Simon Amir are performing at Dou-
ble Down Live on Friday at 10 p.m. All proceeds go to Disabled American Veterans.
Metallica tribute band’s concert to benefit disabled US Vets 
KIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer
The post reads: “When it was over, all he said was, ’This is 
our secret.’ 
“Michelle came back a little later, after I made sure to delete 
the dirty texts from her phone, and we continued with our chat 
about her ‘incredible sex’ [she had with her boyfriend], but the only difference was that this time, I knew exactly what she was talking about.“
When she finished writing, she hit post. “Dirty little secret” 
is the most “bootylicious” story on Booty Drop.
BootyDrop.com is a website where college students post 
hookup stories anonymously . 
Since its Aug. 8 launch, it has received almost 100,000 hits, 
said 20-year-old Kevin Lance, co-founder of Booty Drop and junior at the University of Maryland. 
During his freshman year, he and co-founder Matthew 
Weaver, 20, lived on the same floor at Indiana University and became good friends before Lance transferred to UMD. After Friday and Saturday nights, students from their dor -
mitory floor came back from parties and usually talked about hookups, Weaver said. 
“We wanted to put the lounge experience on the web,” said 
the junior English major at IU.
To maintain anonymity , Lance and Weaver both personally 
edit each post to ensure no last names are used.
Booty Drop wants to find the middle ground of Texts From 
Last Night and CollegeACB, Lance said.
“We know people thought CollegeACB was trash, and we 
didn’t want our website to be like that,” he said. “And Texts From Last Night was way too short for us. You can’t tell a story with such a small amount of words or characters.”
It is great to be a Florida Gator, but it is even better to be a 
Booty Dropper, Weaver said.
“If I ever did have a crazy occurrence, and I needed to tell 
someone and did not want to get judged, I would most defi-nitely use [Booty Drop],” joked Sarah Strassler, a 19-year-old chemistry sophomore.  “It’s just a way for college students to post funny things that happen to them, but anonymously, be-cause hookups can be embarrassing and not always socially acceptable to tell other people.”
The site is funny, she said. However, she can see how it 
would further the stereotype that college students just want to hook up. 
The stories are too long, said Nicole Georges, a 20-year-old 
political science junior.
“No one’s really going to sit and read all of them because 
the stories are similar,” she said. “I don’t know if I would look at [Booty Drop] every day.”
She said if it had more variety and shorter posts, the site 
would have a better chance of being successful.
“I think it’s kind of obnoxious,” said Aaron Nadeau, a 19-
year-old mechanical engineering sophomore. “I can under -
stand the appeal if that’s what you were looking to find, but if you’re just a person looking on this website, you can really be put-off by the website, which I was kind of.”
The UF portion of BootyDrop.com currently has no posts 
— yet.Site is medium between Texts from Last Night, CollegeACB click this
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
CARNIVAL FOR A CURE
Nov 18th from 12-4pm
3 & 4 bds starting @ $349
$0 to sign!
CARNIVAL Food, Games & Prizes!
Sign 4 Spring   352.379.9300
11-18-11-6-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600$99 Move In Special!352-372-7555FrederickGardens.com12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
12, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 THFREE Cable with HBOAll the amenities & FREE tanningGated, PET FRIENDLYTheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.445512-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381     11-10-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1750/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    11-15-11-20-2● Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 3 blocks to UF  
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
● 3BD/1BA House - 2046 NW 31 PL
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
11-16-11-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2
Close to UF, $570/month 2BR with 
2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098    11-18-11-15-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155012-7-11-19-2
LIVE CLOSE. PAY LESS.
PARKING GALORE. One mile to UF.Roomy 1, 2 & 3 bedrooms. W/D avail.H2O&gas incld. Cheap GRU bills.Country Village 373.2700    11-17-7-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laundry 372-3783    12-7-11-18-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.Cabana Beach Sublease 2/2
Available now to Aug 2012,
$509/mo each, Furnished W/Dcall  352-552-1757    11-23-11-14-3
$400.00 sublease avail. in a 3/3. All inclu-
sive and furnished.Bathroom is private. Females only. Available spring 2012. Contact 386.546.6315    11-16-11-5-3
sublease available now til 6/25/11. 1 bedroom 
in a 3 bedroom townhouse at the woodlands apartments w/ private bathroom and 2 walkin closets. $530 month utilites included except elec. 352-256-0096.    11-10-2-3
DISTRICT ON 62ND
1BR/1BA available now in 3BR/3BA through June 2012. $412/mo, furnished, W/D incl. Call 352-514-2942    11-16-11-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    11-23-11-18-4
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
11-16-11-10-5
LAND LIQUIDATION 20 Acres $0 Down, 
$99/mo. ONLY $12,900 Near Growing El Paso, TX Owner Financing, NO CREDIT CHECKS! Money Back Guarantee FREE Color Brochure (800)755-8953 www.sunse-tranches.com    11-10-1-5
Pre-Grand Opening Sale! Sat. November 
19th Only. 6.34 acres w/ direct lake frontage only $29,900! Brand new, never before of-fered! Gorgeous wooded setting with deep water frontage on spectacular lake. Paved rds, power, phone, much more. Unheard of prices - excellent financing. Hurry out for 1st pick! Call now (866)952-5302, x 71   11-10-1-5
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY!! 1 water-
front & 4 lake access lots, $84,400. Gated lake community near Athens, GA. Excellent schools. Financing available. Call the Bank Direct. (888)348-5119.   11-10-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 13
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 
1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
SAWMILLS from only $3997- MAKE MONEY 
& SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship. FREE Info & DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com (800)578-1363 Ext.300N    11-10-1-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifiedsCARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
11-30-11-61-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
CASH FOR CARS! Any Make, Model, or 
Year. We Pay MORE! Running or Not. Sell Your Car or Truck TODAY. Free Towing! Instant Offer: (888)420-3807    11-10-1-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      11-10-11-77-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 ●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14Legal Secretary/Receptionist. $9/hour. F/T. 
Needs to be responsible, diligent, and de-pendable. Call 352-371-4000.   11-16-11-15-14
Cleaning/Organizing person for busy family. 
Hours flexible, $12/hr. Email qualifications to; ladygatoruke@aol.com                 11-10-5-14
Gainesville Regional Utilities
is looking for a
Temporary Part-Time Energy Analyst 
Have a passion for conservation;
great one-on-one customer service skills; 
major course work in science, math,
engineering or building construction?
Apply today at www.cityofgainesville.org
AA/EOE/DFWP Employer.
11-14-11-5-14
Marketing Ass't/Telemarketer
PT position with flexible hoursFriendly, professional officeEmail resume, cover letter to:marc@sextonandschnoll.com    11-15-11-5-14
Sleep Center Superstores is seeking to hire 
motivated, friendly, dependable, intelligent people for SALES/DELIVERY position(s). Candidates must APPLY IN PERSON. No phone calls please. 4994 N.W. 39th Avenue, 32606. In Magnolia Parke.    11-15-11-5-14
SERVERS
Experienced & friendly. Weekends & eve-
nings. Be off for the holidays. Apply in person 2 - 5pm NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St.    11-16-11-5-14
A Better Career With Melton Great Equipment 
& Benefits 2 Mos. CDL Class A Driving Exp (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com    11-10-1-14
Driver - Build Your Own Hometime! Part-
time, Full-time, Express & Casual lanes! Daily or Weekly Pay. Modern equipment! CDL-A, 3 months recent experience re-quired. (800)414-9569. www.driveknight.com    11-10-1-14
Drivers: Run GA, AL, MS, TN & FL HOME 
WEEKENDS, Earn Up to 39¢/mi, 1 yr OTR Flatbed exp. Call: SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC (800)572-5489 ext. 227   11-10-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Tutoring all subjects and all levels. $20/
hour. Available immediately in subjects from Algebra to Differential Equations to Physics, Statistics, or Chemistry. Call 863-430-5472.11-10-5-15
ALLIED HEALTH career training-Attend col-
lege 100% online. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.com    11-10-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com    11-10-1-15
EARN COLLEGE DEGREE ONLINE. 
*Medical, *Business, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (877)206-5165 www.CenturaOnline.com    11-10-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for hands 
on Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA ap-proved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769    11-10-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.    11-22-30-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and 
Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi-vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
Ride Horses for a Great Workout and Even 
Greater Fun! There's a ladies only exer-cise class now forming. We'll ride twice a week through a state forest for two hours. Interested? There are limited openings, con-tact kathy at 352-443-0273 or emailhorseclassbykathy@gmail.com.   11-15-11-4-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Best religion? NO religion!
Get to know your Creator.See why the Bible is uniqueTry You Tube: ChuckMissler What is Truth?     11-18-11-8-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  M-R, November 14 – 17  from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions on M & W, Math on T & R.  Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.    11-14-4-20
Advertising that Works. Put your ad in Over 
100 Papers throughout Florida for one LOW RATE! Call (866)742-1373 or visit: www.florida-classifieds.com    11-10-1-20
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
More Stories Online
Visit alligatorSports.org for more about Florida’s cross country teams 
and their battle at the NCAA South Regional on Saturday, as well as a story about the volleyball team’s impending weekend road trip. Gators freshman guard Carlie 
Needles tore a ligament in her knee during practice and will miss the 2011-12 season. See story at alligatorSports.org.
GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Like every other unit on the 
team, the Gators’ secondary 
has been through some tough times. 
Against Tennessee and quar -
terback Tyler Bray, Florida gave up 288 yards through the air. 
Against LSU and talented 
wideout Rueben Randle, UF al-lowed 215 passing yards on just 14 attempts. 
And Saturday against Van-
derbilt and quarterback Jordan Rodgers, the Gators’ secondary yielded 220 yards in the second half alone. 
But each of those tests pales 
in comparison to what Florida (5-4, 3-4 Southeastern Confer -
ence) will face Saturday at noon when it travels to Columbia, S.C., to take on No. 15 South Carolina (7-2, 5-2 SEC) and su-perstar wideout Alshon Jeffery. 
“He’s a bigger guy, so this 
week we have to really play into the guy and not go for the ball,” sophomore cornerback Jaylen Watkins said. 
“We have to get it out of his 
hands.”
A second-team All-American 
last year, Jeffery hauled in 88 passes for 1,517 yards and nine touchdowns.
So far this season he has just 
36 catches for 487 yards and five scores, but the numbers aren’t truly indicative of his perfor -
mance. 
“Even though he doesn’t 
have maybe the same                              We here at the alligator -
Sports Brand Picks Col-umn like to run a clean 
program. We don’t get caught up in any off-the-field exploitations, recruiting violations or even legal trouble (for the most part).
So when all hell broke loose in 
the college athletics realm this week, we were taken aback. 
Penn State’s issues? What else is 
there to say that hasn’t already been said? We are so morally outraged by what has happened in Happy Valley that we won’t touch it with a 10-foot pole. We’re just happy the board of trustees came to its senses late Wednesday night.
So much attention has been put 
on the Nittany Lions this week that other schools with lesser problems have been airing their dirty laundry at an opportune time. 
UCF’s athletic director and wide 
receivers coach resigned amid re-cruiting allegations while basketball coach Donnie Jones was suspended because he “failed to maintain a cul-ture of compliance.” We think it’s cute that UCF is trying to be like the other big schools in the state of Flor -
ida, but it needs to step its game up when it comes to NCAA violations.
Oregon released documents relat-
ed to the Willie Lyles scandal on the same day in hopes that it wouldn’t garner too much attention. 
Now that’s smart business.With so many negative things go-
ing on, we let two columnists who have nothing to hide debate one of this weekend’s marquee matchups.
Stanford (-3.5) will continue 
to show why it is the class of the NCAA because…
Let’s be real here: Stanford can do 
no wrong. The Cardinal is clean as a whistle and touts one of the pre-mier athletic programs in the nation, Picks
Column
SITE: Williams-Brice Stadium, 
Columbia, S.C., (cap. 80,250)
KICKOFF:  12 p.m., Saturday 
TV/RADIO:  CBS / 850 AM
see PICKs, P age 20
Dana Burke / alligator s taff
Florida cornerback Jaylen Watkins (14) said the Gators’ secondary has to concentrate on taking the 
ball out of South Carolina receiver Alshon Jeffery’s hands this Saturday. 
Secondary facing biggest test of season Saturday
� COACH BECKY BURLEIGH SAID 
MISTAKES ON DEFENSE HAVE BEEN DIFFICULT TO OVERCOME. 
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
To the blind eye, the Gators have 
nothing to worry about as they prepare 
for the first round of the NCAA Tourna-ment.
Coach Becky Burleigh thinks other -
wise.
No. 2 seed Florida (16-7) is looking 
to correct recent defensive problems as it prepares to take on Florida Gulf Coast (14-4-2) in the opening round on Satur -
day night at 7 at home in Pressly Sta-dium.UF won the first game between the 
two teams, 5-0, on Sept. 11, but Burleigh said the victory and higher seeding does not mean anything come Saturday, add-ing Florida needs to keep improving.
“What seed we are doesn’t help 
us beat Florida Gulf Coast,” Burleigh said.
In the first matchup, 
the Gators held the Ea-
gles to just three shots on goal. 
However, since that 
suffocating perfor -
mance, Burleigh has 
found flaws in her team’s defense that need to be addressed.
Florida advanced to the finals of the 
Southeastern Conference Tournament last week in Orange Beach, Ala., with wins against Georgia and Alabama. 
But UF came up short in the final, 
a 3-2 loss to Auburn, because of costly goals that resulted from what Burleigh described as a poor “defensive pres-ence.”
The Gators’ failure to clear loose balls 
out of the box led to Tigers midfielder Katy Frierson’s two goals. One was cour -
tesy of a free kick played into the box and the other scored on a deflection off a UF defender.
Burleigh said Florida could avoid let-
downs such as these by taking a more aggressive approach to the ball on de-fense.
The team keeps track of how many 
first and second balls it gets to. 
The first balls are loose balls that are Defense UF’s focus heading into tourney
Burleigh
FOOTBaLL
“We have to get it out of 
(Jeffery’s) hands.”
Jaylen Watkins
UF sophomore cornerback
see sOCCeR, P age 16see FOOTBaLL, P age 16
Quotable
“I’ve been bullet-free. It’s been a good run.” 
Matt Patchan  
UF offensive lineman 
(on his recent string without an injury)
usually in the air, such as a 
free kick or corner kick. 
The second ball goes to 
whoever controls it off of the touch that ensues.
The Gators’ lost the first-
ball battle against the Tigers by four after controlling twice as many as both the Bulldogs and the Crimson Tide in the first two rounds.
Junior center back Kat 
Williamson said being more physical when the opposi-tion is on the attack could help prevent loose balls from becoming something worse for Florida.
“It’s what you are willing 
to do for your teammates,” Williamson said. 
“Are you willing to slide 
tackle somebody when you may not win it? Are you will-ing to go in hard to a chal-lenge when you might get hurt?”
In their 4-2-3-1 system, 
the Gators rely on everyone from the keeper to the high-est forward. 
Junior midfielder Erika 
Tymrak said players who aren’t on the back line can do plenty to stop balls from get-ting into the defensive third in the first place.
“We have to stay compact 
and we have to screen balls,” Tymrak said. 
“If they don’t get past us, 
they aren’t going to get to the goal and score.”16, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
CB Jeremy Brown (knee) 
LB Lerentee McCray (arm/shoulder)
RT Chaz Green (ankle)LB Jelani Jenkins (concussion)
RB Mike Gillislee (undisclosed)
K Caleb Sturgis (leg)RB Chris Rainey (ankle)QB John Brantley (ankle)LG Dan Wenger (undisclosed)
S Devonte Holloman (concussion)
QB Connor Shaw (concussion)
LB Antonio Spur (neck)S D.J. Swearinger (foot)OUT
DOUBTFUL
PROBABLEQUESTIONABLE
PROBABLEGators hold No. 11 national ranking 
in pass defense despite struggles
production, a lot of the times it’s 
because people are trying to take care of him,” UF defensive coor -
dinator Dan Quinn said. “That’s a real credit to him.”
Florida’s secondary is a 
young, inexperienced unit that has thrived against the dregs of the schedule to establish the No. 11 ranking nationally in pass de-fense. 
But the Gators have struggled 
to generate turnovers on the back end, as they are tied for last in the SEC with just five interceptions. 
Watkins said those struggles 
are a product of defenders not getting their heads turned around in coverage.
“We’re in great position every 
time, but we seem to lose most of the battles,” Watkins said. 
In an attempt to correct the is-
sue, Watkins said he and some of the other defensive backs have started to stay after practice to get extra repetitions. 
Watkins specifically cited the 
work he has done with fresh-man quarterback Tyler Murphy and sophomore wide receiver Stephen Alli, who all stay after practice nearly every day so Wat-kins can work on getting his head around in coverage and making a play on the ball. 
Watkins said the tangles with 
Alli, who stands 6-foot-6, have helped him prepare for Satur -
day’s matchup with the 6-foot-4 Jeffery. 
The ability to combat size is 
part of the reason Watkins, 6-foot, has been playing more snaps across from 6-foot freshman Mar -
cus Roberson 
than 5-foot-9 sophomore Cody Riggs has in recent weeks.
Riggs started 
the Gators’ first seven games, but has since 
been replaced by Watkins.
Speed and length are two of 
the things Quinn said he looks for in a cornerback, and Watkins fits the bill. 
After recording just four tack-
les and two passes broken up in four games during October, he registered five tackles and two pass breakups against Vander -
bilt. 
“I was real pleased to see him 
do that,” Quinn said. “We’re encouraged by him 
and each week it’s technique, getting stronger and I think he’s developed. 
“And we want to see him get-
ting some more playing time, too.”
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@
alligator.org.
FOOTBALL , from page 15
SOCCER , from page 15Williamson: Florida 
must be more physical on opponents’ attack
Watkins
“Are you willing to 
slide tackle somebody 
when you may not win 
it? Are you willing to go 
in hard to a challenge 
when you might get 
hurt?”
Kat Williamson
UF center backtrailing only UCLA all time for national championships — 
and that’s without any titles in football.
Well, the Cardinal are looking to add that first NCAA 
football title, and it won’t let Oregon sully its chances. Andrew Luck is going to keep hope alive, because when Stanford raises that crystal ball in January, it’s one title that has no chance of being stripped in the future. 
— TOM GREEN
Oregon (+3.5) will violate Stanford like an NCAA 
rule because …
If you’re not cheating, you’re not trying. And no-
body looks better cheating than the Ducks. If the Oregon football team decided to rob a bank, they would do so wrapped in camouflage Dry Fit, yellow-and-green cus-tomized Jordans and a special ski mask designed to look like Daffy Duck.
Expect LaMichael James, Darren Thomas and Co. to 
bring their mischievous-yet-super-swagged-out attitude to Stanford on Saturday night. The Ducks will execute a caper, sneaking out with the Cardinal’s national champi-onship aspirations.
— TYLER JETT
Now, on to the picks!
In first place with a 49-30 record is The Associated Press’ 
Mark “We’ll always have Twitter” Long, whose longtime 
press row buddy has been tragically taken from him by the dark evil of the Worldwide Leader. Cue Eric Carmen’s “All by Myself.”
In second with a 44-35 record is alligatorSprots writer 
Greg “Mediocre for Matt!” Luca, who is the only known member of the Miami Dolphins fan base not devastated by the Fins’ lack of ability to follow through on the “Suck for Luck” mantra. Enjoy watching absolutely nothing change, Cool Hand.
Alone in third with a 42-37 record is alligatorSports as-
sistant editor Matt “I like your spandex” Watts, whose af-finity for UF volleyball player Kristy Jaeckel has blossomed throughout the season to an all-time high as of late. Guess who’s not allowed within 100 yards of the next volleyball game?
Leading a logjam at fourth with a 40-39 record is ESPN’s 
Mike “You kids and your technology” DiRocco, who, for the life of him, couldn’t figure out how to access his voicemail on his brand new iPhone. The part that really threw Mike off was the lack of a rotary dial and a cord on the phone.
Tied with Mike is alligatorSports writer Tyler “Full of 
Pride” Jett, who was so inspired by the latest season of “The Real World” that he made a bold and relieving life statement on his Facebook page Tuesday night. Somebody’s a little late to the parade.
Also in fourth is FightinGators.com’s Cody “Salute Your 
Shorts” Jones, who was singing the theme song to the 1990s Nickelodeon hit show last week. Cody will always hold Camp Anawanna in his heart, because when he thinks about it, it makes him want to fart.
Holding steady in seventh with a 39-40 record is Inside-
TheGators.com’s Kyle “Those whores are freezing” Maistri, who not only cares about the 99 percent, but is also worried about the rights of the 1 percent (of scantily clad cheerlead-ers/dancers who were in attendance for the Alabama-LSU game last weekend.)
And in dead-ass last place with a piss poor 36-43 record 
is alligatorSports editor Tom “Tell me more, Mr. Patchan” Green, who was so enthralled by getting to stare at Florida’s right tackle for five minutes on Wednesday that he felt the need to text the masses about the experience. You know Tom, always bullet-free and full of man crushes.20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
PICKS , from page 15
  ML  GL  MW  MD
Florida at South Carolina (Pick) SCAR  SCAR  SCAR  SCAR
Virginia Tech at Georgia Tech (+1) GT  VT  VT  GT
Michigan State at Iowa (+3)  MSU  IOWA  MSU  MSU
Nebraska at Penn State (+3) PSU  NEB  NEB  NEB
Auburn (+13) at Georgia  AU  UGA  AU  AU
Miami (+9) at Florida State  UM  FSU  UM  UM
Oregon (+3.5) at Stanford  STAN  ORE  STAN  STAN
TCU (+15.5) at Boise State  BSU  TCU  TCU  BSU 
      
  TJ  CJ  KM  TG
Florida at South Carolina (Pick) SCAR  SCAR  SCAR  SCAR
Virginia Tech at Georgia Tech (+1) VT  GT  GT  VT
Michigan State at Iowa (+3)  MSU  MSU  MSU  IOWA
Nebraska at Penn State (+3) NEB  NEB  PSU  NEB
Auburn (+13) at Georgia  AU  AU  AU  AU
Miami (+9) at Florida State  FSU  UM  UM  FSU
Oregon (+3.5) at Stanford  ORE  ORE  STAN  STAN
TCU (+15.5) at Boise State  BSU  BSU  BSU  TCU