VOLUME 106 ISSUE 21 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaQuarterback John 
Brantley is working 
with Charlie Weis to 
script the offense’s 
ﬁ  rst few drives. 
See Story, Page 15
What Faith Demands
One UF student sacfriﬁ  ced his life to comfort 
his friend, pages 8-9. Bomb hoax on RTS bus causes road block Monday night
See the story online at alligator.org.
Book Lover’s Cafe switches to completely vegan menu
It will be the ﬁ  rst all-vegan restaurant in Gainesville, pg 4. 
88/70
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  13
SPORTS 15� WOMEN COULD BE LEFT WITH INADEQUATE CONTRACEPTION.
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
 Alligator Contributing Writer
  Eight oral contraceptives have been 
voluntarily recalled because of a pack-
aging error. 
  Alabama-based Qualitest Pharma-
ceuticals issued the nationwide recall,  effective immediately . Products recalled include Cyclafem 7/7/7, Cyclafem 1/35, Emoquette, Gildess FE 1.5/30, Gildess FE 1/20, Orsythia, Previfem and Tri-Previfem, according to the Food and Drug Administration.
  The packaging defects pose no imme-
diate health risks but can leave women with inadequate contraception. 
  As a result of the error, weekly tablet 
orientations were reversed, and the ex-piration dates were not visible, accord-ing to the FDA. 
  The recall involves 1.4 million pack-
ages that have been distributed since last year, a spokesman for the company told CNN. 
  The Alachua County Health Depart-
ment and the Student Health Care Cen-ter are aware of the recall.   The health de-partment clinic has never carried pills by Qualitest Pharmaceuticals, according to Elly Devost, the ACHD clinic manager.
  The SHCC pharmacy pulled hun-
dreds of packs off its shelves, but it doesn’t believe any were packaged in-correctly, said Laura Tipton, the phar-macy manager. The pharmacy records lot numbers and expiration dates for each prescription dispensed. 
  However, the pharmacy is willing to 
return any recalled item. Students can come in, and the pharmacy “will give them a different manufactured prod-uct,” Tipton said. 
  Qualitest is urging consumers ex-
posed to affected packaging to begin us-ing a non-hormonal form of contracep-tion immediately . 
  Go to www.qualitestrx.com/pdf/
OCRecall.pdf for a complete list of the recalled contraceptives.  Packaging error leads to 
recall of birth-control pills  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
 
  Floridians are well acquainted with their state’s scalier resi-
dents. They have shared property lines with alligators and tree frogs, swept lizards out of their houses and gone to battle with a snake or two.
  And like many other Floridians, an increasing number of 
these critters is not native to the state.
  In fact, Florida has now been identiﬁ  ed as the area with the 
largest invasive reptile and amphibian problem in the world, according to a recent study led by a UF researcher.
  The results of the two-decade-long study, published in the 
September edition of the scientiﬁ  c journal Zootaxa, indicate that 137 non-native species of reptiles and amphibians have been introduced to Florida since 1863. 
  For example, today, there are 43 non-native species of liz-
ards in Florida and only 16 native, according to the study . 
  The environmental impact of these creatures — such as the 
Burmese python, brown anole lizard and green iguana — can be difﬁ  cult to quantify, said Rob Robins, a collection manager at the Florida Museum of Natural History familiar with the study.
  Exotic species compete with the native populations for food 
and habitat, and sometimes the foreigners are victorious. 
  The UF study seeks to give researchers a strong basis from 
which to examine the extent of such an impact by identifying Frogs, snakes 
invade Florida 
 courtesy to the Alligator   
  UF researcher Kenneth Krysko removes a Burmese python from the underbrush near a South Florida canal. Krysko 
led a study published online in Zootaxa on Thursday documenting 137 introductions of non-native amphibians and reptiles to the state. Burmese pythons are known to consume birds, alligators and many protected species.  
SEE INVASIVE, PAGE 5
  MORGAN WATKINS
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  UF student David Baden had what may 
have been the best seats he’ll ever get for a Gators football game.
  Unfortunately , he only got to see the ﬁ  rst 
half of the ﬁ  rst quarter. 
  Baden, a 20-year-old mechanical engineer-
ing junior, was ejected from his second-row, 30-yard line seats at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Saturday for standing on the bleachers along with seven or eight other  students. 
  Although the law enforcement ofﬁ  cer who 
kicked them out told them an usher had warned them, Baden said he hadn’t received any such warning.  
  “If I would’ve been told, I would have eas-
ily gotten down. I just thought that’s what fans do,” he said, of standing on bleachers. “It’s what I’ve done every single game of my college career so far, and I’ve never ever heard that it wasn’t allowed.”
  Baden was one of 23 people ejected from the 
game for standing on bleachers, said Maj. Brad Barber, public information ofﬁ  cer for the Uni-versity Police Department.
  That’s the same number of people ejected for standing on the bleachers at the football game against the University of Alabama at Bir-mingham on Sept. 10. Six people were ejected for the same offense at the game against Florida Atlantic University on Sept. 3. 
  There were ﬁ  ve arrests and 89 total ejections 
at the game this weekend. 
  Eighteen people were ejected for alcohol 
possession, but only one person was arrested, Barber said. Another fan was arrested for un-derage possession of alcohol.   Twenty-three people were ejected for disorderly conduct, and 14 people were kicked out for intoxication.   
  UPD Lt. Mitchal Welsh was in charge of the 
booking room at Gate 13 of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Saturday. He said the ejection num-bers were higher than the previous two games of the season most likely because it was a sold-out game. 
  “The fans are just more into it, and they’re 
rowdier than they are for a non-SEC game,” Welsh said.  About 89 ejected from game
“The fans are just more into it, and 
they’re rowdier than they are for a non-
SEC game.” 
Mitchal Welsh
UPD LieuteantNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 21 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Justin Hayes,
  Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Adrianna Paidas, Lily Parkinson, 
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,  
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber
, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerSATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. what’s happening
Pearl Jam “20” Free, Exclusive 
Listening Party
Tuesday, 9 to 11:30 p.m.Double Down Live (201 SW Second Ave., formerly Common Grounds)Come and get an early listen to the soundtrack for Pearl Jam “20,” the in-depth documenta-ry directed by Cameron Crowe and released by Columbia Records. Come by Double Down Live to jam out to the exclusive two-disc set and pick up some free Pearl Jam swag. There’s no cover charge; 18+ for admission and 21+ for $2 drink specials.
Memorial Service for UF 
Professor Gerald KishWednesday, 11 a.m.North Florida Evaluation and Treatment CenterA memorial service will be held for Gerald Kish, who passed away earlier this month. A second service, hosted by the Warrington College of Business Administration, will be held 
Oct. 2 at Library East.
Minority Business Society 
General Body Meeting
Wednesday, 6 p.m.Come to the MBS general body meeting for the Capital One presentation on case interview-ing. This is a great opportunity to learn about the skills that em-ployers are looking for. There will be refreshments. For more information, follow the orga-nization on Twitter @ufmbs or check out the Facebook group “Minority Business Society.”  
Peace Corps General
 Information Session
 Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.
HUB International Center  that allows the crowd to have input on contestants’ scores.  The act with the most donations in each category will automati-cally get two points added to their final scores. All donations go towards PADRES Contra El Cancer (Parents Against 
Cancer). 
Indian Student Association: 
Teach Me How to Garba
Wednesday and Thursday , 7 to 9 p.m.Reitz Union ColonnadeEvent to learn how to do garba, which is a traditional Indian 
dance.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Come find out more about 
Peace Corps and speak to re-turned and currently serving volunteers about their experi-
ences.
Women’s Student Association 
General Body Meeting and Recruitment
Wednesday, 7 p.m.CSE Building Room 220Want to get involved on campus, join a community of women leaders and gain valu-able leadership experience? Come to the Women’s Student Association’s second general body meeting of the year. WSA has also just extended the application deadline to Wednesday for applications for more than 30 leadership positions. Applications can be found online at ufwsa.blog-spot.com. 
Hispanic Heritage Month 
Talent ShowWednesday, 7 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomFrom solo performers and duets to groups and whole organizations, this year’s event includes all talented Gators. Performers will show audiences what they’ve got in singing, dancing and freestyle categories. HHM staff will have giveaways throughout the show featuring CDs and posters signed by 2010 HHM concert headliner Frankie Negron. This year, there is also a “Fan Favorite” portion 
THUNDER
STORMS
87/66THUNDER
STORMS
88/69THUNDER
STORMS
88/70THUNDER
STORMS
90/71THUNDER
STORMS
88/70
4, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
dining
SOPHIE COTE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Book Lover’s Cafe will soon be the first 
restaurant in Gainesville to offer a completely 
vegan menu to its customers. 
Amid the din of clinking coffee cups and 
worn-out silverware, co-owners Jason Got-tfried and Carlo Besozzi sketched out the plans for the transformation of one of Gainesville’s oldest vegetarian eateries into a full-service vegan cafe. 
Gottfried, 32, of Nashville, Tenn., recog-
nized the interest and need to provide a more complete dining experience to the growing vegan community in Gainesville. 
Through the reinvention of the Book Lov-
er’s Cafe menu, he and Besozzi hope to meet that goal. Unlike many other restaurants in Gainesvillle that offer both vegan and vegetar -
ian options, Book Lover’s Cafe will have an entirely vegan menu.
V eganism is the practice of avoiding the 
consumption or use of any products derived from animals, including foods containing dairy and eggs.
Book Lover’s Cafe, located at 505 NW 13th 
St. in the same building as Books Inc., has been serving vegetarian cuisine to area residents since 1979. Before moving to Gainesville to assume 
ownership of Book Lover’s Cafe, Gottfried 
served as general manager of The Wild Cow, a 
vegetarian restaurant in east Nashville, Tenn. Both he and Besozzi practice a vegan lifestyle.
“After leaving Nashville and working here 
for a year, I was blown away by how many vegans and vegetarians I met,” Gottfried said. “The changes we’re hoping to make will help bring the restaurant into this decade and cater to people’s desire for fresh food without the need for microwaves.”
In recent years, adopting a vegan lifestyle 
has gained popularity among students and other members of the Gainesville community, particularly creating awareness for animal welfare and human rights reform. 
“One of our main goals is to become more 
community-oriented,” Gottfried said. “I hope that the vegan community will enjoy and sup-port us and help us transform this place into something fantastic.”
Vegetarian cafe goes completely vegan with new menu
“I hope that the vegan            
community will enjoy and support 
us and help us transform this place 
into something fantastic.”
Jason Gottfried
co-owner of Book Lover’s Cafeand verifying each non-native species. 
“The more information you have about non-indigenous 
reptiles and amphibians, the better idea you have about their 
range, distribution and potential impact,” Robins said. 
Until about 1940, the majority of non-native species ar -
rived in Florida via cargo ships or planes from the West Indies or Cuba. More recently, the study indicates, the pet trade, or importing animals to be sold as pets, has been responsible for about 84 percent of all non-native introductions.
While owning an exotic reptile or amphibian is OK, Florida 
law forbids the release of a non-native species into the wild without a permit.
Robins said this law, however, is fairly unenforceable be-
cause a Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission officers must actually witness the release of the animal in order to charge someone with the crime. To date, no one has been prosecuted for releasing a non-indigenous animal.
One animal importer in particular, Strictly Reptiles Inc. of 
Hollywood, Fla., was responsible for about 25 percent of the non-native species in Florida. 
Ray Van Nostrand, a co-owner of the business, said Strictly 
Reptiles imports and distributes reptiles to customers all over the United States, including pet owners, researchers and zoos.
Van Nostrand questioned whether pet owners’ release of ex-
otic animals was really a problem. 
“Researchers don’t really know the environmental impact,” 
he said. “Out of all the years I’ve been doing this, I’ve never had a call that said, ‘There’s an exotic frog in my yard, and it’s a problem.’” TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Brett LeBlanc/Alligator
Storms Brewing
A car drives through the downpour Monday evening on Southwest 12th Street. The weather is expected to 
be stormy for the rest of the week, according to weather.com.  
INVASIVE , from page 1Invasive species arrived 
via cargo ships, pet tradeReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToiling Over Tuition
In tough economy, 
are hikes unjustified?
Is the Gainesville chapter of Students for a Democratic Society 
really concerned about tuition hikes, or is it just trying to find something to protest? 
Last week, SDS organized a protest, marched into Tigert Hall 
and demanded an end to annual tuition hikes. 
No one likes to see tuition rates increase, but in tough eco-
nomic times, the belts of everyone have to tighten. 
With annual tuition hikes, surely UF has the one of the high-
est tuition rates in the country , right? 
Actually, UF is ranked 11th in Forbes’ Top 20 Best Value 
Colleges in the nation. If the college raises tuition at the rate of 15 percent per year, it will not reach the national average until 2019. 
Everyone is on a tight budget, and no one likes paying more, 
but eventually wishes and hopes must succumb to reality. 
You do not have a right to be here. You voluntarily chose to 
come to UF, and to demand that administrators give up their salaries to support your desire to pay less is a little childish. 
We ask that you do not waste your upcoming opportunity to 
present a strong defense of your position when you meet with the university administration. 
This is not to say that no one in SDS is really concerned about 
paying more, but storming into Tigert Hall and screaming de-mands to speak with President Bernie Machen makes it seem like the members are pining for a return to the 1960s. 
It is a lot easier to convince someone on your side of the argu-
ment through calm, rational debate rather than screaming and holding picket signs. You have the right to protest or assemble, but there are better strategies. 
Also, in the very hall where you were protesting, graduate 
students were trying to conduct important presentations but were disturbed by your yelling. 
Is that really in the best interest of the students? So for the activists in SDS, this is a call to action. Defend your 
“right” to pay less for your education. Why are tuition hikes for a school with below-average tuition rates the end of the world? 
Should UF not be allowed to determine its own standards for 
entry and payment? 
Students seem to be getting a pretty good deal. It is not like 
there are not opportunities out there that might ease your finan-cial burden. 
The editorial board of the Alligator asks that members of the 
SDS and other groups on campus who feel angered by the tu-ition hikes to send letters to the editor defending their position. 
As you may notice from the letter by a graduate student a 
few weeks ago, there is not a collective distaste for these tuition hikes. 
The Alligator has endorsed the painful but necessary tuition 
hikes before — but the editorial board has limits, too. When Ma-chen wanted a one-time 30 percent increase, the Alligator object-ed and suggested locking in rates from freshman year through graduation.
We would greatly appreciate a response to this issue. 
Today’s question: Would you vote for a woman for 
president?
79 TOTAL VOTES62% YES
38% NOMonday’s question: Will you finish your undergraduate degree in four years or fewer?
Politics needs better female role models
I’d like to issue an apology on behalf of all women. Sorry, 
ladies, but I think a good percentage of you will agree with me anyway.
More specifically , this is on behalf of women who pay 
attention to politics.
It seems to me that women politicians are still viewed as 
a joke, especially between the 2008 election season and the current campaign.
And of course they are seen that way.People are usually given attention if they are different or 
controversial. Everyone likes attention, right? So the natural response should be to keep doing whatever earned that at-tention in the first place.
Sarah Palin took that to mean being more rogue, more 
every-woman and more detached from the news media. She basically became a complete caricature of herself. 
Voters like things to be very simple.Straightforward politics are preferred in this country. 
People don’t want any of those “conditional” mumbo-jum-bo arguments where decisions depend on circumstances. Campaign seasons are for declarative statements that ap-pease people in the moment. That angle is perfect for politi-cians who are trying to earn votes rather than keep the num-bers they already have.
In my view, Palin was never a valid candidate.“But Sami,” I hear you asking, “Don’t ladies automati-
cally vote for other ladies?”
Not when they think that lady is crazy.Did you ever ask yourself why Palin was selected to be 
John McCain’s running mate?
Essentially , the only people who would vote for McCain 
also look exactly like him. The Republican Party ticket need-ed spice and pizazz — and controversy. Palin brought atten-tion to their campaign with her gender and her opinions.
I’m definitely not saying she exploited herself to earn 
votes. The fact that she is a female was enough “controver -
sy” to catch the media’s attention. It was after the fact that we got to see the other levels of her personality.
There was a brief panic in America with the beginning of 
the 2012 presidential race: Who was going to be America’s sweetheart now that Palin wasn’t running?
Thankfully, Michele Bach-
mann arrived on the scene.
Bachmann is just another ex-
ample of how important extremes are to this nation.
If someone isn’t making a 
scene, they’re not going to earn press. And I think we all know 
Bachmann likes a scene.
Women in politics will not be listened to unless they are 
causing a ruckus  — that is a little absurd to me.
Are we not past this yet? Can we just have female politi-
cians, no questions asked? Instead, we are presented only with cartoons.
Is that what we want our children to be exposed to? It’s 
not fair that the only highly visible role models available are basically the worst ones.
So, here’s my apology:Sorry. I’m sorry for the ladies and to the ladies.I’m sorry that, as far as presidential candidates go, there 
aren’t often good examples to look up to. I wish that the loudest voices weren’t the only ones heard.
I’d also like to apologize to anyone who finds this whole 
thing a little one-sided. 
As you can see, I lean a certain way politically . I don’t 
even think that matters in this case, though. Even if I be-longed to the Republican Party , I would still feel mildly ashamed of the females “representing” me. This goes be-yond whether or not I agree with their politics because that answer is easy: I am just legitimately saddened that two of the most talked-about females in these recent elections are poor role models.
Maybe this is all to inspire the next generation to be better 
than using gender as a springboard for politics. It shouldn’t matter what your gender is if your policies are a little nutty.
Apology accepted?Sami Main is a journalism junior at UF. Her column appears 
on T uesdays. 
Sami Main
letters@alligator.org TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 7
  Recently, a friend of mine, seemingly distraught, com-
plained that Jon Stewart’s frequent summer vacations left him repeatedly bereft of meaningful political insight 
and general news information. I berated him for neglecting the legitimate media. 
  I explained that Stewart is a comedian, not a news anchor 
— a wit, not a pundit. However, I realized that perhaps I had blamed the wrong person. 
  Perhaps my friend was not at fault for relying on Stewart, 
but rather Stewart was for failing to care for those who had become dependent on him. It seemed that in watching Stewart week after week, my friend and those like him had gone from simply watching him on TV to looking up to him. He had be-come much more than the host of a late-night talk show.
  As students, this phenomenon should shock none of us. Af-
ter semesters of exposure to a teacher, few among us can say that we have not come to rely on that person’s regular presence in our lives — and not just for their knowledge. Since we’ve become attached to these teachers, a week without their wis-dom is noticeable. But should we put such a (perhaps parental) burden on these people, particularly Stewart? At what point do those that we look up to have to look back down at us? Does Stewart have some sort of moral and professional obligation to the people who watch him to provide a service he did not initially set out to provide?  The Pew Research Center for 
the People and the Press con-ducted a poll in 2007 that asked Americans to name the journal-ist they most admired. Stewart 
came in fourth, tied with news anchors Brian Williams and Tom Brokaw of NBC, Dan Rather of CBS and Anderson Coo-per of CNN. A 2009 poll by Time asked the question, “Now that Walter Cronkite has passed on, who is America’s most trusted newscaster?” Stewart, with 44 percent of the vote, beat out Bri-an Williams (29 percent), Charlie Gibson (19 percent) and Katie Couric (9 percent). Because my college-educated friend and so many Americans rely on Stewart for the news and trust him to provide it, perhaps he has a moral obligation to take up the reign as a consistent provider of reliable news. That is not to say that he needs to cease being a comedian, as the use of his wit is undoubtedly part of his appeal. Rather, he needs to make sure to deliver his act with consistency and accuracy . I recognize that the station that broadcasts “The Daily Show” is Comedy Central, not CNN. I simultaneously recognize, however, that with power and inﬂ  uence come responsibility.
  Because Americans look up and listen to Stewart to such a 
degree, he has increased responsibility that makes the depen-dent viewer less to blame.
  It is important to note that Stewart makes it clear that he does not deliver accurate, unbiased news. It may be the case that this warning label is insufﬁ  cient. A disclaimer cannot alle-viate Stewart from taking the responsibility for the inﬂ  uence he wields. Since he ﬁ  lls a certain role in the minds of his viewers, he needs to live up to that image.
  As Stewart often points out, legitimate news stations — es-
pecially Fox News — often report inaccurately. A discussion of general news biases is important but not relevant here. I do not condone the somewhat extreme predispositions of Fox News or MSNBC, but neither leaves room for the same level of cogni-tive dissonance that “The Daily Show” does; they deliver what is expected of them, consistently.
  Yes, my friend needs to subscribe to The New York Times 
and The Wall Street Journal. He and many others need to di-versify the sources from which they draw information and craft opinions. Simultaneously, the people who hold the ears and minds of the masses and who help to inﬂ  uence views owe it to them to “look back down” and fulﬁ  ll expected roles. High school teachers ought to be nurturing, and Stewart ought to deliver credible, consistent reporting. Stewart ought to mix fact and ﬁ  ction very cautiously to avoid misinforming those who look up to him and take his word as truth. (And, in his absenc-es, Stewart should hire a replacement host.)
  Aaron Applbaum is a sophomore and columnist for The Daily 
Princetonian at Princeton University. 
Jon Stewart has responsibility as reporter, not just comedianUWire
Andrea Keating
UWire   In many ways, I feel like saying, “ha ha” 
to the United States Postal Service. Take that! Take that for bringing me all those 
bills in my mail. I say this because the Postal Service can’t even pay its own bills.
  Personally, I never knew the post ofﬁ  ce 
fell under a special umbrella of the U.S. gov-ernment — “independent agency.” So what’s that in English? It needs to make a “proﬁ  t” in order to survive, no different than any other business; and by the end of September, it’s going to be hard up for cash.
  A recent article published in Gizmodo 
mentioned the Postal Service and its dilem-ma. It summarized this as, “Not only are they going under, but they’re going under fast — minus the life vest.”
  According to the article, “The postmaster 
general, Patrick Donahoe, might get rid of Sat-urday mail delivery, lay off 120,000 workers and close up to 3,700 post ofﬁ  ces — all in an effort to lessen the post ofﬁ  ce’s deﬁ  cit, which will be $9.2 billion this ﬁ  scal year. Why? Well, labor costs too much and revenue is down.”
  Congress is having problems balancing its 
checkbook. We all know that. However, the post ofﬁ  ce will be last in line for a swanky bailout. The Postal Service is about to de-fault on a payment of $5.5 billion. Personally, if that were my bar tab, I’d be long gone by now.
      Personally, I like the post ofﬁ  ce, although 
it may not seem so obvious. I do. My mail always reaches the correct destination, I’m rarely overcharged, and it’s adamant about delivering those dreaded bill envelopes. My question here is really about after effects and repercussions. If the post ofﬁ  ce becomes a thing of the past, what will be the “proxy?”
  According to 
The New York 
Times, “Mail volume has plummeted with the rise of email, electronic bill-paying and a Web that makes everything from fashion cat-alogs to news instantly available. The system will handle an estimated 167 billion pieces of mail this ﬁ  scal year, down 22 percent from ﬁ  ve years ago.”
  And so the debate goes: The Internet killed 
pen pals. Pen pals became email junkies, and it all became convenient.
  The Postal Service suffered greatly from 
this “cyber Santa of opportuneness” and the after effect: The whole shebang simply cost us more.  Rather than playing the blame game, I 
ask: Where is the solution? Unbeknownst to some, the Postal Service is actually a neces-sity. By how much, I’m not sure.
  Think about your grandparents. What if 
they aren’t keyboard savvy? Perhaps they don’t have access to a computer, never mind if they know how to use one. How will those people function? And has anybody given thought to our troops overseas? They rely heavily on the Postal Service as a gateway to home.
    So yes, I guess we still need the Postal Ser-
vice, perhaps in a quota that we can afford. The kind of quota that doesn’t kill the mes-senger. Congress needs to empty its handbag and re-evaluate those nickels and dimes.
  Andrea Keating is a guest columnist for the 
Central Florida Future at UCF. 
 Postal service still necessary despite convenience of InternetUWireAaron Applbaum
UWireTYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
LaFAYETTE, Ga.
Keri O’Neil is a heavy sleeper; few distur -
bances get her up and moving. But at 5 a.m. on 
Feb. 12, lying on the maroon carpet in Room 108 of the Key West Inn, all it took was a slight shake of the foot.
“Do you want to go some place really cool 
with me?” Grant Lockenbach asked.
“What?”The room was still dark as eight other UF 
students slept through the conversation. They had come to LaFayette, Ga., to spend the day exploring caves.
“Come on,” he said. “I’ve been up for more 
than an hour. There’s this really cool place I want to go. Just come with me.”
Lockenbach had checked into the hotel at 
11:40 the night before, though nobody went to sleep until 3 a.m., when the second half of the group arrived from Gainesville. This morning marked O’Neil and Lockenbach’s 20th day as a couple, and she had already grown used to her boyfriend’s impulsiveness. 
When the two couldn’t decide on an ap-
propriate time for their first date, he came to O’Neil’s house and asked her to hop in his beat-up green Volvo. He drove to Ben Hill Grif-fin Stadium, and they sat behind the end zone, just talking. It was a weeknight in January , and Lockenbach had to get up at 5 a.m. for ROTC training. He didn’t care. They talked for hours.
Lockenbach and O’Neil first met through 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes as freshmen in September 2008, but they didn’t become close until Keri’s twin, Michele, started dating one of Lockenbach’s best friends in the summer of 2010. While on a religious fast at the beginning of this year, Lockenbach thought he heard God telling him to date Keri. He wrote her a poem, asking to take her on a date at the end. She needed to think about it. 
“No pressure, but I’m 100 percent confident 
that we’re supposed to be dating,” he said.
On the morning of Feb. 12, she agreed to 
sneak out of the hotel. Lockenbach, who stood 6-feet tall, 175 pounds with a strong jaw and buzzed black hair, handed her three pairs of socks. About 15 minutes later, she sat shoeless overlooking LaFayette, a rural Georgia town 101 miles  northwest of Atlanta with a popula-tion of about 8,000 and a billboard appealing to the Sons of the Confederate Army . Lockenbach didn’t care about losing sleep. He wanted to watch the sun rise.
The only problem was neither of them knew 
which direction to look or when the sun would actually come up. They sat. They talked. They waited. And, two hours later, shivering in the dim, 28-degree morning, they left.
Within 10 minutes, as they drove down the 
hill, the sun peeked over the horizon. Locken-bach pulled a 10-point turn and gunned his car back up.
“What were we thinking?” he asked, frus-
trated with his own impatience. “It’s not like the sun just wasn’t going to rise today.”
  
Michael Pirie heard screams, but he didn’t 
hear words. Nobody did.
It was 2 p.m., and Pirie stood with eight oth-
ers at the ledge of a 125-foot pit. The group was hoping for a fun weekend surveying Pigeon Mountain. But now, standing on that ledge amid the darkness of Ellisons Cave, they were desperate to decipher Lockenbach’s voice. 
Each member of the group was part of FCA, 
and Lockenbach was the president. He was the most experienced caver — one of the only expe-rienced cavers, in fact.
A thrill-seeker, Lockenbach started cave div-
ing three years ago. During the 2010-2011 school year alone, he had gone on at least five trips, roommate Aaron McPhail said. Two weeks ear -
lier, Lockenbach led a group to Tumbling Rock Cave in Jackson County , Ala. Before that, on his way back from New York after a New Year’s Eve trip, Lockenbach and his friends explored PettyJohns, one of about 60 caves inside Pigeon Mountain. 
Lockenbach was a member of the univer -
sity’s ROTC, trained to parachute from planes and rappel out of helicopters. He belonged to a local rock-climbing gym, where he once chatted with his mother on the phone while hanging upside-down. He dropped the phone, and her ears were greeted with a thud. 
On this Saturday afternoon, the rest of the 
students explored a separate part of Ellisons Cave while Lockenbach and Pirie rigged ropes at the Warm Up Pit. In the process, a black High Sierra backpack somehow fell 125 feet below them. The bag held ropes and other climbing gear, so Lockenbach went down to retrieve it.
Now, minutes later, Pirie and the rest of the 
group listened intently. For whatever reason, Lockenbach’s voice was not reaching them clearly. Perhaps his words were muffled from bouncing off the rocks. Or maybe he couldn’t compete with the sound of the waterfall. 
Snow had fallen in LaFayette three days ear -
lier, and cold water ran through the cave toward the pits. During their exploration, the other eight students had, at times, been waist-deep. 
It was fitting that Pirie, a marketing fresh-
man from Oviedo, and Lockenbach, a sociology junior from DeLand, split from the rest of the group. During a three-day weekend retreat in January to Gatlinburg, Tenn., Lockenbach told other upperclassmen that Pirie could one day become the FCA president. 
Most members of the group hardly knew 
Pirie before the trip. He played bass in the 29-member UF drumline, and he spent eight hours a week at practice during the fall. But football season was finished, and he had be-come more involved with FCA.
In Tennessee, he became “Magic Mike” after 
surprising people with card illusions (“Tricks are for kids; I do illusions,” he once wrote in a document on his computer). As a senior at Lake Highland Prepatory the previous year, Pirie had been president of Project Magic, the Orlando chapter of David Copperfield’s organi-zation that performs magic shows in hospitals and low-income communities. 
He cut women into thirds and reattached 
them. He used metamorphosis to switch places with a friend padlocked inside a mail bag. He had mastered the teleportation box. But his spe-cialty was sleight of hand. He was named Mr. Lake Highland Prep after turning one student’s card into ash, rubbing it on both sides of his forearm and exposing a message reading, “The Ace of Spades.” 
Luckily, someone had a deck in Tennessee.“That was crazy ,” one FCA member said. 
“He did this one trick where he pulled a card out of nowhere. It was like some David Blaine stuff. For real, dude.”
Lockenbach was just as impressed by Magic 
Mike’s commitment to FCA. Pirie played drums in the worship team during Wednesday night services and was at Bible study every Monday. When Lockenbach and other FCA members fin-ished a three-week religious fast, Pirie showed up at the celebration just to be with them. Lockenbach wolfed down waffle sandwiches with scoops of ice cream in between. Pirie ate uncooked turkey bacon drizzled in chocolate syrup just because someone said, “You won’t.”
Pirie was 5-foot-9 and 152 pounds, and 
his brown hair seemed to always stay perfect, combed left to right. He liked wakeboarding, snowboarding and doing flips off swing sets. He invented dances: Stomp the Rat, Tip the Hat, Kick the Cat. He told friends in FCA he would mas-sage a sleeping girl’s bare feet if he lost a bet. He won the bet. He did it anyway.
“They’re the same person. Mike is like the 
freshman version of Grant,” said Michele O’Neil, who stood beside Pirie in Ellisons Cave.
The group knew Lockenbach needed help, 
so three students sprinted down the mountain to call 911. They had brought a cellphone into the cave for emergencies, but it sat at the bottom of the pit. 
Pirie and the rest of the students who stayed 
in the cave heard bits of Lockenbach’s screams. He yelled for Pirie. They tried to explain a res-cue team was coming, tried to tell him to stay calm for just a little longer. In a half hour, they said, the rescue team will be here. But their voic-es weren’t reaching him, and Lockenbach kept calling for Michael, kept telling him he needed help.
The group needed a liaison, someone who 
could calm Lockenbach as they waited for the rescue team. A girl volunteered, but Pirie re-buffed her. 
“Can you pray for me?” he asked. “Because 
I have no idea what I’m doing.”
He then strapped on a white helmet and 
descended. He didn’t rappel, a woman in the group later remembered. He basically just fell down the pit. 
“We’re OK,” Pirie yelled from somewhere 
below. “We’re just cold.”
At the ledge, Keri O’Neil prayed. God, save them. Comfort them.
  
Pigeon Mountain forms the right half of a 
V with Lookout Mountain, and the two fuse at the northwestern corner of Georgia. The former occupies about 20,000 acres and reaches an alti-tude of about 2,300 feet. It lies on the Tennessee-Alabama-Georgia line, a North American spe-lunking Mecca. Every year, 10,000 cavers come to the mountain.
Nobody knows when people started inves-
tigating the intestines of Pigeon Mountain, but historians found ads more than a century old persuading readers to explore PettyJohns Cave. Ellisons is one of the most popular spots among experienced cavers looking for a challenge, most notably because of Fantastic Pit and its 586-foot drop — the deepest caving pit in the continental United States.
The Crockford-Pigeon Mountain Wildlife 
Management Area is located off Georgia High-way 193, but even from LaFayette it can be dif-ficult to navigate. There are several entrances, but no reassuring signs. Even after finding the desired entrance, an inexperienced caver can easily get lost.  
When hiking toward PettyJohns, for ex-
ample, a path can form in the mind’s eye only to disappear steps later among the rocks and wrinkled brown leaves that swallow each step. If hikers turn left, they may think they took a wrong turn. They will try to turn back before realizing they don’t know how they arrived in the first place. Then comes the actual cave.
For Lockenbach, this was a proper sport, a 
sport untouched by man-made attraction. There are no real rules, only suggestions. The rocks are the boundaries. Caving is not a sport in the sense of winning and losing. There is no race to the top, no medal for exploring the deepest pits. And the danger, unlike in most traditional 
sports, is always real.
According to the 
National Speleologi-cal Society , between 1986 and 2008, there were reports world-wide of 394 cavers falling, 162 being stranded or trapped, 169 being hit by fall-
ing rocks, 100 getting lost and 49 suffering from hypothermia. Seventy-five cavers died.
But this trip was not about danger or, really , 
any type of discovery for Lockenbach.
“He doesn’t plan trips because he loves cav-
ing,” said Dustin Gill, one of his roommates. “He plans trips because he wants to get to know people.”
  
Gill was not supposed to go to LaFayette 
with Lockenbach and Aaron McPhail, his other roommate.
A paper was due Sunday night, and he 
hadn’t even started. But when a car showed up at 7 p.m. on Friday to pick up McPhail — Lockenbach and others left around noon — Gill decided to go, too.
You could knock out two pages in the hotel 
room, his friends convinced him. He scrambled to pack a bag, and 10 minutes later, he was rid-ing in Michele O’Neil’s blue 2005 Ford Escape.
Like the others in his group, Gill did not re-
alize Lockenbach was in trouble when he first arrived at the Warm Up Pit. He could hear yell-ing, but the only words he understood were, “Help!” and “I’m stuck!” 
McPhail and another man started walking 
back to the parking lot to call for assistance, but Gill continued to hear Lockenbach’s screams and realized the situation was more desper -
ate than anyone originally thought. He bolted down the mountain.
Gill and Lockenbach met in Mrs. Adney’s 
third grade class at Woodward Avenue Elemen-tary School in DeLand. Lockenbach’s family had just moved from Atlanta. Both students were in the school’s gifted program, and they were in the same classes for three straight years.
They had grown up climbing trees and eat-
ing Chinese plums. In Gainesville, Lockenbach would pop his head in Gill’s room to bum cookie dough or instigate debates with ques-tions like, “What would Karl Marx think about Walmart?”
Reaching the bottom of Pigeon Mountain, 
Gill dialed 911 at 2:19 p.m. He tried to remain calm, but he struggled to catch his breath. His voice cracked.
“It’s just one guy who is down there and 
can’t get back up,” he said, unaware of what Pi-rie would soon do. “He said he would flash his flashlight if he needed help. I think he dropped his flashlight because all you can see is the light down there. There’s water. We can’t hear any-thing he’s saying, but he’s definitely calling for help.”  
“We’re OK. We’re just cold,” Pirie continued 
to tell whoever could hear him. 
It was 3:30 p.m. He had been in the pit for 
half an hour, and he still didn’t know when the rescue team would arrive. He told Lockenbach they would soon be safe, and he kept yelling to Keri, letting her know they were hanging on. But the panic in Pirie’s voice betrayed him.
“Grant!” he yelled. Pirie repeated the name 
twice more — Grant! Grant! — his voice grow-ing louder, more desperate each time. 
Keri asked Pirie if her boyfriend was OK, 
knowing the truth before the words escaped her mouth. Pirie did not lie, electing instead to misinterpret the question.
“I’m fine,” he told her. “I’m fine.”She asked again. And, again, Pirie answered 
a different question. 
By about 3:45 p.m., Keri lost hope. She 
stopped asking questions. When the three-man Initial Response Task Force arrived at 3:58 p.m., she left with the two other women who had stayed in the cave. As she walked into the light, Keri cried, sure she would never see her boy-friend again. 
  
The first members of the rescue team arrived 
in the gravel parking lot at the base of Pigeon Mountain at 3:11 p.m., about an hour after Gill dialed 911. Unlike with crimes or fires, caving emergencies demand a long response time.  
A rescue team isn’t sitting together at a po-
lice station or a fire department, just waiting to spring into action when needed. Chuck Waters, the regional supervisor of the Georgia Depart-ment of Natural Resources, was at the mall when he received the call.
In all, the rescue team consisted of 34 mem-
bers: five from the department of natural re-sources, six from Walker County Emergency 
Services and 23 volunteers. 
Once 
members of the team had assembled, 
they still had to march one mile to the cave, lo-cated 850 feet above the parking lot. The Initial Response Task Force started the hike at 3:20 p.m. They reached the Warm Up Pit about 40 minutes later, and Anmar Mirza rappelled to where Lockenbach and Pirie were suspended — about 80 feet down.
Neither man responded to Mirza’s calls. Pirie was below Lockenbach, his head rest-
ing on his own right shoulder and his helmet hanging by a string. Pirie’s left arm was ex-tended, a thick black rope wrapped around his wrist. That rope was entangled with another.
When the rescue team found him, Locken-
bach’s mouth and nose were filled with water. His arms were stretched out, his face tilted to-ward the sky.
Nobody knows exactly what happened to 
Lockenbach during his descent. Some members of the rescue team think his rope was too short for the 125-foot pit. Others say the rope’s length was fine, suggesting he was unable to maneu-ver once he became trapped in the waterfall. 
Water running down the pit came from the 
nearby snow that had just started melting. Its temperature was in the high 30s or low 40s. Cav-ers are instructed to wear three layers of cloth-ing in such conditions. Lockenbach was wear -
ing a blue Florida Gators T-shirt, Pirie a black long-sleeved shirt and khaki shorts. When the rescue team found him, Lockenbach had been in the waterfall for more than two hours, Pirie for about half as long.
According to the autopsy report, it is pos-
sible that one or both of them experienced cold shock response. With their bodies submerged in water of that temperature, they could have hy-perventilated for up to three minutes. Both men would have eventually recovered.
Body temperature normally rests at 98.6 de-
grees Fahrenheit; hypothermia occurs when it dips below 95. In 40-degree water, it can take effect in 10 to 20 minutes, but Lockenbach and Pirie weren’t fully submerged, likely delaying the process. Once hypothermia sets in, howev-er, muscles grow weak and blood flows toward the core of the body , away from the extremities,  causing loss of coordination.
The heart and the nervous system and other 
organs stop functioning correctly, and speech is slurred, and confusion sets in. Breathing be-comes slow. It becomes shallow. Organs soon fail; it just becomes a matter of which one stops first, which one becomes the culprit.
But well before any organ failed, well before 
the nearly ice-cold water overwhelmed Pirie and Lockenbach, they likely experienced Sus-pension Trauma. 
As you hang in a harness, blood begins to 
build up in your legs. If you can move around and shift your weight, the blood will continue to circulate.
But if you stop moving, your circulation 
slows. Your brain, realizing it is not receiving the proper blood flow, sends your body into shock. Your pulse increases. You breathe faster. You feel sick. You sweat. You shiver. You be-come anxious. Eventually , you faint. 
When the rescue team found the bodies, they 
also found two lights shining: a headlamp on a nearby ledge and a Mini Maglite 40 feet below.
  
“Would God ever ask you to jump off a 
cliff?”
Jason Mills posed that question to the FCA 
freshmen Bible study group in his living room one Monday night. 
He had been reading “The Shack,” a Chris-
tian novel. In the book, Mack, the protagonist, takes his daughters on a camping trip. He tells them about a princess who jumped off a cliff to cure her tribe of a disease. His daughter won-dered why the princess had to sacrifice her life. She asked her father if God would force her to do the same. Mack said no. God would never do that.
So, Mills asked, do you agree with Mack? 
Pirie was the first to answer. As he spoke, Mills thought to himself, “This kid is not confused. He knows what his faith demands of him.” Five days later, Pirie rappelled down the Warm Up Pit inside Ellisons Cave.
“I had no idea how literal that question 
would be in Michael’s life,” Mills told a group of friends the night after Pirie died.
Pirie would have turned 19 on June 18; Lock-
enbach was just one week shy of his 21st birth-day. But in the weeks following their deaths, a theme emerged at funerals and campus memo-rial services: They simply were not meant to grow old. Forever, they will be the kids who invented “extreme swinging” on middle school playgrounds. Forever, they will be the ones who planned to drink their first beers with bums to show they cared.
Dustin Gill and Aaron McPhail, who both 
lived with Lockenbach, said they are recovering as best they can. They live in the same house this year. They rented out Lockenbach’s room to a friend. It’s just a room. It’s not Grant.
“Imagine a staircase with the bottom being 
despair and the top being accepting reality,” Gill said. “I’m doing OK because I’m going up the steps. The steps hurt. Going back to the ho-tel that night, that hurt. Driving his car back to Gainesville the next morning, that hurt. But as long as I keep moving up the steps and not go-ing back, I’m doing OK.”
The week after the trip, Keri O’Neil would 
not eat unless someone placed food in front of her. The idea of standing up and walking across the room to her kitchen was exhausting. She had good reason. Every night, almost every hour, on the hour, she woke up. 
After her boyfriend woke her with a slight 
shake of the foot in Room 108 of the Key West Inn, Keri O’Neil became a light sleeper.  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 9 8, ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
What Faith Demands
Courtesy to the Alligator
Grant Lockenbach, 20, a sociology junior and president of the Fellowship of Christian 
Athletes, led a group of UF students on a cave exploration trip in LaFayette, Ga.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Michael Pirie, 18, a marketing freshman from Oviedo and a member of the UF drumline, 
rappelled into a 125-foot pit on Feb. 12 after hearing his friend call for help.“They’re the same person. 
Mike is  like the freshman version 
of Grant.”
Michele O’NealOne UF student sacrificed his life to comfort his friendTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive
$349 4/4 All-Inclusive
VISA Gift Cards Available
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line.
All utilities included. Furnished.Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398           10-14-11-2-1
7 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS
2BR/1BA duplex. New kitchen, W/D incl. 
Quiet area. Available now. $625/mo incl wa-ter. Call 352-871-6413   9-30-11-10-1
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
     1,2,3,BR’s – Welcome Home!
·         HUGE floorplans! * H20/Sewer Incl!·         W/D Avail! * Pets Loved!·         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis·        376-2507 * BivensCove.com 12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-23-11-29-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    10-17-11-40-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1800/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    10-10-11-35-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-58879-20-20-2Spectacular 3BR, Lakefront Condo
1 mile south of UF and Shandsrecently renovated,  $1299 monthpool, clubhouse, 2500 s.f. + garageavailable immediately (352) 262-2871    9-21-11-20-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
Spacious 3br/2ba/2cg home in Blues Creek, 
huge Mbr/ba w/walk-in closet,cent ac/heat w/sec sys,internet hookup, all appls, W/D, $1200/mo, 7953 NW 48 way, call 954-805-7827, 561-912-6223, billyo110708@att.net  9-20-11-10-2
SPACIOUS TOWNHOME with backyard,
2BR/1.5BA
off Archer Road near UF.
Contact 386-328-6229.
e-mail moritae@yahoo.com $529/month
9-29-11-15-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   9-27-11-10-2
1BR/1BA Apts, side-by-side. Large screened-
in porch, W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499/each. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2 & 3 Please call 352-371-3473    10-5-11-15-2
Peaceful living, large floorplans, closets 
galore, FREE CABLE, must see upgrades 1/1 from $550 2/2 from $595352-372-9913                          10-5-11-14-2
4 Bedroom/3 Bath. Walk to Class!
Pool. 2 Living Rooms. Game Room. Lots of 
Parking. Move-in date is Jan. 1. Call John 
@ 561-866-8234 for further info.
9-23-5-2
OLD FLORIDA STYLE COTTAGE.
Central h/a, laundry with w/d, large screened
porch. Perfect for a grad student or profes-
sional. Walk to UF. 2703 NW 2nd ave.
$795 mo. www.flalcam.com 352-332-5836
9-30-11-10-2● 2BR2BA HOUSE, w/carport, W/D hk-ups. 
Pet ok. $750/mo● 1BR/1BA APT Pet ok. $475/mo.Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644    10-14-11-20-2
ATTN: UF and Shands Employees 
2 BR 1 Bath homes in Gainesville. 
Spacious fenced-in yards, bring your pets! 
Brand new energy upgrades. $570-$660/mo
Near 6th St. on 39th Ave. 336-9477   
10-17-25-2
1/1 in a 3/3 at the Enclave. $514/month, 
cable, utilities, wireless internet, and fur-niture included. January 2012-July 2012. Must be a female UF student. Email Krista at ufkris2011@gmail.com for details.   9-20-11-7-3
RENT $357/mo. 1bed/bath available in a 3/3. 
All inclusive, incl. internet, cable, electric-ity. With washer/dryer. I will pay application fee. Available Jan-May 2012. (Negotiable). Females only. Call 386 546 6315   9-21-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    9-21-11-72-2
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
12, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Here at Techmodo we give CASH for your 
electronics! We also repair smartphones, gaming systems, computers and ipods! (352) 872-5881 6450 SW Archer Rd (Next to Beef O Bradys)   9-26-5-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
Jeep Wrangler Sahara
4 doors, black, hard top, new 33" Toyo tires, and manual 6 speed. $18,000, call 352-234-0145.   9-23-11-4-12LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      9-22-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
$$ CASH PAID, UP TO $500 $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
The Independent Florida Alligator
IT Department
Is now accepting applications for a
STUDENT  INTERN
If you are a student able to work 4-10 hours
per week this fall and are eager to gain
valuable hands-on experience in desktop
support and network infrastructure, then stop
by the Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F,
9am-4pm to fill out an application.
Please include available work schedule,
references, and resume.
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   9-21-11-20-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Centerplate Part-Time Jobs!
● Event Supervisors● Warehouse Runners● CashiersApply in person at Ben Hill Griffin StadiumMonday-Friday 8:00 AM to 4:00 PMwww.centerplate.eventbrite.com
(352) 692-6244
                      9-23-11-17-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
Florida Football Drink Seller!
Tremendous Cash in a Short Time!Yes - it is a work out!Apply in person at Concessions OfficeGate 18 BHG Stadium       9-23-11-17-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and Reliable371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G9-30-21-14
 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
MARTIAL ARTS INSTRUCTOR WANTED!
For growing tkd school in Gainesville.Friendly, energetic person.Experience preferred.Leave message at (352)375-0700.     9-23-11-14-14
Doorstep Delivery seeks delivery drivers! 
Flexible schedule, perfect job for students looking for extra $. Very busy during game weekends! Must be 21+ with a clean driving record. Please call 352.224.3090 for more details.   9-21-11-10-14
Participants wanted for Perception Study. 
Ages 18-35, Native English Speakers with normal hearing. $10 compensation for partic-ipation. Contact Krista at spl.ufl@gmail.com. Study begins September 15th.   9-21-10-14
If you are age 18-30 with a sedentary to mod-
erately active lifestyle, Dr. Thomas Buford is conducting a study to investigate the poten-tial role of blood flow in the loss of muscle as we age. Participation in the study will require 5 visits to the clinical lab, medical history, blood and muscle tissue sample, physical and cognitive testing, MRI. Compensation of up to $250 in gift cards. Call the UF Institute on Aging, 352-273-5919.    9-22-11-10-14
ACT Coordinator
Immediate full time or part time opening for a person with SAT/ACT tutoring background to help develop a new program at Gleim Publications. Great opportunity a "go getter". Must have strong written and verbal skills and a good attention to detail. Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com/employment    9-23-11-10-14.SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRINGGreat working environment. PT/FT positions available. Apply in person @ 2906 NW 13Tth St. 352-372-1226 sandysresale.com    9-26-11-10-14
Sleep Center Superstores is looking to fill 
FULL & PART time positions for SALES & DELIVERY help. Candidates must be de-pendable, honest, personable & motivated. We will work with obscure schedules. $7.31-$10.00 per hour depending on experience, plus incentives. Apply in person 4994 NW 39th Avenue Suite A Gainesville 32606. (352) 872-5668     9-20-11-5-14
ATTENTION SEDENTARY ADULTS (50+)!!
Need participants in a UF study assessing the accuracy of an advanced pedometer. $$$ provided!!! If interested, call 336-406-3706 or email FitBit10000@gmail.com    9-23-8-14
LAW CLERK-P/T. Law student, creative 
problem solver. Green conscious, book lover, passion for writing/knowledge/fitness/MMA. 626 NE 1st St, 32601. Send resume & writing sample to paulsrothstein@gmail.com    9-27-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   10-12-20-14Housekeeping- occasional housekeeper 
wanted to clean for 3 hours in Haile Plantation at $50. About every two weeks, more possible. Call 352-335-29089-6-1-14
Native French speaker to babysit 5 y/o boy 
3-5 hrs/wk. $20/hr cash.Prefer female, but will consider male apps. Flexible hrs to accommodate your schedule. 352-328-6828                9-23-11-6-14 
GARDENING
& exterior landscape work, 4-6 hours/week, 
$10/hour, contact rlevy@mmparrish.comor call Roz, 870-9100.                   9-22-5-14
Female Nanny / Babysitter needed in 
Gainesville. Flexible hours, great pay to help with one child. If needed, we have a separate townhouse available for the right candidate. Contact Paula - 352-263-8962.9-29-11-10-14
 Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481   9-30-11-10-14
Printroom, Inc. is looking for outgoing and motivated Fan Photographers to capture im-ages at the Gators' home games this football season. No exp. required. You must be avail-able for ALL home games. Top performers make between $15-$20/hour. For more info and to apply, please visit: www.facebook.com/Printroom.   9-26-11-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15Get A Massage!Proven to help relaxation, regain men-tal focus and improve test performance! Call Garrett Blanton, L.M.T. MA#55181 @ Advanced Massage Call 328-2919/377-6008.   9-30-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  Familiarize your-
self with the new GRE exam in this work-shop from the UF Teaching Center, Monday - Thursday, 9/19-29.  Verbal sessions on M & W, 9/19 & 9/21; Math on Thursday, 9/22 & 9/29.  All sessions take place from 5-7 p.m.  Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.    9-20-5-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
KANAPAHA
BOTANICAL GARDENS
HALF OFF WITH GATOR ONE CARD 
DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER.
Come and enjoy our beautiful gardens!
9-30-20-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique, 
KEY WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in. Clothes, Gifts, Art, Books, Music, Plants... Hwy 441S.... 15 min that could change you.   10-26-31-21
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
EXPERIENCED GED & ESOL TEACHER.
Will help with research papers, writing & speaking. 30 years experience. Please call 352-519-5242 or 954-605-1676    9-23-11-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
Hypknow Inc.
Free Consultation
Lose Weight*Stop Smoking*Live Pain Free
352-875-6451 www.alansupplee.com
Dr. Alan Paul Supplee
9-23-11-5-16
14, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
THE RALLY
Tom: We’re three games into Will Mus-
champ’s first season and finally have our first Southeastern Conference 
game under our belts, so we’re starting to get an idea of Florida’s offensive identity. To this point, it’s been a heavy dose of run-ning backs, both on handoffs and in the passing game, but the receivers have been a non-factor. 
This has to be a concern moving forward 
with the meat of the Gators’ schedule on the horizon, right?
Greg: No, not really. Not at all, in fact.Chris Rainey, Jeff Demps and Trey Bur -
ton are Florida’s three best playmakers. They need to get the majority of touches.
Whether you’re playing Alabama or 
Furman, Gainesville High or the New Eng-land Patriots, your best players are your best players, and they need to get the ball the most for the offense to be successful.
Elite defenses — the type Florida will 
face in October — are good enough to take away any team’s top threat. While the Gators’ offense may be one-dimensional, it’s based on more than just one player. If a defense slides to Rainey on the right, Florida has Demps on the left. And if you commit to tak-ing away both, Bur -
ton will pound it up the middle.
Florida’s attack 
is what it is, and asking it to be more than that is a recipe for disaster.
Tom: Here’s the thing: Elite defenses — 
like the Alabama’s and LSU’s of the world — aren’t going to play Florida like FAU, UAB and Tennessee did. 
They’re not going to play soft coverage 
downfield and give the Gators the swing passes to Demps, Rainey and Burton. They have the speed to take the flats away and force John Brantley to do some actual throwing. 
And those teams most certainly will try 
to take away the run from Florida. The run-ning backs will still get their touches, but LSU and Alabama are ranked third and fourth in the nation in rushing defense, re-spectively. 
Florida’s receivers 
are going to need to be more than decoys — which they’ve been for the better part of three games — if the Gators hope to be successful on 
offense.
Greg: The Alabama and LSU rush de-
fenses may be strong, but their ability to stop the pass isn’t far behind. Through three games, Alabama ranks fifth nation-ally. LSU is 19th.
Florida could barely get the aerial attack 
going against FAU and UAB, so why should they expect to have any success against top-flight opponents?
No matter who UF plays, a carry from 
Demps or Rainey has the potential to go the distance.
Because the offensive line has played 
surprisingly well, Florida’s best bet is to pound it and hope one of them can take it to the house.The mere threat of speedy receivers De-
onte Thompson or Quinton Dunbar getting up the field is enough to keep the defense honest.
Tom: Yeah, those pass defense numbers 
aren’t too shabby; but last I checked, Flor -
ida was all about taking what the defense gives it. That’s not going to be the short passing game and running game against those teams since their strengths are stop-ping the run.
Florida couldn’t get the aerial attack go-
ing its first three games because the oppos-ing defenses weren’t going to let it. Smarter teams will make Florida pass, and the Gators have  to establish the passing game 
for Dunbar and Thompson to be considered threats.
Of Brantley’s 47 completions, 17 have 
been to receivers. 
That’s not going to cut it moving for -
ward, and it’s why the Gators need to do more than just get the ball to their three-headed monster at running back.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org 
and Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org. 
Does Florida’s offense need to get its receivers involved?
Tom Green
twitter: @tomas_verde
Greg Luca
twitter: @greglucaTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
The Mailbag 
Get your questions in for this week’s edition of The 
Mailbag. Get creative, we want to hear from you. Submit questions on Twitter: @alligatorSports alligatorSports Podcast
Tom Green and Matt Watts join host Greg Luca to bring you another action-packed podcast breaking down Florida’s win against Tennessee on Saturday. Check it out on iTunes or at alligatorSports.org. Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida offensive coordinator Charlie Weis said he works to orchestrate the Gators’ first few drives of each game. The plan is working thus far, as UF has scored on its first possession in every game this season and holds a 33-0 advantage against opponents in first quarters. Florida outscored opponents 56-48 in the first quarter last year.
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida’s offense has thrived from the opening act in each 
game, in part because the players have received simple instruc-
tions: follow the script.
Offensive coordinator Charlie Weis has orchestrated the 
Gators’ initial plays well in advance this year, holding meetings with quarterback John Brantley about 24 hours before kickoffs to go through the team’s first two or three drives. Weis tells Brant-ley the plays he wants to run, in order, and Brantley lets his coach know if he feels uncomfortable with anything on the script.
“It’s a really good idea,” Brantley said Monday. “It gives you 
a chance to look at what you’re running to get familiar with it.  … It’s real important going into a game.”
Florida has scored on each of its three opening drives this year, 
including a nine-play, 80-yard series ending in a touchdown Sat-urday against Tennessee. In all, the Gators have outscored op-ponents 33-0 in the first quarter.
Last season, Florida outscored oppo-
nents 56-48 in the opening quarter.
Roberson passes test: Facing a produc-
tive passing attack for the first time in his college career, freshman cornerback Mar -
cus Roberson helped limit Tennessee to 288 passing yards — about 50 yards shy of the Vols’ season average.
Coach Will Muschamp said Roberson does a good job of jam-
ming receivers at the line and getting between the ball and its intended target. Once the ball is in the air, Roberson attacks it. 
He jumped a slant route in the third quarter Saturday for what 
looked to be his first career interception, but the play was called back as Roberson was charged with a questionable pass interfer -
ence.
“He works hard at practice,” Muschamp said. “He has good 
retention — day in, day out — for what we do and how we do it. I’ve been very pleased with his progress.”
While the Gators defensive backs received praise for keep-
ing the Vols’ hyped air attack in check, Muschamp said his team Gators’ first-quarter success hinges on designed play calls
See NoteBook, p Age 16
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
ST. PETERSBURG — Marcus Maye 
lights up most fields he steps on — even 
the barely-lit ones.
On Friday, Maye, a Florida oral com-
mit, and Melbourne Holy Trinity (2-0) dominated St. Petersburg Catholic (0-3), 35-6, on a run-down Northside Christian field more suitable as a dog park than a football field.
Maye, rated the No. 5 safety in the na-
tion by Rivals.com, is used to this kind of low-key playing environment. 
“It’s definitely like, ‘Wow,’ but I still 
gotta play to the best of my ability and do everything I have to do to get the job done,” he said of playing in obscure backyard pitches of grass across Flori-da’s tiny Class 3A landscape.
After going up against some of the 
nation’s best talent during the summer combine season, Maye has received plenty of hate mail regarding his choice to play at Holy Trinity rather than a larg-er Melbourne public school in a competi-tive class.
“I decided to go to the Holy Trinity 
School because it was a college prepa-ratory school, and then football was just, you know, there,” he said. “I felt like I needed to get away from certain things and be around the right people to keep focused and maintain that right path. I definitely get (criticism) from all my friends who go to public school. …They say , ‘Oh, you play small ball,’ but I just take it and run with it. I feel like I dedicate myself hard enough to where I can be fulfilled and prove everybody wrong.”
Come fall 2012, though, the 6-foot-1, 
195-pound Maye will have to transition from playing near local swamps to The Maye taking different path
� FLORIDA HAS ALLOWED JUST 92 
RUSHING YARDS IN THREE GAMES.
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
On the Gators’ defense, some players are 
more visible than others.
In addition to his well-publicized dance 
moves, Dominique Easley turned heads by 
blasting into the Tennessee backfield more often than not Saturday. 
Matt Elam’s interception that sealed the 
victory will be replayed time and again, but he also made headlines for Twitter barbs ex-changed with Vols receiver Da’Rick Rogers.
All Jon Bostic and Jelani Jenkins do is 
show up and make plays. 
The unsung heroes of Florida’s defense, 
Bostic led the team with eight tackles against 
Tennessee, and Jenkins was second with six. Both linebackers also picked up a sack of quarterback Tyler Bray, and the Gators held the Vols to minus-9 yards rushing — the best effort by Florida’s defense since the 2006 Ten-nessee game (minus-11). 
“The (defensive) linemen did a great job 
of keeping the offensive linemen off of me, 
and I give all my praise to them,” Jenkins said after the win. 
Quiet and modest in in-
terviews, Jenkins and Bostic come alive on Saturdays.
While Easley, Jaye 
Howard and the rest of the defensive front play a large 
role, they also need reliable talent behind them.
Together, the unit has limited opponents 
to 92 yards rushing through three games, tops in the nation. 
Against Tennessee, Bostic said stopping Bostic, Jenkins quietly leading 
UF’s top-ranked rush defense
See RecR uit, p Age 16
See defeNSe, p Age 16Bostic
UF Fo otball
Quotable
“Man — I don’t even want to 
talk about it.” 
Jelani Jenkins  
UF linebacker (on dropped picks)
RecR uitiNgSwamp.
Maye came to Gainesville for Florida’s 
Southeastern Conference opener against 
Tennessee, his second gameday experience. He said he’s ready to line up among those orange-and-blue jerseys in a few months.
“It’s not gonna be easy ,” he said. “I’ve 
made a very big jump from (3)A football to SEC football, but I feel like I work hard and that’s why I can make that transition any-where.”
Maye finished with 142 yards and three 
touchdowns Friday. On the other side of the ball, he recorded eight tackles.
After an explosive 40-yard interception return, Maye raised his hand and extended his arms, preparing to do the Gator Chomp in the end zone.
In this brief moment of celebration, one 
of Florida high school football’s most unas-suming egos was called back to the 2-yard line for dropping the ball before crossing the goal line. A St. Pete Catholic defender recovered the fumble in the end zone for a touchback. So Maye lined up again, this time on defense, just to watch the opposing team take it 80 yards for its lone touchdown of the night. He expressed no reaction.
Humility is perhaps something public 
school wouldn’t have taught him.
Oral commitments are non-binding until 
a national letter of intent is signed on or after National Signing Day on Feb. 1, 2012.16, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gators linebackers Jon Bostic (52) and Jelani Jenkins (3) helped limit Tennessee to 
minus-9 yards rushing Saturday — the lowest total for a UF defense since 2006.
Finley to return against UK
needs to intercept more passes. Florida 
dropped at least four potential picks Satur -
day.
“It’s nice to be there, but you got to fin-
ish the play,” Muschamp said. 
“You don’t get your name in the paper 
for dropping one.”
Roberson dropped one. So did Matt 
Elam. Jelani Jenkins dropped two.
Injuries: Junior cornerback Jeremy 
Brown will be out “a couple more weeks” with a knee injury, Muschamp said. Brown suffered a sprained knee the first week of training camp, and Muschamp initially thought the defensive back would be ready for the season opener.
“The knee has just not responded com-
ing off the injury,” Muschamp said Mon-day. “There is no surgery required — very frustrated for Jeremy. He is a great young man. I hurt for him.”
Tight end Jordan Reed (hamstring) is 
questionable for Saturday’s game against 
Kentucky. Reed did not dress out against Ten-nessee, and sophomore Gerald Christian took his place.
Freshman offensive 
lineman Trip Thurman underwent shoulder sur -
gery Monday morning 
and will miss the rest of 
the season.
Finley back: Linebacker Dee Finley will 
travel with the team after serving a team-imposed one-game suspension Saturday. Finley was arrested Sept. 12 for driving with a suspended license and resisting arrest.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.NOTEBOOK , from page 15Stopping run ‘changed the game’
senior running back Tauren Poole (nine rush-
es, 18 yards) definitely “changed the game,” allowing the defense to key on Bray and the passing attack.
For the seventh straight game in the se-
ries, the team that won the rushing battle won the game; and again, that team was Florida. 
Despite all the attention on Bray and the 
Gators’ inexperienced secondary leading up to the game, it all came down to basics: run the ball and stop the run.
“All throughout two-a-days and even 
this summer, even when the coaches first got here in the spring, that was an emphasis we wanted to make,” Bostic said. 
“We want to stop the run. We want to 
be one of the most physical defenses in the country.”
He said the defense’s ranking is unim-
portant. What is important is making the opposi-
tion one-dimensional. 
Jenkins agreed, saying how Florida start-
ed the game set the tone.
The Gators scored on their first four pos-
sessions, and apart from a 10-yard run from Poole on the Vols’ first drive, the defense didn’t allow a rush for more than 6 yards the rest of the way.
“That forces them to try to get points 
and they start forcing the ball in the air a lot more,” Jenkins said. 
The secondary benefited, recording the 
team’s first two interceptions of the season, including Elam’s exclamation point as time was running out in the fourth quarter. 
“The front seven played phenomenal, 
like always,” Elam said. 
“They played a very good game, stopping 
the run, forcing the pass, and we handled our business.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.
org.dEfENSE , from page 15
rEcruiT , from page 15Commit attends Vols game
Muschamp
