VOLUME 106 ISSUE 4 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Swapping sites offer alternatives to new textbooks
Students look online for class materials, pg 5.  
Students dedicate time to nonproﬁ  t in Haiti
They aim to provide education and aid to victims, pg 9. RecSports encourages involvement
Event will provide information about sports, 
clubs and ﬁ  tness groups, pg. 5. 
92/75Florida quarterback 
John Brantley 
said he is 
always nervous
 in games. 
We’re taking him 
at his word.
 See Column, Page 21
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 10CLASSIFIEDS 16
CROSSWORD  17SPORTS 21 Dana Burke / Alligator
  Midnight Ride
Gainesville resident Josh Dissell, 26, rides his bike down University Avenue. For bike safety tips, see full story page 5.  
STUDENT GOVERNMENT  ESTEE BECK
 Alligator Writer
  Gainesville says goodbye to yet another 
big-name business as its last Albertsons plans 
to close its doors for good later this year.
  After 35 years, the grocery store on 2323 NW 13th St. plans to close around Oct. 8, said Christine Wilcox, spokeswoman for Albert-sons LLC. 
  The ofﬁ  cial date depends on the response 
to liquidation sales, which are scheduled to begin around Aug. 31.
  Speciﬁ  c information on liquidation dis-counts wasn’t available, but customers can expect a signiﬁ  cant decrease in prices, she said.
  Wilcox said she didn’t know exactly when 
ofﬁ  cials noticed the Gainesville location struggling, but there is a way to track such decline so they can make improvements.   Marketing or promotional strategies are 
sometimes revamped, but those strategies don’t always work.
  “When we determine that a store isn’t 
proﬁ  table, we take every step we can to turn it around,” Wilcox said. “Sometimes we’re successful and sometimes we’re not, and when we’re not, we have to make tough deci-sions.” Final Albertsons grocery store in Gainesville to be closed� PATIENTS RECEIVE EKG 
TESTS AND ARE SEEN BY A 
PHYSICIAN.
ERIN JESTER
 Alligator Writer 
  
  Researchers have found a 
new, more effective way of test-ing patients who come to the emergency room with chest pain.
  The new method will be used 
in the Chest Pain Emergency Room that opened at Shands on Wednesday.
  Usually, when a patient ar-
rives at the ER with chest pain, he or she is screened for im-mediate health risks, such as a heart attack, said Dr. Preeti Jois, a clinical assistant professor of ER medicine and medical direc-tor of the Chest Pain ER.
  If the patient is determined to have low to moderate risk of a heart attack, a doctor prescribes an outpatient stress test, and it is the patient’s responsibility to return to the hospital for more tests.
  Before, the problem was that 
only about one in three patients who were prescribed a stress test were returning, said Dr. David Winchester, an assistant profes-sor of cardiovascular medicine and director of cardiovascular services for the Chest Pain ER.
  Now, if a patient comes to the 
Shands ER complaining of chest pain, he or she will receive an EKG test within 10 minutes and will then be evaluated by a phy-sician.
  If the patient does not have 
a high risk of heart attack, he or she will be moved to the Chest Pain ER.  Chest Pain ER 
opens at Shands
  
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
Thirsty students need no longer carry cash on campus.
A project to add credit, debit and Gator 1 Card readers to 
200 vending machines on campus began Monday.
In addition to the added convenience, students using 
their Gator 1 vending accounts at the machines will receive a 12-percent discount.
“We know that every little bit helps, especially when you’re a student,” said Kristine Hinck, spokeswoman for PepsiCo.
UF Business Services and Student Government worked 
with PepsiCo to implement these changes.
Under the university’s agreement with PepsiCo, UF sells only Pepsi products on campus.
Hinck said UF is the ﬁ  rst campus in the U.S. to undergo 
this vending machine conversion, but Pepsi hopes to expand the service to other universities.
If the card readers are successful in this trial run, Student 
Body President Ben Meyers said they will be installed on every vending machine on campus.
“I think, in general, everyone’s moving toward a cashless 
society,” he said, “so I think it will be very well-received and very widely used.”  PepsiCo adding card readers to on-campus vending machinesSEE SHANDS, PAGE 8
SEE ALBERTSONS, PAGE 8Liquidation sales scheduled to begin around Aug. 31
“We know that every little bit helps, especially 
when you’re a student.”
Kristine Hinck
spokeswoman for PepsiCo.News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 4 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Justin Hayes,
  Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Sarah Platt,
  Ally Russo, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Alexander SilvaThe Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or e-mail editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
“Back to Business” Resource 
Fair
Today, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.Matherly CourtyardStop by for information cov-ering leadership, career ser -
vices, study abroad, commu-nity service, prizes and more. Meet the professors of the Warrington College of Business Administration. Visit tinyurl.com/Back2Business for more information. All majors wel-come.
RecSports Extravaganza
Today, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.Southwest Recreation Center  This event features complimen-tary massages, fitness demon-strations, sport clubs exposi-tions, competitions, giveaways and free food. Meet the sport clubs captains, learn about each club’s practice schedule and find out more specific informa-tion on the club.
Outdoor Adventure Club
 Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.
Interested in kayaking, hiking, climbing, or anything else out-doors?The Outdoor Adventure Recreation club is a great way to meet other like-minded stu-dents, learn useful new skills, and go on cheap trips around Florida, the Southeast, and Latin America. The club has trips all semester.Visit ufadventure.com to see the full schedule and sign up for the mailing list. The first meet-ing of the semester will be held in Yon Hall, directly across from the Florida Pool. 
RUB Entertainment Presents: 
Upright Citizens Brigade 
Touring Company For Freethe Board of Trustees Sept. 6 now 
provides for: 
- 3 percent raises for all staff em-
ployees (TEAMS and USPS) — at all salary levels — who were af-fected by the new 3 percent man-datory retirement contribution; the salary increases will be effective Sept. 16
- No change in the biweekly ac-
crual rate for vacation leave and no changes to existing December per -
sonal leave days or holidays 
- A cap on accrued vacation leave 
at 352 hours a year for TEAMS and Executive Service employees 
- A cap on accrued vacation at 
240 hours a year for USPS employ-ees (no change)
- A cap of 200 hours (five weeks) 
on the cash payout of accrued va-cation hours for all staff upon leav-ing the university
The previous proposed chang-
es to accrual and caps of vacation leave for faculty have been with-drawn and will not go forward with this regulation. Raises and other proposed benefits changes for faculty and any associated sal-ary increases will be discussed this fall and could go into effect as early as January, pending approval by the Board of Trustees in December and subsequent collective bargain-ing agreements.Today , 7:30 p.m. Reitz Union Rion Ballroom  Hailing from The Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre, the most renowned comedy the-atre and school in the nation, the UCB TourCo cast is hand-picked from the best improv comedians in New York and Los Angeles. UF’s own Theatre Strike Force will be opening for this event. Come out and enjoy comedy both domestic and imported. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.org. Please model your submis-sions after above eventsImproperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
Wednesday’s edition of the 
Alligator included an article on UF’s proposal to provide 3 per -
cent raises to staff employees. It contained multiple errors regard-ing a new proposal to address these raises.
To correct and clarify the main 
points of the proposal, the follow-ing information is taken from a memo sent out Tuesday by Paula Fussell, vice president of human resources, to university faculty and staff:
The plan to be considered by THUNDER
STORMS
92/75THUNDER
STORMS
95/76THUNDER
STORMS
93/76SUNNY
95/75THUNDER
STORMS
94/74MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
 THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
Daniel Phillips / Alligator
Members of the Florida Young Naturists train for the clothing-optional 5K on 
Saturday. The 5K will be held at Sunsport Gardens in Loxahatchee, Fla., near West Palm Beach. Registration is $20 for students. MELINDA CARSTENSEN
Alligator Staff Writer 
When computer science and engineering senior Bryan 
Dubno was a freshman, he felt overwhelmed by UF’s large 
campus.
That’s why when he wanted to create an iPhone app in 
October 2009, he decided to make one for freshmen seeking the same UF resources he was. Those resources included a UF map, a UF-related event calendar, news and a directory of professors. Since then, more than 14,000 people have down-loaded the free app, called UFmobile, Dubno said. 
Last Thursday, Dubno released an updated version of UF-
mobile, introducing a class schedule importer, a Facebook-wall-like feature and augmented reality, which allows users to aim their devices’ cameras at buildings to identify them. About 5,000 users updated the original app, and about 1,200 new users downloaded the new version, he said.
Fifth-year mechanical engineering major Victor McCor -
mack downloaded the original and new versions, but he said the wall and building identifier are his favorite features.
“It’s everything I need for being a UF student in one app,” 
McCormack said. 
UFmobile can be downloaded on the iPhone, iPad and 
iTouch. For more information, visit www.nomtasticapps.
com.Student creates iPhone app to help navigate on campus
� THE NATURIST EVENT WILL BE HELD 
SATURDAY NEAR WEST PALM BEACH.
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
Want to run a 5K and get a perfect tan at the 
same time?
The first-ever clothing-optional run in South 
Florida will be held at Sunsport Gardens Natur-
ist Resort in Loxahatchee on Saturday.
The event will be hosted by Aqua Sun, an 
event company started earlier this year by Santa Fe College student Daniel Phillips, 25. He said he expects 65 to 80 runners. 
There will be a pre-race registration party at 
Run and Roll in West Palm Beach on Thursday evening. The party and the race are both open to the public. 
The registration fees are $20 for students, $25 
for the public before Thursday’s registration party, and $30 the day of the race. Participants can register online at aquasunevents.com.
Aqua Sun will donate a portion of the pro-
ceeds from the 5K to Vita Nuda and Florida Young Naturists, two Florida naturist groups.
Phillips, a naturist, said he started Aqua Sun 
because he wanted to organize some runs and volleyball games, and it’s easier to get attention for those events with a company name.  
“We want to let people know that there are 
naturists out there who aren’t old and crippled,” he said. “We’re young and we do fun activi-ties.” 
“Not only can you not knock it till you try 
it, but it’s an experience that will pretty much change your perception of a lot of things,” Phil-lips said. “It’ll make you never want to wear a swimsuit ever again.” 
Marion Paige, a UF philosophy and religion 
junior, is a member of Florida Young Naturists and has been trying to start an official Naturist Gators club with Phillips on campus. However, the club can’t get going without a faculty ad-viser.
Paige said she has participated in numerous 
Florida Young Naturists and Vita Nuda events.
“It’s more about not having to hide anything 
about yourself,” Paige said. “You see everybody for who they are. They’re all equally vulnerable and equally open.” Runners to get naked for 5K“It’s everything I need for being a UF student 
in one app.” 
Victor McCormack
mechanical engineering majortechnology
 THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Brett Le Blanc/Alligator Staff
The defaced sculpture “Let’s Just Skip the Meeting” stands at the in-
tersection of Main Street and Northwest Second Avenue on Wednes-day morning. Gainesville Police are still looking for the person who sloshed the sculpture with yellow paint earlier this week.
� ADMISSION IS FREE.
ESTEE BECK
Alligator Writer
Musicians, storytellers and belly dancers will  
take Florida Museum of Natural History visitors on 
a journey through sounds and music from around the world Friday.
“Celebration of Sound” begins at 6 p.m. at the 
museum, located on campus at Hull Road and Southwest 34th Street. All community members are welcome, and event admission is free. 
The event complements one of the museum’s 
exhibits called “Wild Music: Sounds and Songs of Life,” which opened in May and runs until Jan. 2.
Tickets ranging from $5.50 to $8 to the Wild Mu-
sic exhibit will be available at the event. The whole museum will be open, and those who purchase exhibit tickets receive complimentary entry to the museum’s Butterfly Rainforest, which will remain open that night.
The exhibit guides visitors to consciously experi-
ence sounds heard in natural and human environ-ments, like rainforests or cities, and then educates them on how those sounds influence music and culture around the world. 
“It illustrates that sound and music are all around 
us,” said Leeann Bright, marketing and public rela-tions coordinator at the museum. 
Jazz trio Deezy Pete will perform at “Celebration 
of Sound,” along with Native American storyteller Sarah Eiland and the Ethnic Dance Expressions Per -
formance Ensemble. 
Event guests will have the opportunity to join 
the dance ensemble in a belly-dancing tutorial and will also get to make their own maracas,  Bright said. 
Tiffany Ireland, the event’s coordinator and the 
museum’s education assistant, said it’s exciting to have such a variety of dance and music perfor -
mances in one event. 
Arguably the most beneficial quality of “Cel-
ebration of Sound” and the Wild Music exhibit, Ire-land said, is that it offers an experience for all ages.
“It’s one of the few exhibits where truly any age 
will have fun,” Ireland said. “You will learn some-thing, but you might not realize it.”Museum celebrates world musicBENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Money earned from selling an unwanted textbook can 
sometimes equal the cost of a few Ramen noodle dinners.
But textbook-swapping websites allow students to exchange 
textbooks from past classes for ones they actually need.
“Buying textbooks sucks,” said Jonathan Simkin, founder of 
www.swoopthat.com. “You either go to the bookstore and you 
pay more, or you look for hours online.”
Simkin’s website shows a textbook’s sale price and that 
book’s price on Amazon and chegg.com. Students can also see what other students in the area have spent on the same book.
“Because we integrate directly with course schedules, we 
know what you need,” he said.Simkin said it typically takes 10 minutes to buy all the books 
needed for a semester.
Another textbook-swapping website, www.bookmooch.
com, could appeal to students who prefer browsing from an international pool of textbooks.
The nonprofit textbook-swap website ships globally and 
can be viewed in seven different languages. 
“It can really save you money when you are trying to make 
a book collection,” said Teresa Malango, who works in media relations for the website.
Nevertheless, some students still seek the meat-and-pota-
toes version of buying books: going to the bookstore.
Environmental science senior Stephanie Kurtz said she has 
never bought a textbook online.
“I know it’s cheaper [buying textbooks online],” Kurtz said. 
“I just like the convenience of being able to go into the book-store and get everything I need.” 
She said she fears that if she orders a textbook online then 
drops the class she will be stuck with having to pay for it — that is, if she gets the textbook at all. 
Kurtz said some of her friends have ordered textbooks on-
line and were sent the wrong ones or never even received them at all. 
Biology senior Nina Manno said Amazon is her first choice 
when she goes shopping for textbooks.
“I buy what I can online,” she said, “but I buy the rest in the 
bookstore.”Textbook-swapping sites offer alternatives to buying new books
Some are integrated directly with course schedules
ON CAMPUS
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
The UF RecSports staff is hosting an event 
to promote student involvement from 6 p.m. 
to 8 p.m. today at the Southwest Recreation Center.Staff will offer demonstrations of boot 
camp, fitness classes and small-group train-ing classes. Intramural sports competitions, club expositions, chair massages and Lake Wauburg activities will also be showcased.
Event organizers expect at least 2,000 stu-
dents to attend the RecSports Extravaganza, according to marketing coordinator Jessica Gates. The same number of students attend-ed last year.
The event is good for new students who 
want to get involved and learn what RecS-ports has to offer, said Doug Burkhart, grad-uate assistant for intramural sports.He said Extravaganza will be more of a 
social event than an athletic competition.
“It’s more or less just sampling each 
thing, but there are a ton of people here for it,” he said.
For more information, visit recsports.ufl.
edu and click the Extravaganza tab. Southwest Rec hosting event to promote student involvement“Because we integrate directly with course 
schedules, we know what you need.” 
Jonathan Simkin
swoopthat.com Founder
CAITLIN HARTLEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students, new and old, should 
not just be focused on when and 
where their classes are, but more along the lines of how they will be getting there, said Dekova T. Batey, the Bicycle/Pedestrian Program Coordinator for City of Gainesville Public Works. 
Batey said the program is “like 
a clearing house for bicycle and walking safety awareness.”
The program puts on commu-
nity events to teach bicycle and pedestrian safety and promotes bicycling in the community. “On campus, it’s an isolated situation where you’re more prone to ride a bicycle and get around in a very convenient manner. New students need to be aware of walking and bicycle safety because those are main modes of transportation on a campus,” Batey said. 
Batey said drivers and cyclists 
believe they know safety regula-tions. 
He said not all realize all the 
rules of sharing the road.  
Mike Heneks, 18, a freshman 
majoring in accounting at UF, said he knows all there is to know about bicycling safety. 
“You have the same rights as 
cars. You have to obey speed limits and stop signs,” Heneks said.  Correct. But he is forgetting an-
other huge factor when it comes to sharing the road.
“There is a lot of singular fo-
cus,” Batey said.   
“A lot of the time you have peo-
ple that are driv-
ing automobiles, and they don’t really consider other people who are not in that same mode.”
Caitlin Mc-
Daniel, a 19-year-
old electrical engineering major at UF, said she’s experienced with bicycling to her classes. She had a little advice for new freshman cy-clists:
“Be really careful and avoid 
biking around a lot of people. I’ve seen it go very bad for all people involved. Make sure you know where you’re supposed to be bik-ing, especially at intersections,” she said. 
She admits, though, that she 
does not follow all safety guide-lines.  
“When I’m off campus, I always 
do, but on campus, I’m pretty bad about wearing a helmet,” she said. 
McDaniel is not the only to not 
wear helmets. Heneks was on the same page, saying that when he rode a bike he rarely wore one, ei-ther.Even though several students at 
UF do not wear helmets while bik-ing, according to Batey, they are not breaking any rules. 
“In Florida, the law is that if 
you’re under 16, you are required to wear a helmet, so its optional for those who are 16 and above,” he said.
Batey and the Bicycle/Pedes-
trian Program still recommends helmets, “no matter what age.” 
“Now we have a lot of distract-
ed driving. People are using cell-phones and all types of electronic devices while they’re driving, and that distraction may cause those thinking they’re behaving safely to still be hit.”  
Program teaches bicycle, pedestrian safety in community
Batey
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Editorial
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR59% YES
41% NOToday’s question: Would  you participate in a clothing-
optional 5K?
Wednesday’s question: Would you use 
the new flight service to travel between Gainesville and Miami?
68 TOTAL VOTESTHURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Guest columnHeads in the Sand
Beachgoers: Beware 
of truckin’ lifeguards
Heading to Daytona Beach soon? Bring a helmet. 
This lesson was unfortunately learned by Erin 
Joynt, 33, of Wichita, Kan., when a patrol truck 
ran over her head while she was sunbathing on Daytona Beach. 
Yes, that’s right. Her head. Was she wearing a beige swim suit while laying on a 
beige towel? She wasn’t buried in the sand with her head sticking out just enough to breathe. 
According to reports, this poor woman was minding 
her own business, catching some rays, when a beach patrol pickup truck ran over her head while making a U-turn. 
The driver of the truck, a 21-year-old lifeguard, said he 
didn’t see her. According to Volusia County officials, this particular watchman of  beachgoers had a “spotless re-cord.” 
This makes the rest of this story all the more unusual. This is not some freak accident that only happens once 
every 10 years. 
Sunbathers have been run over by patrol vehicles three 
times in the last year. This is the sixth incident since 2003. 
Signs in the area should read: “Beware of undertow, jel-
lyfish, stingrays and recklessly driven patrol vehicles.”
The driver of the vehicle might have had a spotless re-
cord, but it begs the question whether or not this is some game played by local lifeguards. 
Five points if you hit their torso. Ten points if you can 
run over their head. 
In yesterday’s editorial, we mentioned a plan to ban kay-
aks and canoes in a local spring, which some officials be-lieved might be a danger to swimmers. 
At least swimmers can dunk their heads underwater.How hard is it to become a certified beach patrol life-
guard? 
A license proving you can save people from drowning is 
required, but a driver’s license must be optional. 
Dave Byron, a spokesman for the county, said officials 
will consider proposals to ban large vehicles from driving on the beach due to visibility problems. 
It is ironic when the supposed protectors of our safety 
end up causing us more harm than protection. So much for being a lifeguard. 
The lifeguards in these patrol vehicles of death obviously 
did not mean to harm anyone. However, the county should really reconsider beach policies concerning vehicles on the beach. Maybe they can designate certain “No Sunbathing” areas or at least signs reading: “Warning: Patrol Vehicles Drive Past This Point.” 
Luckily, Joynt is alive and in stable condition.
Marine submerses himself in war culture
My nephew sleeps in what we yoga doers call the 
“corpse” pose. He is on his back, legs straight out and hands folded to the center of his chest. As a 
kid, he slept in all kinds of weird positions. But during a recent visit with him in Miami, I noticed that he has drasti-cally changed his sleeping habits.
We went swimming for about an hour the other day, 
and I asked him how things are going. He responded with a series of stories that I sort of understood but were full of so many military acronyms I didn’t bother to ask for definitions. He was so excited to share his stories from the front line in Afghanistan. As a corporal in the U.S. Ma-rines, he is also an ammunition specialist with extensive training operating the M777 howitzer.
He has notebooks lying all around his mother’s home. 
They’re those small spiral flip notebooks you might keep a grocery list on or set by the phone for messages.  He tells me he uses about four of them a day on the job. He writes ammo info and coordinates and other mystery letters and numbers in them. 
He has an 8-year-old daughter who was born when he 
was 18. He is now 26 and trying to do right by her. He re-cently had her name legally changed to his last name. That way, he can make her his benefactor “just in case.” 
In the pool, he was telling me of plans to get housing 
on his base at Camp Lejeune, N.C. That way, his daughter, Cadence, can spend summers with him. During the rest of the year, she lives with her grandparents in Ohio, Monday through Friday, and then with her mom on weekends. She sees her dad once or twice a year. 
My nephew tells me there is a tattoo tradition among 
Marines designed to send any captors or enemies a final message upon capture or death. Some bodies have “The undesirable doing the unimaginable for the ungrateful,” running across their chests. Another favorite is “Death Be-fore Dishonor.” 
My nephew was excited to share his latest tattoo with 
me, which he claims will outshine any of those his fellow Marines have. It’s so unique that his tattoo art-
ist had to look up what one looks like on the Internet to sketch its likeliness.
There is a string leading from 
his big toe that attaches to a 4-by-2-inch tag that bears “NAME: DJ SCHAEFFER” and then has empty lines run-ning from “TIME:,” “DATE EX:” and a message “AT-TACH TO TOE.”
The “DATE EX:________” means “date expired,” as in 
the date he might die. 
It seems a little extreme, but I guess that his how Ma-
rines live. He tells me, “I have seen some things, Aunt Suzette.” And then no specific story follows, after which he looks down, breaking eye contact. It’s like he can’t put what he witnesses into words. He did tell me his buddy just lost a foot and how weird it is to see an empty seat or bed in the barracks that someone was actually sleeping in the day before.
Then he proclaims that he would like to serve in Af-
ghanistan at least three more times, because upon the fourth he’ll be known as a “Senior Salt Dog.” That doesn’t mean anything official, like a promotion or a raise; it’s just something he strives for to up the competition in the bar-racks.
I hugged my nephew goodbye and noticed he had 
bulked up in his spare time in the desert with 5-inch-high biceps. 
I headed back to Gainesville, and, for the first time, I 
wasn’t sure if or when I would see him again. Each year he serves he becomes embedded deeper and deeper into the culture and language of war and Marine life. 
I can only hope he remains safe and anchored, retain-
ing some of the laid-back “go with the flow” nature he had as a kid and that one day, he’ll find words to describe these “things” he has seen.
Suzette Cook is a master’s student in the UF College of 
Journalism and Communications. She received her undergrad-uate degree from UF in 1990.
Suzette Cook
Speaking Out THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Letter to the Editor
Meatless Mondays benefit communities
In response to your Tuesday column 
“Meatless Mondays Are Vital for Creating a 
Healthier Campus,” I would like to compli-ment Jared Misner for his incredible work toward bettering this planet for all the crea-tures on it. 
Misner’s and the Gator Dining Service’s 
efforts are paying off, and with Meatless Mondays now at UF and sweeping college campuses across the country, thousands of students are being introduced to a greener way of eating through vegetarian cuisine. 
A recent study by Aramark, a leading food service provider, concluded that one in four college students seek out vegan options when they sit down to eat. 
UF is now in the unique position to lead 
the way for schools nationwide by con-tinuing to expand their Meatless Mondays program and removing meat from campus menus. 
United Nations scientists have deter-
mined that raising chickens, pigs and other animals for slaughter generates about 40 percent more greenhouse gasses than all the cars, SUVs, trucks and planes in the world combined. Most students are also horrified to dis-
cover that chickens have their beaks cut off when they’re only days old, that male pig-lets are castrated, and that cows are branded and de-horned — all without any painkill-ers. 
These terrified animals are often skinned 
and dismembered while still conscious as well. If these kinds of abuses were inflicted upon cats or dogs, it would result in felony animal cruelty charges. 
Yet these practices are standard in an in-
dustry that refuses to make even the most basic improvements in the way animals are treated. 
Luckily, not only is going vegetarian 
the single greatest action that you can take for animals and the environment, it’s also the best choice that you can make for your health. 
With UF actively promoting vegetarian 
and vegan foods, cutting out the cruelty on campus has never been easier! For more in-formation, visit peta2.com to request a free vegetarian/vegan starter kit. 
Amelia Jensen
College Campaigns Assistant
peta2.com
As I enter my sophomore year, I already find myself 
swamped with homework. 
“How can this be?” asks my roommate as she sees 
me collapsing in my “501 French V erbs” dictionary . 
“I honestly don’t know,” I moan. The night continued, and I became more and more stressed. 
The daunting task of completing this first week  seemed almost impossible. 
The words in front of my eyes began swimming into each 
other, forming blobs of lines, not even resembling shadows of their old forms. 
I shook my head and found myself on Facebook. I noticed 
that I was missing a nice get-together with friends I hadn’t seen in several months. 
And that’s when it hit me. What am I doing? I’m staying at 
home, memorizing French verb conjugations and ignoring my friends. This is all on the second day of school. Does this sound normal to you? Yeah, it didn’t sound normal to me either. 
I’m writing this because in high school, I was always that one over-achieving student who annoyed everyone else in the class (to tell you the truth, I an-noyed myself as well). 
When I started my first year at 
UF, I noticed myself falling into the same pattern — all school and no play . 
It wasn’t until halfway through the semester that I finally 
realized how much I was missing. The few friends I made were talking about shows, events and campus groups they’d gone to. I had nothing to share. 
I remember a friend of mine last year telling me how she 
went to an 8:30 a.m. exam so hungover that the room was con-sistently spinning. She used the story as a cautionary tale; I viewed it with awe and wonder as I had never done anything so remotely daring. I was wasting my college years.
With this in mind, I began making a conscious effort to break 
out of my studious comfort zone. I started attending groups that I liked and started actually going out at night instead of holding myself in. In short, I broke free from my study chains. 
College is the precursor to “real life,” and it’s the only chance 
to truly explore the facets of your personality and interests. 
It is the one time you will find yourself with this many op-
portunities at your fingertips. 
It’s the one time in life where you’re allowed to follow a 
whim and not feel the heavy consequences of being spontane-ous. 
It’s the one time in life where you can stay up till 5 a.m. be-
cause you don’t have to wake up until 2 p.m. for a class. 
It’s the first few days of classes for goodness’ sake! Go out 
and explore your school and enjoy the Gainesville sunshine (or the frequent rain we’ve experienced). 
I don’t recommend going out and getting drunk every sin-
gle night, especially when you have an 8:30 a.m. exam the next day. However, realize that life isn’t so serious, because aren’t we all just talking monkeys on an organic spaceship floating through nothing? Have an excellent semester. 
Michela Martinazzi is a sophomore art history major at UF.Students should enjoy life and explore surroundings in collegeGuest column
Michela Martinazzi
Speaking OutThe store is one of three Albert-
sons in Florida scheduled to close, 
including one in Mount Dora and one in Tampa.
Two Texas locations will also 
close. Three more in the Lone Star State will be sold to H-E-B, a pri-vate, Texas-based supermarket. 
Albertsons closed its other 
Gainesville location in 2008, selling it to Publix. 
Albertsons LLC, formed in 2006, 
bought 660 surviving stores from Albertsons Inc. 
The remaining of the 2,400 prop-
erties were sold to SuperValu and CVS. 
The number of Albertsons na-
tionwide will be cut to 209 this year.
The store’s 88 employees were 
informed of the closing Friday.
Wilcox acknowledged this is a 
sensitive time for unemployment.
“The most important task right 
now is to communicate with our as-sociates,” Wilcox said.
She said options like severance 
packages and store transfers will be available to eligible employees who want to continue working with the company after the store closes.
The nearest Albertsons is in the 
Orlando area.UF student Josh Weinberg, an 
18-year-old biology major, was visiting the 13th Street location for the second time since his move to Gainesville. He doesn’t consider himself an Albertsons regular but liked its proximity to campus.
He said he wasn’t aware of the 
closing.
The news doesn’t come as a sur -
prise, though. He speculated the growth of superstores was to blame for Albertsons’ decline.
“Certainly the Walmart right 
there isn’t helpful,” said Weinberg, gesturing to the superstore in the neighboring shopping center.
He’s not sure where he’ll do his 
grocery shopping once the store closes. Maybe Sam’s Club, he said, which is just up the street at 2801 NW 13th St.
Other grocery stores in the area 
include family-owned Ward’s Su-permarket on 515 NW 23rd Ave., Save-A-Lot on 2605 NW 13th St., and a Publix a little further north at 3720 NW 13th St. 
Devout customer Donna Scott, 
45, of Gainesville, found out about the closing from an Albertsons em-ployee on a recent shopping trip.
Scott said she did all her shop-
ping at Albertsons when she lived in the Broward County area.
When she moved to Gainesville nearly 12 years ago, the 13th Street Albertsons was her staple.
She won’t go anywhere else for 
her shrimp and her steaks, because nobody else, she says, has prices like Albertsons. 
Scott said it seemed like the store 
was doing fine, and the news came as a shock. 
“I hate that they’re closing,” 
Scott said. “They’re going to be greatly missed.”8, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
Alex Catalano / Alligator
Albertsons, located at 2323 NW 13th St., has announced it is closing. It is the last store in Gainesville.
GROCERY , from page 1Gainesville Albertsons is one of three closing in Florida this yearTesting methods detect heart problems in 28 percent of patients
He or she will then be given a cardiac 
CT scan or another stress test and pro-
vided with information about what to do next.
The goals of the Chest Pain ER are to re-duce unnecessary hospital admissions and health care costs and to provide more ac-curate diagnoses and treatment to patients experiencing chest pain, Jois said.
“This is really a very unique unit in the 
Gainesville area that provides highly fo-cused, dedicated care,” she said.The new method of assessing patients 
detects heart problems in about 28 percent of people tested, up from 2 percent with the old method of testing, Winchester said. 
When potential problems are spotted 
early using technology such as CT scans, he said, patients are more likely to return for treatment.
ShAndS , from page 1 “This is really a very unique unit 
in the Gainesville area...”
Dr. Preeti Jois
Medical director of the Chest Pain ER� THE TRIP AFTER THE EARTH-
QUAKE INSPIRED THEM.
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
Twelve years after moving to 
Florida, UF senior Bertrhude Albert 
crossed country lines once again to return to her home — Haiti.  
It wasn’t the same country she 
remembered as a young child. A month before, on January 12, 2010, Haiti had been rocked by a 7.0-mag-nitude earthquake.  
“It never struck me what was go-
ing on in my country until I went back,” Albert said. “When I re-turned, I knew that my future was going to be Haiti.”
Her father, Isaac, has run an or -
phanage in Haiti called the H.O.P .E. Center for a decade, but his daugh-ter was also inspired by the trip to offer her own help to the people of her home country.
“Being face-to-face with this pov-
erty … It was engraved in my heart from that point on,” Albert said.
Albert helped organize a mission 
trip to Haiti for 19 UF students dur -
ing spring break.
From January 13 to March 1, the 
group raised more than $23,000 for the trip and other projects, Albert said.
Albert and her roommate, mas-
ter’s student Priscilla Zelaya, decid-ed to start the nonprofit organization Projects for Haiti Inc. after returning to Florida. 
“When we came back, without 
a doubt, we had to do something,” Zelaya said. “There’s so much hope in Haiti.”
The Christian-based organiza-
tion supports projects to aid people in Haiti, such as the children at Al-bert’s father’s orphanage. 
Projects for Haiti became an offi-
cial nonprofit in the state of Florida in July.
The organization supports an 
English Association program that provides  education materials for 16 Haitians who meet once a week to practice their English-speaking abilities together.
The organization also tutors 
people who can’t speak any English once a week to give back to their community.
“I hope that after this year, their 
English proficiency grows tremen-dously and their community grows tremendously ,” Albert said. 
She sees Projects for Haiti as a 
call for young people, Christians and Haitians to help the struggling people of Haiti. 
“Our country needs us,” she said 
of herself and other Haitian people in the U.S. “Let’s step up and make a difference.”
Amanda DiLorenzo, who went 
on the spring break to Haiti in March, said she was amazed by the level of poverty many of the people she met dealt with every day . 
While she was in Haiti, she met a 
young girl who came in for medical treatment. The girl had a hernia the size of a toy football on her stom-ach.
“When you go to hug her, she 
would scream (from the pain),” DiLorenzo said. 
They gave her pain medication, 
but once that ran out, DiLorenzo knew she would be back where she started — wanting to be hugged but pained by physical contact. 
“My heart was breaking,” she 
said. 
DiLorenzo, a UF sophomore and 
treasurer of Projects for Haiti, was inspired by her experiences to take a course in Creole. 
Joshua Horton, a 26-year-old UF 
graduate student in computer en-gineering, also went on the spring break trip and was amazed by how kind and hard-working the kids at the orphanage were. 
“You realize you don’t need to 
have all the stuff that we do in or -
der to be happy ,” he said. “When I left the orphanage, I didn’t want to leave the kids. I need to go back.”
Rokeshia Ashley , a 20-year-old 
UF junior, is a McNair scholar like Albert. 
She, Albert and another McNair 
scholar visited Haiti in August. 
Ashley wanted to visit Haiti after 
living in the “Little Haiti” section of Miami. 
She wanted to see how the cul-
tures of those two places compared to each other. “I mean, aside from the bugs and 
aside from the heat and humidity, I loved it,” she said of her trip to Haiti. “I felt welcome there.”
The three students taught English 
to Haitians during their visit. Flu-ency in English is a valuable asset in Haiti that can help people get hired for a variety of jobs, Albert said. 
“The kids wanted to learn Eng-
lish,” Ashley said. “They want an education, and it’s not readily acces-sible for them.”
Albert will graduate this year, 
but Projects for Haiti will continue with her at the helm. She hopes to eventually earn a Ph.D. in Latin American studies with an emphasis on Haiti. Then she could teach at the college level and continue to visit Haiti a few times each year and run her nonprofit. 
“I just want to empower Haitians 
to go out and make a living, to cope with the hand that they’ve been dealt,” she said. 
When she was younger, Albert 
dreamed of making a high salary . Now she won’t give up on the tiny Caribbean country.
“My conscience won’t let me; my 
heart won’t let me; my body won’t let me,” she said. “I’ll spend my last dollar in Haiti. That’s fine with me.” THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Courtesy to the Alligator
McNair Scholars Jasmine Wright and Bertrhude Albert pose with orphans at the H.O.P.E. Center in 
Haiti.
Students start nonprofit to provide aid, education in Haiti
NATIONAL
ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON —There was a crack in the Washington 
Monument, and capstones were broken at the National Ca-
thedral. In the District of Columbia suburbs, some people stayed in shelters because of structural concerns at their apartment buildings.
A day after the East Coast’s strongest earthquake in 67 
years, inspectors assessed the damage and found that most problems were minor. But the shaking raised questions about whether this part of the country, with its older archi-tecture and inexperience with seismic activity, is prepared for a truly powerful quake.
The 5.8 magnitude quake felt from Georgia north to 
Canada prompted swift inspections of many structures Wednesday, including bridges and nuclear plants. An accu-rate damage estimate could take weeks, if not longer. And many people will not be covered by insurance.
In a small Virginia city near the epicenter, the entire 
downtown business district was closed. School was can-celed for two weeks to give engineers time to check out cracks in several buildings.
At the 555-foot Washington Monument, crews found a 
4-inch crack late Tuesday in the monument’s top. The dam-age was discovered during a visual inspection by helicopter and cannot be seen from the ground.
The monument, by far the tallest structure in the nation’s 
capital, was to remain closed indefinitely. It has never been damaged by a natural disaster, including earthquakes in Virginia in 1897 and New York in 1944, said Bill Line, a Na-tional Park Service spokesman.Tourists arrived at the monument Wednesday morning 
only to find out they couldn’t get near it. A temporary fence was erected in a wide circle about 120 feet from the flags that surround its base. Walkways were blocked by metal barriers manned by security guards.
“Is it really closed?” a man asked the clerk at the site’s 
bookstore.
“It’s really closed,” said the clerk, Erin Nolan. Advance 
tickets were available for purchase, but she cautioned against buying them because it’s not clear when the monu-ment will open.
“This is pretty much all I’m going to be doing today,” 
Nolan said.
Tuesday’s quake was centered about 40 miles northwest 
of Richmond, 90 miles south of Washington and 3.7 miles underground. In the nearby town of Mineral, Va., Michael Leman knew his Main Street Plumbing & Electrical Supply business would need — at best — serious and expensive repairs.
At worst, it could be condemned. The façade had be-
come detached from the rest of the building, and daylight was visible through a 4- to 6-inch gap that opened between the front wall and ceiling.
“We’re definitely going to open back up,” Leman said. 
“I’ve got people’s jobs to look out for.”
Leman said he is insured, but some property owners might not be so lucky.
The Insurance Information Institute said earthquakes are 
not covered under standard U.S. homeowners or business insurance policies, although supplemental coverage is usu-ally available.
The institute says coverage for other damage that may 
result from earthquakes, such as fire and water damage from burst gas or water pipes, is provided by standard ho-meowners and business insurance policies in most states. Cars and other vehicles with comprehensive insurance would also be protected.
The U.S. Geological Survey classified the quake as Alert 
Level Orange, the second-most serious category on its four-level scale. Earthquakes in that range lead to estimated loss-es between $100 million and $1 billion.
In Culpeper, Va., about 35 miles from the epicenter, walls 
had buckled at the old sanctuary at St. Stephen’s Episcopal Church, which was constructed in 1821 and drew worship-pers including Confederate Gens. Robert E. Lee and J.E.B. Stuart. Heavy stone ornaments atop a pillar at the gate were shaken to the ground. A chimney from the old Culpeper Baptist Church built in 1894 also tumbled down.
At the Washington National Cathedral, spokesman Rich-
ard Weinberg said the building’s overall structure remains sound and damage was limited to “decorative elements.”
Massive stones atop three of the four spires on the build-
ing’s central tower broke off, crashing onto the roof. At least one of the spires is teetering badly, and cracks have appeared in some flying buttresses.
Repairs were expected to cost millions of dollars — an 
expense not covered by insurance.
Monuments, buildings found damaged after Virginia quake
“We’re definitely going to open back up.”
Michael Leman
Business OwnertheAvenue    THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
The return of the Avenue
Welcome back Avenuers! We’ve whipped up a fresh 
batch of this week’s hottest entertainment news just for you. Questions or comments about our new vibe? Email us at abanko@alligator.org. Twit Pick
@danecook: I have a date with one of my stalkers 
tonight. Trying to figure out what I want to wear that goes with blood.  See page 14 for a debate of the sexes on the sticky situation of juggling relationships. Is it wrong?  
DIANA LOPEZ 
Avenue Contributing Writer
After spitting continuous, freestyle rap 
for a record-shattering nine hours, 18 min-
utes and 22 seconds in April, it became clear that Chiddy Bang was a force not to be reck-oned with. 
The electro hip-hop duo, formed by 
Chidera “Chiddy” Anamege, 19, and Noah “Xaphoon Jones” Beresin, 19, made waves on the music scene last year with their popular single, “Opposite of Adults,” and earned a spot in the Guinness Book of World Records for the longest freestyle and con-tinuous rap. Tonight, the duo will take their talents to the Florida Theatre of Gainesville in the Never Growing Up Tour, presented by Party Degree, beginning at 8 p.m. 
Anamege and Beresin are shaping a new 
musical frontier where the lines of hip-hop, indie and electronic music are integrating in astounding ways.
Opening the door for further experimen-
tation, the two just released a mixtape titled “Peanut Butter and Swelly” that is available for free online.
The youth-orientated feel of the duo 
stems from the Philly-based pair’s expe-riences and personalities, said Anamege, who comes from a Nigerian family.
Growing up in Newark, N.J., Anamege 
said the city was his heart. 
“That’s where I learned it all,” he said. 
“You know, my style, where I learned to do my thing and spontaneously rap — spur-of-the-moment-type shit — and come up with rhymes.”
Anamege then went to boarding school 
in Massachusetts where he was eventually kicked out. He then finished two years of high school in Pennsylvania and soon after attended Drexel University in Philadelphia, where the fateful meeting between the duo that morphed Chiddy Bang would take place. 
Chiddy Bang has remained faithful to 
the college scene, coming to Gainesville fresh off a concert at UCF in Orlando on Wednesday.
“I especially love doing shows for col-
lege kids,” Anamege said. “You guys know what’s up.”  
Tickets for tonight’s event are on sale 
online at chiddybanggainesville.eventbrite.com/VIP. 
Early-bird tickets are $20 and tickets for 
a Meet and Greet at midnight are on sale for $15. 
The Avenue’s Diana Lopez picked up the 
phone to chat with Chiddy — uncensored.
What have you been up to so far?“I’ve been doing a lot of traveling, com-
ing back from the UK. I’m in West Virginia right now getting ready to play this show.”
How did coming to Gainesville come 
about? I noticed it’s not listed with the of-ficial tour dates. Was it a secret concert for your fans in Gainesville?
“It wasn’t on the schedule, but it made 
sense to go. It’s really cool because we’ve never done a show in Gainesville or in Or -
lando, and it’s something that I’m looking forward to doing.”
Why is your latest mixtape out for 
free?
“We started off just giving out free mu-
sic, and that’s just the culture we find our -
selves in. Nowadays, instead of putting stuff out and charging people for it, me and Noah, we always thought it was the best thing ever to give out free music to our fans. Give out stuff that we think is a certain quality, stuff that’s dope. Cause that’s the way we build a fan base. That’s the way we interact. That’s our gift to them. We haven’t even really dropped the official album. So people keep asking us when are we going to drop that record, cause we’re working on it. Working on putting the finishing touches on it. In the meantime, we’re going to give you guys a free mixtape, something to give to the fans to keep them engaged and keep them busy and give us something to hold on to until we come out with the official first release.”
Congratulations on breaking the world 
record for longest freestyle! Tell me about it.
“It was really MTV that reached out to 
us to do it. My manager said, ‘MTV is doing this new online music awards show, and they want to have a piece of the show go-ing around you trying to break the world record for longest freestyle. Do you think you can do it?’ And I was like, well, I mean, I’d never freestyled for more than an hour at that time, and I didn’t really know how it was going to go, but I knew that I could freestyle, and I said, ‘Well you know, I’ll take a crack at it.’ MTV had all these contingency plans because it was a livestream, and they were like, ‘What happens if he doesn’t do it, like gets to four hours and messes up? Like what are we going to do?’ They didn’t know if I could pull it off. As luck would have it, I was able to just coast right through it and make it happen. It was amazing. I started at 11:30 (a.m.) and went on until like 9 p.m. They flew me out to Vegas and it was just incredible. At the end of it, I’ll tell you what, though: I was exhausted. (Chiddy chuck-les.) It’s a little-known fact that I actually hold two of them: longest freestyle and the longest continued. So that was amazing.”
You were talking about how you can 
just keep going when you rap, but if there’s ever a time when it’s 2 a.m., you’re stuck in the studio and things aren’t working out, what  do you do to get going again?
“It really depends. When you’re in the 
studio, you want to be wide awake, you don’t want to be tired, you want to be well -rested. I have a long, long rest before I go in the studio so I can just go on for hours and hours and hours. But really it’s just us: me, Noah and a couple of our people just in the studio chilling, smoking blunts, just vibing. Two a.m. here, everyone’s exhausted — some people may pass out. You might find me in the corner smoking a blunt, just zon-ing out. That’s sort of like how we do it.”
What’s your favorite thing about tour -
ing so far?
“I think my favorite thing about touring 
is just being in a different place every day. It blows my mind that yesterday I was in the UK. I was playing a music festival with Eminem and Rihanna and all these crazy people, and it was like one of the dopest festivals I’ve been part of. It was called V Fest. You know, I had a great time doing that, and today I’m in West Virginia play-ing a show with Big Sean, Mac Miller and 
Courtesy to the Alligator / EMI Records
Chiddy Bang gained a mainstream following in 2010 with the single “Opposite of 
Adults,” which is set to a sample of MGMT’s “Kids.”Chiddy Bang brings the Never Growing Up Tour to Gainesville   
sEE CHIDDY, p AgE 13The show kicks off tonight at 8 p.m. at the Florida Theatre
“I especially love doing shows for 
college kids. You guys know what’s 
up.”
Chiddy
Rap Artist
 THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
In 1974, Rolling Stone magazine’s 
Jon Landau reviewed an up-and-coming musician’s gig for Bos-
ton’s the Real Paper. The emerging songster was Bruce Springsteen of who Landau penned, “I saw rock  'n' roll’s future, and its name is Bruce Springsteen.”
 Landau’s quote packs weight, 
and more than 35 years later, it’s time to dust it off.
Brian Fallon is best known as 
the front man of modern rock ‘n’ roll pioneers, The Gaslight Anthem. His latest project, an endeavor with friend and guitarist Ian Perkins, goes by the name of The Horrible Crowes. Dubbed by Fallon as his “nighttime music” project, The Hor -
rible Crowes’ debut full-length, “El-sie,” is a stark contrast to Gaslight’s revved-up style.
Creating a darker, moodier set-
ting and making even better use of his phenomenal vocal abilities, Fallon has crafted what is undoubt-edly the most fantastic record of 2011 thus far. His soul is unparal-leled in today’s watered-down in-dustry — exemplified best on songs like the emotional, crescendo-ing “Go Tell Everybody” and the wild “Mary Ann.” 
“Elsie” is a slow number that pre-
cedes the most Gaslight-esque song on the record and first single, “Be-hold the Hurricane.” The album’s s t a n d o u t comes in “ B l a c k Betty & the Moon,” as Fallon’s lyr -
icism and storytelling reach new h e i g h t s , comple-menting the rock-solid 
musicianship from he and Perkins.
“Elsie” will not go down as Brian 
Fallon’s best album. It'll be topped by future Gaslight Anthem releases. But what “Elsie” shows us, above anything else, is that Brian Fallon is one of the best songwriters on the planet. 
Unmatched poetry and subtle 
yet awe-inspiring musicianship characterize every corner of “Elsie,” giving the record a personality and swagger that we haven't seen from a release this year.
While it might be a weighty 
stance to throw around in the first column of the semester, I’m just go-ing to say it. I’m going all in with Brian Fallon. He has my vote for life. I will listen to whatever music he writes. Fallon is the best chance that rock ‘n’ roll has to remain relevant on a notable scale.
I have heard rock 'n' roll’s future. 
Its name is Brian Fallon.
ff the RecordThe bright future of rock 'n’ roll
Thomas Nassiff
Columnist
Twitter: @ThomasNassi ff Band: The Horrible 
Crowes
 Album: Elsie
 Release Date: Sept. 6
 Label: Side One Dummy 
Records Sounds Like: Nighttime 
music borrowing from Bruce Springsteen’s Darkness On the Edge of Town and earlier rock ’n’ roll and soul staples. Choice Cuts: Behold the 
Hurricane, Black Betty & the 
Moon
AMY STUART
Avenue Contributing Writer
The steamy, summer heat is in full force as 
we’re  rounding out the hottest month of the 
year, and it's important to know how to stay safe when sweating it out under the sun.
While working out can be relaxing, the 
heat Gainesville packs can be quite dangerous. There are plenty of ways to stay fit indoors, but if you enjoy an outside run, beware. 
Hydration should be your No. 1 goal. Rich-ard Alexander, manager of Sunflower Health Foods and the 2009 Mr. Gainesville Bodybuild-ing Champion, suggests drinking a gallon of water a day if you want to work out in the sun. Coconut water is also an option because it replenishes your electrolytes. Keeping your body stocked up on amino acids, proteins and even some multivitamins is ideal. 
You'll also need to gauge how long you'll 
be outdoors. According to Alexander, no one should be in the sun for more than an hour. The dangers of getting heat stroke are higher around noon, so exercising in the morning or late afternoon is ideal. 
“Some choose to work 
out at that time because they like their body heat to rise,” Alexander said, “But it’s safer to stick with the cool mornings.”
Holly Beard, a member 
of UF’s crew and drill team, 
said she is more aware of the risk factors in-volved with working out in high temperatures because often people don’t know they are ex-periencing heat exhaustion. If your body is low on sugars and water, it first goes through heat stress, which then leads to heat exhaustion. After this, you could experience heat stroke.
If you find yourself in this situation, the best 
thing to do is find a cool place indoors and lie down. If you are out in the sun, however, and you feel as if you are about to experience heat stroke, don’t sit down. Keep walking until you find somewhere cool to relax, even if it is just under a shady tree. 
Coping with exercising outdoors in the Gainesville heat
12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
 THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
3 Doors Down. You cover so much distance, and you 
get to touch the people. It’s always a fun time.”
You bring a lot of youthful energy to the rap 
scene, especially with the Never Growing Up tour that you’re on. Where did that theme come from?
“I think it just comes from our personality. We 
went to college our freshman year; it was full of a bunch of kids that a lot of the time were stressed out and studying. It was full of kids who had their heads crammed in their textbooks, studying for midterms and finals and shit like that. They didn’t really know how to just have fun. Us, we kind of just had a good time. 
We started our first shows, like the first shows we 
ever did, in, like, college basements. It would just be us and whoever wanted to come down to a frat house or a basement and wig out. We would just have fun; there was always a youthful energy to it. Just think about the kids who are really uptight and strictly focused on the textbook stuff. They don’t grasp the essence of college, like meeting people and experi-encing new things. When I met Noah, I was like, this is a new experience. He listens to a different type of music. We were in different crews and I embraced that new experience.”
How did your parents take it when you told them 
that you were dropping out and going on tour?
“They initially opposed it because they were like, 
‘What are you doing?’ And they’re all about academ-ics, and they’re Nigerian and they want you to be like a doctor or a lawyer and all that stuff. 
But once they saw that I wasn’t just f—ing my life 
away, and once they saw that there were some posi-tive returns with what was happening, they were progressing forward. They were like, ‘All right, I can deal with it. It’s not so bad.’ Now they’re like the proudest parents ever. In the end, it worked out.”
If you were an item in a kitchen, what would 
that item be?“I’d be like a butter knife. Like I’m not going to 
cut you, like, hard. If you piss me off, I’m not going to come at you. I’m a little smooth with it, but at the same time, don’t f—k with me. (Chiddy chuckles.) You can’t really do any damage with a butter knife, but just having the duality of cutting something, but not hurting you.”
Is there a certain food that you absolutely cannot 
live without?
“I like to eat like steak, you know what I’m say-
ing? I’m a big steak fan. A good dinner with a good steak — medium rare — is just like heaven. With mashed potatoes on the side — and gravy.”
In another interview, you said that if a guest ever 
visited your home, you would give them a drink that wasn’t very good. Could you elaborate on that?
“Oh shit, yeah yeah yeah —   it’s not a drink; 
you’re probably talking about the Kola nut. Yeah, it’s like really, really bitter. It’s an African tradition, 
so whenever someone comes to the house, you offer (him or her) a Kola, which is this nut which is really ... it’s not ... you know, an acquired taste. (Chiddy laughs.) It’s not like, ‘Hey, let me try this out and it’s go-ing to be the best thing ever.’ But that’s not the point — it’s about the 
culture, partaking in it and experiencing it.” 
Do you feel like some of your Nigerian roots are 
in your music?
“Xaphoon, he sampled some on some of our ear -
lier material. But I don’t know, I think the Nigerian roots, you’ll get that across if you meet me. I don’t think I present that in my music because I grew up here, in America. This is what I really know, but at the same time, if you meet me, you’ll be surprised with how aware I am of the culture and how aware I am of what goes on over there. I’m actually going over there on Oct. 15. I always go; I go every year. My parents came back from Nigeria, like, yesterday. They travel there often, and I always go to get in touch with my family.”The duo is paving new paths in modern music, blending genres  
chiddy , from page 10
courtesy to the Alligator / EMi Records
Anamege and Beresin’s latest single, “Mind Your Manners,” has 
more than 500,000 hits on YouTube. 
Maybe.  Juggling is an act that 
is justifiable for those who haven’t yet shared a mutu-
ally starry-eyed, let’s-be-monoga-mous moment with one who tickles their fancy.  While playing the field is a veiled safeguard for vulnerable heartstrings, it is also a delicate bal-ancing act that can turn ugly really 
quickly if everyone’s not on the same page.  
Do you want a relationship, 
or do you want to be unat-tached?  If you answered the latter, are you going to be cool if you run into a lust interest out with a different suitor?  Are 
you unaffected by an “easy” reputa-tion?  (Gainesville is S-M-A-L-L.)  
Are you secure enough to look 
someone in the eye and tell him or her you don’t want anything serious even though he or she is totally smit-ten? Are you confident enough to call it quits when you know you’re in over your head? Are you going to be jealous and territorial when a former interest gets monogamous with some-one else, even though you confirmed you didn’t want a relationship?    
Flip side: Let’s say you do want 
a relationship, but you want to play the field until you meet the right per -
son.  This decision I do advocate, but understand it also has consequences. Are you willing to explain juggling to the new sweetheart if they ask? Are you willing to accept the fact that your honesty might upset them, per -
haps irreversibly?  
My advice to the players who are 
easily distracted: Take it easy, at least for the first few weeks of the semester.  Juggling your coursework is stress-ful enough. Why flirt with emotional entropy?  But if you do decide to join Team Promiscuous, do so responsibly.  Be safe and honest from the get-go to lessen encounters with melodrama, but know that even candor can back-fire.  
— KAY BEAPeople always say that quality is better than quantity, but is that al-
ways true? 
You’re young, hot and 
in the best shape of your life — and with that comes the stamina and drive of a stallion. There is a slew of beautiful women all around campus. Who says you have to settle with just one?
Now is the best time to 
discover what kind of per -
son you want to end up 
with. That means meeting and dating as many people as possible, with an added bonus of a lot of sex.  
I don’t believe in soul 
mates or “the one.” I think the best relationships are formed when people enjoy spending as much time to-gether with their clothes on as they do off. I think the goal should be to spend time with as many different kinds of people as possible to fig-ure out what you want in a partner.
No one really knows 
what he or she is looking for in a mate, and the best way to learn is by trying. I say go for it. 
Date as many peo-
ple as you can — just don’t be a douche about it. Be honest and upfront with all of your partners, and don’t pretend the re-lationship is something it’s not. 
Try on all different shapes, 
sizes and models of people. Like they always say, you don’t buy a car without giv-ing it a test drive.
— ANDY MAROON14, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
It doesn’t take a keen 
eye to realize the stu-
dents around here emu-late Gainesville’s hot, hot heat. 
There are literally 
thousands of brilliant, fascinating, gorgeous, arousing lovelies in this tiny town. And most of us aren’t registered as “in a relationship” on Facebook. 
We’re kind of seeing a 
friend of a friend, flirt-ing with a honey in our Tuesday class, texting uber cutie pie(s) that we randomly met last weekend in addition to Facebook-stalking our exes and the hottie at the gym. Harmless … right?He Said, She Said: Is juggling relationships playing with fire?
 He Says…  She Says…  THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
A brand-spankin’ new school year has debuted on college 
campuses across the country, bringing with it high ex-pectations, football season debauchery and a fresh start 
for all the new and returning students.
Each year students evolve, adapting to their new class sta-
tus. Some suddenly stop caring about school, some reach the high of being able to legally booze, but all will most likely make some epically bad decisions (even you, fresh meat). Every class is different in its own special way, and your friendly fellas here at the Avenue have tried to decode the pecking order, uncover -
ing the evolution of a young buck freshman to a geezer senior.
Freshman
Dressed to impress, the freshmen will arrive to class early 
and sit in the front row of Exceptional People after being in-spired to do so by the peppy Preview staff. They found their way to Carleton via their campus maps and are sporting the ever-so-stylish or -
ange and blue lanyards around their necks. At night, they can be spotted leaving the bars when you arrive or vomiting after the three drinks they pre-gamed with in a Broward triple.
Sophomore
Sophomores are so incredibly hap-
py they’re not freshmen anymore that 
they’re not afraid to let you know it. They share their infinite wisdom with any freshman who will listen, and if ever they are mistaken for first-year students, they act like they’re dying of heart failure. At any given moment they can tell you how many days they’ve got until their 21st birthday, and they can be seen getting their fake IDs taken away at Gator City.
Junior
These new upperclassmen have come to the horrible real-
ization that college is going to be over in less than two years, and they’re going to have to enter the real world. They can be seen toting MCAT and LSAT prep books everywhere they go. And since they’ve just turned 21, they’re super eager to show every employee at the bar their IDs, even if no one asks for it (um, you ordered a water).
Senior
They look perpetually hungover and exhausted. They are 
so over school but so ready to drink. After class (if they even go to class), they’ll walk straight over to Balls and spend the day there. Day-drinking anyone?Fresh meat to old news: decoding the college classifications   
Shelby Webb
Columnist
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
THIS WEEK ONLY
$399 3/3 All-Inclusive
$369 4/4 All-Inclusive
$250 VISA Gift Cards!
352-336-3838
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1The Polos
All Inclusive Roommate Matching
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC!
4/4’s @ $329
Upgraded 4/4’s ONLY $359
$100 Visa Card for fall
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo  
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line. 
All utilities included. Furnished. Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398    8-26-11-25-1
UNIVERSITY TERRACE CONDO
4BR/4BA $345.mo all inclusive. Cable, inter-
net & utils. Available now. 300-1294    9-2-11-16-1
Professional/Grad Student.
All amenities. Must be studious & quiet, safe & secure. $350/mo. Leave message 333-8300 or 514-3320        8-26-11-4-1VALUE PLACE GAINESVILLE
New Extended Stay Lodging 3 miles to UF★NO LEASE - NO CREDIT CHECK
★FREE Utilities, Special UF Monthly Rates
★Furnished Wkly Single Studio $219.99+tax
★Kitchens, Laundry, HD TV/HBO, Secure
5505 SW 41st Blvd.,  I-75, Exit 382352-672-6008 ValuePlace.com/GainesvilleFL     
9-6-11-16-1
FREE RENT IN AUGUST
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.
Avail. 8/1 $790/mo. Call 305-982-7218       8-31-11-10-1
ROOMMATE for 2/1 apt. in Summit House 
2nd floor, 2 blks from campus, quiet, on bus route $400 + half util. 561-702-7401    8-29-11-8-1
4BR/4BA available in 4/4 in beautiful gated 
countryside complex. $375/mo incls all utili-ties, cable,internet, etc. Big Screen tv in liv-ing room! Looking for full year lease. 754-281-5023  orShahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com   9-1-11-10-1
3 ROOMS IN LUXURY CONDO
$350-$400 each. Pool, tennis, new applianc-
es. Close to UF. Call 516-851-6879 or email tapyourrealpower@aol.com       9-2-11-10-1
4br/2ba privately owned condo @ University 
Commons J339 for $1000/mo. Near UF on bus route. Pix available. Call Rosa 352-372-3930 or email rosa@matchmakerrealty.com   8-29-11-5-1
1br/1ba in 4br/4ba at Countryside Condos 
$350/mo. Avail. now. Great location very clean! Furnished, wireless,porch,1st floor, 5 min from UF, washer/dryer,bballcourt,pool,hot tub.305-664-1680    8-30-6-1
Available completely furnished 4BR/4BA 
condo. Great bus routes 9 & 35 every 8-10 minutes. Amenities pool, hot tub, volleyball, basketball court, and fitness center. Rent $300/mo, $300 security deposit. 514-7250
4 or 5 Bedroom House!
Walk to Class. Pool. Lots of parking. 
Available Sep. 1. Please contact John @ 
561-866-8234 for additional info
8-26-3-1QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms
Starting at $565
RTS 20, 21, 22
$99 Move In Special
Call today!
352.376.4002
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com     12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath
Starting @$954 ($318/person!)
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 17
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1• 750 sq. ft •$609/mo.Waived move-in 
fees • Waived pet fee
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    8-31-11-58-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
REDUCED AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. Large home, quiet neighborhood. $475/mo + utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    8-31-11-32-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   8-31-11-24-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    8-31-11-24-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-23BR, 2Bath, Washer/Dryer, 
Fenced backyard, Carport,
No pets. $1450./Mo   303-877-4915
9-19-11-30-2
*** AVAILABLE NOW ***
Unique 2BR Apt located between UF & 
Downtown. $650/mth. 302 NW 7th Terr. 
Call 870-2760.
8-26-11-14-2
AUGUST FREE! Walk or bike to Campus! 
Great properties with low rents, check us out rentals.campusrealtygroup.com 352-692-3800    8-26-11-14-2
2BR/1BA duplex behind Norman Hall
Cent H/AC, ceiling fans, $625/mo.
1117 and 1125 SW 7th Ave.Call 372-4903 or 917-416-69688-26-11-12-2
8 blocks from UF. 3BR 1BA.
All appliances incl, DW, W/D.Hardwood floors & tile.Fenced yard, pets ok, no extra fee.Individaul leases avail. $1000/moCall Carol 359-3341                8-31-11-12-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   8-26-11-10-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
VETERANS
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun -
dry 372-3783    8-31-11-12-2
MUST SEE ● VERY NICE ● QUIET 1BR
Custom built in-law suite.Close to all. Has it all. W/D, all utils incl +cable. $750/mo. Please call 278-8381    8-31-11-10-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs.1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-15509-16-11-20-2
Apartment for rent, 2bed/2bath. Townhouse 
style. Furnished or unfurnished. Located in Woodside Villas. For more information call Alysha at 561-261-4793 or Sherry at 561-239-8804. Rent is $700/month.   8-26-11-5-2
Turkey Creek Country Club 4Br/2Ba single 
family home. Security. Modern, quiet, peace -
ful, safe. Cul-de-sac street. 2 car garage, fenced yard. Community playground. Great for family, students. Pet or pets considered. Rent negotiable. Immediate. 954-292-2965 or 352-327-1996    8-26-11-5-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    9-19-11-20-2
GREAT LOCATION! 2BD/2BA partially fur-
nished condo. Close to campus and med school, bus stop right outside, lots of park-ing, swimming pool, full kitchen, W/D, pet friendly. $725/mo OBO (904) 891-13119-2-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $2200/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    9-19-11-20-2
5 BLOCKS NW OF UF
1BR/1BA apt. Galley kitchen. Reserved park-ing next to door. Small pets ok - no extra fee. $500/mo, $300 sec dep. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-2-11-10-2***FALL RENTAL ROOMS***
Starting From $350 to $450 Per Rooms
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Semester and Year Leases Available
Rooms For Immediate Move-In
9-2-11-27-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Avail now - 1 yr. $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg  
9-6-11-10-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 352-871-7801   pfitz100@yahoo.com    8-29-11-5-2
2/2 house/ S Hgh Sprngs $850. 1 acre. 
Dog OK/ deposit.1st/last /securty/ electric depost $250 month-month call Broker Julie Cole 352-871-5354 Prudential Trend Realty. Avail. now    8-29-11-5-2
2BD/2BA townhouse, full W/D, huge 
closets, tile and laminate flooring, fenced backyard, pet friendly, near UF, very clean, section 8 accepted. $725/mo  
2911 SW 38th place - (954) 439-2076
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home.  
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to 
$400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-58879-20-20-2
Spectacular 3BR, Lakefront Condo
1 mile south of UF and Shandsrecently renovated,  $1400 monthpool, clubhouse, 2500 s.f. + garageavailable immediately (352) 262-2871    9-21-11-20-2
Historic House walk to UF.2703 NW 2nd 
Ave.Central h/a,screened porch,private parking,laundry with w/d.perfect for grad stu-dent or professional.No pets.1st,last sec.$40 app fee. $800 mo. 352-332-5836    8-31-11-6-2
4 BR 3 Bath remodeled home on quiet street! 
$1295/mo includes lawn care, fenced yard, screened porch, WD, vaulted ceilings. 1 yr lease, $900 sec dep, no pets, no smoking. perfect for small family! 386/212-1578 appt    8-29-11-4-2
3 blocks to UF – Gatornest
$550 – Only 3 left
Bike to UF – Centerpoint
$450- Only1 left
4BR/2BA House
directly across from Law School
W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
2392 NW 2nd Avenue – Call for details
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
9-8-11-10-2
Amazing, unique house for rent. 2/1 with 
study. No pets or smoking please. Has at-tached studio apt which is rented. http://smith-rentals.edicypages.com/ $875/month. 921 NW 12 Ave. Call 352-466-3695.   8-30-11-4-2
1Br/1Ba - Stoneridge - No Deposit
-816sq - Available Now-$35.00 App Fee-Laundry Room / Pool / Tennis Courts*Contact Julie at: jmf1001@gmail.com    8-26-11-5-3
18, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-729-1561   8-26-11-43-4
Male, grad student/instructor preferred 
for small furnished apt on side of private home close to UF on bus line. Cable, inter-net, patio, safe. No pets. One person only. Avail Aug. $450/mo incl utils. 352-336-5808 8-29-11-16-4
1 bedroom in 4/2 apartment  
Midtown student housing No Pets 
1740 NW 3rd PL - Call 352-231-30028-26-11-5-4
Male roommate needed - 4 BR house, 14 
blks from campus. Safe & secure NW neigh-borhood. Great deck & yard. Clean, nicely furn, new appl, $575/mo incl util, w/d. AJ 561.718.5567    9-6-11-10-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-78818-29-11-5-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871             9-7-11-5-4
LARGE FURNISHED SUITE IN BEAUTIFUL
house. Female only. Upscale horse neigh
borhood north of Millhopper Rd. 12 min to
SFCC, 15 min to Oaks Mall, 30 min to UF.
$350/mo plus 1/3 utilities. 386-462-9678.
9-1-11-7-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
1996 LIBERTY 14 X 60 MOBILE HOME
2BR/2BA, cent H/AC. Very good condition. Oak Park Village, G'ville. $10,000 cash.Call 338-8039 leave message   8-25-11-5-5
BY OWNER! A STEAL 3/2 HOME 
MINUTES TO DOWNTOWN FOR SALE OR ASK ABOUT A LEASE TO PURCHASE! INTERESTED CALL 352 318 9262.    8-26-11-5-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6FURNITURE ●  FURNITURE
Lots of it!   Great prices!
Haven Hospice Attic has received 2600 
pieces of furniture as a donation from Collier Companies. The furniture comes from reno-vated student units at several of their proper-ties. These items are being offered at HUGE discounts. Contact The Haven Hospice Attic, 9am-6pm, Mon thru Sat, 352-378-7484 for more info. All sales support Haven Hospice programs.    8-26-5-6
●Carpeting to cover at least 2 10x10 rooms
●Computer standBest offer for both. Call 335-95038-29-11-5-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
SOFA BED
Attractive sofa folds out into a single bed.  $75 for a buyer who can transport the item from off campus.  374-8112   8-29-11-3-6
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
Laptops from $200
Used w/ Warranty
Joel 352-336-0075     www.pcrecycle.biz                    8-26-11-5-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
PARKING SPACES For Rent 
$65/mo. 922, 924 SW 7th Ave.
Call 372-4903 or 917-416-69688-26-11-12-10
Visit the Website
http://itsthejobsstupid.comRead the BookISBN: 9781 4620 2143721451(ebook)                         8-26-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
+15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take 
apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    8-31-11-28-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is giving away TWO scoot-
ers to our Facebook friends, one at end of Summer B, another in Fall. "Like" our FB page for more details about the giveaway. facebook.com/RoadRatMotors   9-12-11-24-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
 THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-1296 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
2001 LEXUS ES300
207000 miles. Good condition $4,500352-871-0167    kharyun@ufl.edu     8-29-11-5-12LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      9-8-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   8-30-98-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14
NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses pd;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;4yr old/1.5 yr old; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com9-6-11-15-14
WEB COURSE ASSISTANTS wanted to 
help faculty with course websites. Applicants must be familiar with Dreamweaver, CSS and Photoshop. Be prepared to present samples of your work. Full- and part-time po-sitions are available. Pay starts at $10.00 per hour. basharat@ufl.edu, online application at http://citt.ufl.edu/contact.php.   8-26-11-8-14
PERSONAL COUNSELOR
TECH SUPPORTLINUX ADMINADMIN ASSTAVIATION ASSTPROOFREADER
Full and part time.   Please apply at
http://www.gleim.com/employment 9-2-11-13-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
FALL 2011
BSC2010            ENY1001           MUH4016
BSC2011            FOS2001             PLP2000
BUL4310            GEB3373             PSY2012
ECO2013           MAN3025             RTV3405
ECO2023           MAN4504             STA2023
ENT3003           MAR3023        …and more!
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
9-2-11-12-14
PT - Gun Club
W, F, Sa, Su. Noon - 6pm. Field & clubhouse 
help. Call Mr. Clay @ 352-372-1044    8-26-11-6-14
Veterinary Receptionist
Experience preferred. Must be available 
afternoons and Saturdays. Apply in person 
at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145 W 
Newberry Rd, Newberry
8-26-11-6-14
Prepbooks.com, an Atlanta based 
social learning start-up, is hiring Campus Representatives for PT positions.Apply on website under careers.   8-25-5-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net9-2-11-10-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
UF Survey Research Center
Now hiring for fall semester!
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
9-9-11-15-14This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Please submit resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
20, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
Florida Farm Bureau is seeking an indi-
vidual for business' cafeteria. Prior food exp desired. Hrs - 6am to 2:30 pm, part-time. Send resume to: FFB-HR #619 Fax: 352-374-1510 Email: hr_cafeteria@ffbic.com8-26-11-5-14
Medical assistant/ receptionist wanted for 
busy physician's office. Medical terminology and/or anatomy recommended but not re-quired. Fax (352-377-4816) or email (jas3fl@aol.com) resumes.       9-2-11-10-14
Childcare services for 2 kids (6&10) wanted 
weekday afternoons. Requires car and clean driving record. Experience with children and references a must. email setlow@ufl.edu8-26-11-5-14
homework coach needed for bright but dis-
organized 15 yr old attending alternative school $10/hr.hrs flexible. email qualifications toburgess4him@bellsouth.net    8-26-11-5-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
$25/hr - Hiring liquor promo reps.
Must be attractive, outgoing, size 6 or below due to wardrobe and available to work nights and weekends.Email projectcoordinator@adelantelive.com for more info.     8-25-3-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT  15-25 hrs. $7.35/hr. M 
thru F, 10am - 6pm. Excellent Word, typing, internet surfing skills. Excel a plus. Indicate available hours, in 3-4 hr blocks,  and gradu-ating semester. oma.office@yahoo.com   8-29-11-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230     9-6-11-10-14
How I Got an A
is now hiring note takers!
We hire for more classes than anyone.
Apply at HowIGotanA.com
9-2-11-9-14
Nanny Wanted for 2 Boys
Older grad student w/ child care experience. Education or counseling majors preferred. Reliable car & references required. Mon. -Thurs., 3:00-5:30 pm, $10 - 15/hr. 352-256-9757.    8-29-11-5-14
Needed: Guitar and/or piano teacher in our 
home for once-a-week lessons for teen-age girls. Email resume to ntouche@live.com   8-30-11-5-14
O'CONNELL CENTER NOW HIRING
*Concerts*Banquets*Sports*
applications accepted on a year round basis
applications available online at:
www.oconnellcenter.ufl.edu
8-29-5-14
NANNIES needed for 2 jobs NOW:
16hrs: M-F 2:45 - 6pm; $11/hr ages 4/6;18hrs/wk: M-F 3-6pm: $10/hr age 8 sp needsNoah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com8-29-11-5-14
Job and volunteer opportunities working 
with children available! PT After School Recreational Aides needed. Volunteer volleyball coaches needed. Visit www.GirlsPlace.net for more information.8-29-11-5-14
Eyecare Express seeks F/T or P/T sales
help. $500-$600 per week.No experience needed, will train.Apply at 3720 NW 13th st Gainesville.8-31-11-7-14
Farah's now hiring exp. waitrons & prep 
cook. Experience a must.Apply Monday-Friday after 5pm.1120 W University Ave                 8-31-7-14NANNIES NEEDED 12-15hrs/wk: $12/hr
M-F 1:30-4:30pm; W@12:30; ages 10-14Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com8-29-11-5-14
Elementary Tutors Needed
$20/hr; Ed majors pref.Background check requiredSmartphone a plus; Send resumesmartstartgators@bellsouth.net8-31-11-7-14
Five Star Pizza Downtown
is looking for
Postive Profesional Attitudes
car is required for all personel
variety of hours availabe
apply in person at 210 sw 2nd ave.
between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m.
9-7-11-10-14
One serious hardworking and trustworthy UF 
student. Gen or const labor, exp w/electrical & plumbing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy lifting. PT flex hrs. $7-7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183     8-26-11-3-14
Centerplate Part-Time Jobs!
● Event Supervisors● Warehouse Runners● CashiersApply in person at Ben Hill Griffin StadiumMonday-Friday 8:00 AM to 4:00 PMwww.centerplate.eventbrite.com                      8-31-11-6-14
Shift MGR/Supervisor needed M-F 11AM-
7PM. $10/$12 per hr based on exp. Previous Deli/counter exp a plus. Must have 1 year supervisory exp.Please send cover letter & resume to 375-5459 oremailmarketcafe@bellsouth.net    8-30-11-5-14
WAITPERSONS
Experienced & friendly. Apply in person at 
Napolatano's 606 NW 75th St.    8-29-11-4-14
Homework Coach wanted for intelligent fun 
loving 12 yr old boy. Late afternoons and evenings, Sun-Thurs, 2-3 hours per day, $10.00/hr. Must have reliable transp. Email qualifications to hogans83@hotmail.com.   8-31-11-5-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring part-
time Bartender's/Deli Help. Accepting Apps M-F 9-11AM and 2:30-4:30PM at the 5156 S W 34th ST location. Must have reliable transportation and some daytime availability   8-31-11-5-14
NANNY NEEDED for 2: 18mon/4yrs
2wks/mon/min; 40hrs/wk @$12/hrNoah's Ark Nanny: email res., pix &sched: to info@noahsarknanny.com    9-6-11-8-14
Tutor needed for 2 well-behaved kids, 15 & 
12, boy & girl, 10th grade & 7th grade. Math, sci, & especially English writing. Must be able to drive. Good compensation, provide din-ner. Please email mfanous7777@gmail.com   8-29-11-3-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
PLUMBING
Anything to do with 1 or 2 we do & kitchens too G-DO REDO. State certified CFC 1428363 and insured. Gary Audet 352-494-2695       8-25-11-5-15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Certified Crowd Manager available for and 
have worked countless Events, Socials, Night clubs as well as Alachua County Music Festivals. Arriving ready to go in /out capac-ity clikers, reentry stamps etc. Feel free to call 352 318 9262 or email aworld4u2c@aol.com to schedule a CM for your event.    8-26-11-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
CPR/BLS/First Aid. American Heart 
Association Card issued. Classes run con-tinuously. Rates start at $35.00 per per-son. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217. Discounts offered.Serving Gators for over 15 years.   8-29-11-10-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
THE SMOKELESS CIGARETTE,
E-Cig is popular and may be just the product to help a friend or loved one stop smoking.www.dnobles.myinlife.com**************************************************8-29-7-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Silence is Golden II, a benefit  for Easter 
Seals at Altrusa House. 8/27 at 7:30pm at the Unitarian Universalist Fellowship.Harold Lloyd silent comedy, improvised music & refreshments. mcarbonell@fl.easterseals.com8-26-11-6-20
THE BIGGEST POSTER SALE. Biggest 
and Best Selection. Choose from over 2000 different images. FINE ART, MUSIC, MOVIES, MODELS, HUMOR, ANIMALS, PERSONALITIES, LANDSCAPES, MOTIVA-TIONALS, PHOTOGRAPHYMOST IMAGES ONLY $7, $8 AND $9.SEE US AT Reitz Union Colonnade on Monday Aug. 22nd thru Friday Aug 26th, 2011. THE HOURS ARE 9AM - 6pm.THIS SALE IS SPONSORED BY Reitz Union Arts & Crafts Center    8-26-11-5-20
FREE .GATOR [FAN WAVER] FOR THE 
GAME.GO TO www.fla-gators.com8-25-3-20NCAA LEAKS
Know Something We Should?
Ncaaleaks.com
8-25-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
Pol Parsley youtube.com
Features caps, CDs, tapes, DVDsAt Total Video - 2104 SW 13th street8-29-11-5-21
UF/LSU WEEKEND PARTY BUS: 2-nts 
French Quarter Marriott New Orleans, GameDay Transport to LSU. $269 pp www.GatorTrips.com 352.278.1595Florida Seller of Travel Lic#ST37866    8-31-5 21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Dream Dogz Open House
Sun, Aug 28 from 1 to 3:30pm3909 NW 97th Blvd 352-278-7404Your dog can earn a degree at Dream Dogz University          8-26-11-4-24
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Lerentee McCray is in 
line to start at strong-side linebacker after playing end last season. See Story, Page 24Friday’s Mailbag
There’s still time to get in on Friday’s first mailbag column. Submit any and all questions to us on our Twitter account: @alligatorSports. Come at us, bro.   Alligator Open House will be held next Wednesday
Want to work at the largest student-run paper in the nation? Come out to alligatorSports’ Open House on Wednesday from 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Positions available as a beat writer or copy editor. Free pizza! 
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Coach Will Muschamp ended prac-
tice about 30 minutes early Wednesday night, but it was far from a reward. 
Frustrated with his players’ inability 
to remember assignments, Muschamp said the coaching staff would be evaluat-ing film late into the night and that some starters could be losing their jobs.
“There ain’t no doubt,” Muschamp 
said. “We’ll figure it out tonight and we’ll look at the tape. We’re gonna get the guys who compete and want to play hard.”
Florida did situational work Wednes-
day, meaning players were told to pre-tend they were in specific scenarios like third downs or plays inside the red zone. Muschamp said most of the players did pretty well remembering their assign-ments, but clearly the problems of a few made the biggest impact on practice.
“It’s just a lack of focus on what 
you’re supposed to do and how you’re supposed to do it,” he said. “We’re in (a two-minute drill); we have guys walking around. We have no sense of urgency about what we do and how we do it and how we approach it. Very frustrating.”
Muschamp didn’t say Wednesday’s 
practice was a step back but added, “It dang sure wasn’t a step forward.”
This comes just four days after the 
Gators broke training camp. Following two weeks of staying together in a hotel and focusing on football all day, Florida players have returned to the typical day-to-day routine of mixing practice with classes.
Muschamp doesn’t think the new 
schedule affected practice.
“If you’re a competitor and you want 
to line up in that stadium and play hard and play fast and play physical, you do it regardless of the situation, regardless of the opponent,” he said. “It doesn’t matter; you just line up and play.”
Injuries: Wide receiver Omarius 
Hines missed practice with a hamstring 
Courtesy of UF Communications
Florida coach Will Muschamp said several starters may lose their jobs after he 
cut Wednesday’s scrimmage short because players were not focused. 
UF FOOTBALLFrustrated Muschamp cuts practice short
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Offensive lineman Kyle Koehne may not be a 
household name for Florida fans. But the soph-omore is a well-known commodity among his brothers in the trenches. 
Koehne, who was moved from tackle to left 
guard recently, has emerged as the likely starter when Florida opens the season next Saturday against FAU. 
Since the move, teammates and coaches have 
raved about Koehne’s work in practice, and while that may come as a surprise to some, it’s nowhere near a shock to Koehne’s roommates: center Jonotthan Harrison and right guard Jon Halapio.
“He’s had a few plays where he’s killing 
guys,” Halapio said. “He just really knows what he’s doing on the field and you can clearly see that on 
the film.”
Although Koehne rose from relative obscu-
rity to the top of the depth chart in a matter of weeks, he said the adjustment has not been a big issue for him. 
After rotating with the reserves on the right 
side at guard and tackle last season, Koehne said he’s comfortable at any spot along the line, adding valuable depth at every position should someone go down with an injury.
Also helping his learning curve is the rela-
tionship Koehne shares with Halapio and Har-rison. 
After lining up next to each other snap after 
snap on the practice field, the three head to the same house, the same couch, and continue to Koehne in mix 
to start after switch to guard
Brantley: Confidence on the rise or still a nervous wreck? 
With practices closed off to the media and the public 
— and limited bits of actual information coming from anyone associated with the Gators — report-
ers, fans and outside observers alike have had to take coach Will Muschamp and his players at their word.
So I have, and that includes redshirt senior quarterback 
John Brantley during fall camp.
When asked whether he was nervous last year, his first 
as the Gators’ starting quarterback, Brantley was frank.
“You’re always nervous in games, that’s just the way 
you are,” he said.
It was arguably the most honest answer to a question 
during the opening weeks of practice. If you’re taking the Gators at 
their word — and aren’t we all? — it was the most telling and damning one, too.
“Nervous” is not a character -
istic, or to borrow a phrase from Muschamp, “a critical factor,” you look for in a quarterback. In fact, a simple right-click for its synonyms 
brings up words like “panicky,” “worried,” “tense” and “uneasy” — not words you want associated with your team’s signal-caller.
While Brantley can’t be blamed for being nervous when he was handed the keys to an offense previously driven by one of the best college football players ever, the most troubling part of his answer is that he said you’re always 
nervous. 
As in, it’s just part of who you are.His nerves showed last season, and as a result, the Gators 
sputtered to an 8-5 record and had the 10th-worst offense in the Southeastern Conference.
By all accounts, Brantley has been confident this fall, 
but if he’s still panicky it could prove troublesome (again) for the Gators’ offense, because it will be only as good as see NOTe, p Age 23see k OehNe, p Age 23
Tom green
twitter: @tomas_verde
see gReeN, p Age 23UF Fo otball
The TOM gReeN shOWJOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators’ defense was stingy 
from the start last year, allowing just one goal through its first five games.
This season, it’s been more of the 
same with Florida shutting out Mi-ami and FIU last weekend to kick off its 2011 campaign.
After allowing 15 shots — eight 
on goal — in the opener against the Hurricanes, the Gators limited the Golden Panthers to just six total shots, only three of which were on frame.
“Traveling away to get two 
shutouts, it’s awesome,” said junior defender Kat Williamson, whose play over the weekend earned her Southeastern Conference Defensive Player of the Week honors.
However, Williamson said the 
defense, despite the shutouts, still has plenty of room for improve-ment.
“Our formation relies on every-
one moving as a group toward the ball, and we need to be a little bit quicker with that and our counter attacks as well,” Williamson said. “Just playing simple and getting our jobs done, and I have no doubt we can do that.”
Gators coach Becky Burleigh 
echoed Williamson’s sentiment that there are still areas the unit can address.
“I think we gave up way too 
many opportunities against Mi-ami,” Burleigh said. 
“We were probably fortunate 
not to get scored upon. Against FIU, we definitely reduced their number of chances, but I just think we need to be sharper overall.”
Burleigh said one area the 
Gators are working on this week in 
practice is their defense against set pieces, which she felt 
led to too many quality scoring chances for the opposition during the weekend.
“When you are man-to-man-
ning someone, it’s just you versus her,” Burleigh said of the set-piece defensive strategy. “It’s just pride. It’s pretty simple. It’s time to get it done.”
Many soccer formations put a 
heavy emphasis on the back line of defenders, who serve as the last wall of protection before the keep-er.
However, the Gators’ defense focuses on each level playing to-gether as one cohesive unit.
Burleigh said an integral part of 
the scheme requires her players to keep proper spacing on the field.
“We need to keep our shape, 
and that does not just include a back four,” Burleigh said.
Williamson added the defensive 
strategy involves players at every position.“We’re trying to play a high-
pressure formation,” Williamson said. “So if the ball is switched, it’s not only on the back line to switch. The forwards have to pressure, and the midfielders have to push up.”
Williamson started at center 
back in each of the Gators’ first two games and was the only player on the pitch for the entire 90 minutes.
The defensive attack anchored by Williamson is not only paying dividends in games, it’s having a positive effect on the offense in practice as well.
“It helps a lot to play against 
some really good players in prac-tice,” said freshman midfielder Ha-vana Solaun. “It just helps us grow as offensive players to play against strong defensive players every day.”22, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Junior center back Kat Williamson, who took home Southeastern Conference Defensive Player of the 
Week honors last week, is the only Gator to play 90 minutes in each of the team’s first two games. 
Defense stifling early 
foes, still needs work
UF Soccerinjury. Muschamp said he is ques-
tionable for Florida’s home opener against Florida Atlantic on Sept. 3.
Hines’ injury is especially costly 
considering he has also been work-ing at tight end, where Florida is already thin behind starter Jordan Reed. On the first day of practice Aug. 6, freshman A.C. Leonard suffered a torn meniscus, which is expected to keep him out until mid-September.
Cornerback Jeremy Brown 
(sprained right knee) sat out prac-tice again Wednesday. Brown has been out for two weeks, though Muschamp reiterated that he ex-pects the junior to be back in the lineup by the season opener.Easley impressing: Defensive 
tackle Dominique Easley was one of the few players Muschamp praised after practice. Easley has been popular lately among team-mates, who have singled him out as the best defensive lineman at camp.  
“He’s just relentless,” right 
guard Jon Halapio said. “Since he’s been here, I’ve never seen him tired, on or off the field. He doesn’t show it. … He’s really explosive off the ball. I don’t know if he knows the snap count. He’s just re-ally quick off the ball. I can’t even get out of my stance. By the times I get out of my stance, he’s already in my pads.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alliga-
tor.org.talk football.
“Ever since we first came 
here we’ve been kinda like a 
trio,” Koehne said. “We’re with each other 24/7, talking to each other 24/7.”
Halapio, who started seven 
games at right guard last sea-son but admitted he wasn’t as mentally prepared as he should have been, has been instrumen-tal in preparing Koehne for a starting role.
Whether it’s help learning a 
specific play or getting his foot-work down, Halapio is always there. 
The relationship the three 
share has helped create unity at what coach Will Muschamp calls one of the most important positions on the field.
“There are two units on your 
football team that have to be tied together, and that’s in the offensive line and the second-ary,” Muschamp said. “The communication, being on the same page with the run and the pass game, and having that jell is very important.”
To that end, having three 
self-described best friends an-choring the center of the line bodes well for the unit’s cohe-siveness.
In addition to the added 
chemistry, Halapio said he’s motivated by the line’s lacklus-ter performance a season ago.While there is still work to be 
done — Halapio said they are still experiencing the occasional “brain fart” — the addition of Koehne to the mix has improved the line’s expectations. 
But for Koehne, he’s just hap-
py to have a chance at starting alongside his friends, his room-mates, despite being somewhat lost in the shuffle his first three seasons on campus.
“Just keep my eyes down the 
good path,” he said. ”I knew if I kept working hard I’d get a shot.”
Contact Matt Watts at 
mwatts@alligator.org. THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 23
Courtesy of UF Communications
Florida right guard Jon Halapio said the line’s chemistry is im-
proved with the addition of roommate and friend Kyle Koehne. 
Roommates, friends anchor UF line
koehne , from page 21
Brantley. 
This may shock you, but weapons 
like Chris Rainey, Jeff Demps, Quin-
ton Dunbar and Frankie Hammond aren’t very useful if someone can’t get them the ball.
In Brantley’s defense, when asked 
in that same interview about how comfortable he is in offensive coor -
dinator Charlie Weis’ new system — which remains a mystery to any-body outside of the team — he had this to say: “I don’t feel as nervous as I used to back in spring. I feel more confident going out there making the right calls, making the right protec-tions.”
That’s a good sign for Florida, be-
cause it shows Brantley is progress-ing to the point where he’s not anx-
ious in the backfield. But it’s also cause for concern, be-
cause it means he’s not there yet.
We’ve seen how bad Florida can 
be when it doesn’t get good play from its quarterback. 
While last year’s team had a lot 
of issues, quarterback had to be the most glaring considering Brantley threw more interceptions (10) than touchdowns (nine) as the Gators’ 82nd-ranked offense stalled all sea-son.
Brantley said he needed to just 
forget about last year’s disastrous season and move forward. But there’s something he should remember: the Gators’ new offense will only go as far as their quarterback can carry them.
You can take me for my word on 
that one.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@al-
ligator.org.GReen , from page 21noTe , from page 21Injured Brown expected 
back for season opener
“[Koehne has] had a few 
plays where he’s killing 
guys.”
Jon Halapio
UF right guardGREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
 
When Lerentee McCray 
switched to defensive end in fall 2009, his days roaming the mid-dle of the defense appeared to be behind him.
But now, after two years of 
limited action on the line, the junior is in position to start at strong-side linebacker. 
On Wednesday McCray said 
he’s been taking the first-team repetitions in practice alongside sophomore Jelani Jenkins and ju-nior Jon Bostic, with sophomore Darrin Kitchens and freshman Gideon Ajagbe backing him up. 
“I’ve always been ready to 
take on that starting role,” Mc-Cray said. “I really feel comfort-able pass-rushing, but adapting to the linebacker position has been coming along really good for me.” 
Said coach Will Muschamp: 
“At this point he’s played the best at the SAM. I would say he’s been the most consistent guy.”
McCray came to UF as a four-
star recruit and the No. 10 out-side linebacker in the nation, ac-cording to Rivals.com. 
As a senior at Ocala Dunnel-
lon High, he recorded 118 tackles and nine sacks from a standing position. 
When he arrived on campus, 
McCray impressed coaches with his ability to rush off the edge in sets featuring three down line-men. That led to the switch to defen-
sive end, where McCray recorded six tackles in limited action last year behind seniors Justin Trat-tou and Duke Lemmens. 
But Muschamp and his staff 
want to use McCray differently. They have decided to stand him up in their hybrid defense that uses a mix of 3-4 and 4-3 prin-ciples. 
Muschamp said McCray has 
performed well in the team’s sub packages, and that his pass-rush abilities give the defense a little more “juice” off the edge. 
“This defensive scheme has 
helped me out a lot,” McCray said. “Just moving back and forth, showcasing my talent and some of the stuff I can do when I get on the grass.”
McCray added that his role 
changes depending on the situa-tion and the offensive play call. He estimates that if the opposing offense is passing, he’ll be drop-ping back into coverage 70 per-cent to 80 percent of the time. 
Muschamp’s defense is based 
heavily on cunning and subter-fuge, so McCray will also occa-sionally play the Buck linebacker position, which puts a greater emphasis on the pass rush. 
McCray said he’s comfort-
able with the defense and the many different schemes and blitz packages that comprise it. Given the deception and flexibility in-volved, McCray thinks the Gators have a chance to catch opponents off guard this season.
“Some teams out there [are] 
underestimating us, a lot of peo-ple doubting us,” he said. “We’re always ready to surprise some people.”
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@
alligator.org.24, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Florida junior Lerentee McCray (34) appears to have claimed the starting job at strong-side linebacker 
alongside Jon Bostic and Jelani Jenkins after playing a limited role at defensive end last season. UF FOOTBALLMcCray in line to claim vacant job at strong-side linebacker  
