We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 43 MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  The UF men’s 
track and field 
team won its sec-
ond straight NCAA 
indoor champion -
ship over the week -
end, becoming just 
the fourth team to 
ever win back-to-
back indoor titles
See Story, Page 21.
MESA, Ariz.  — A man is in custody after he broke into a town-
home and got stuck in a clothes hamper underneath the window 
he climbed through. Mesa police say 20-year-old Michael Trias was arrested on suspicion of burglary and criminal damage.
The East Valley Tribune reports a resident inside the home 
heard the commotion of Trias becoming entangled in the hamper at about 9 a.m. Thursday. The owner of the home restrained Trias and was able to take him outside and call police. No property was taken from the home, but there was some damage done to the window.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSPolice: Man gets stuck in hamper during break-in
Sunny
81/52FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 17
CROSSWORD 19
SPORTS 21n After filling out an 
NCAA Tournament 
bracket on Page 12, 
check out alligator -
Sports.org, sign up 
for our bracket chal -
lenge and compete 
against the alliga -
torSports staff.
Bracket 
page 12
AP Photo
UF guards Erving Walker and Kenny Boynton are back in the NCAA Tournament, as the Gators received 
a No. 2 seed in the Southeast region and will face No. 15-seed UCSB on Thur sday in Tampa.
n UF WILL PLAY UCSB IN 
TAMPA ON THURSDAY.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
ATLANTA— Just hours after 
a crushing defeat in the finals 
of the Southeastern Conference 
Tournament, the Gators found new life. 
With Sunday’s announcement 
of the 2011 NCAA Tournament field came the revelation that Florida received the No. 2 seed in the Southeast region, a higher spot than widely predicted. 
The Gators will face 15-seed 
University of California Santa Barbara on Thursday in Tampa. 
“We are really excited about 
being in the NCAA Tournament,” UF coach Billy Donovan said. “I’m very happy for our players 
and our staff for the opportunity 
to compete.”
Florida will head into the 
matchup hoping to rebound from Sunday’s 70-54 loss to Kentucky. 
Playing perhaps their best bas-
ketball of the season, the Gators entered the contest on a four-
game winning streak but fell one 
win short of sweeping the SEC championships. 
“It hurts, but we’ve been here 
before,” senior forward Chandler Parsons said. “We’re not going to hang our heads after one loss.
“We want to make a run in the 
Tournament. It hurts right now, 
and I’m sure it’s going to hurt 
later, but we’ve got to move past that and look forward.”
The Gators are 6-0 following 
losses so far this season and have won those contests by an aver -
age of 19.3 points per game. This trend is not lost on Donovan or his players, who have spoken all 
year about how well they handle 
adversity. 
“We’re a resilient group, and, 
if anything, this will help us fo-cus that much more in practice,” junior guard Erving Walker said.  Gators earn No. 2 seed in NCAA Tournament
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
Alyssa Post was buying groceries Fri-
day afternoon when the store went dark 
and started trembling.
Post, a 21-year-old East Asian Lan-
guages and Literatures senior at UF who is studying in Tokyo, had just put cream cheese into her grocery cart when the city was rocked by the 8.9-magnitude earth-quake that began off the country’s north-east coast.
She and the other 11 UF students who 
were in Japan at the time are safe, said Kirsten Laufer, UF’s study abroad assis-
tant director.
She said one UF student was in Nii-
gata, about 100 miles from the center of 
the earthquake, and four were in Tokyo. 
The rest were in cit-ies farther south and west, away from the heart of the earth-
quake and the path of the tsunami that 
tore through Japan’s coastal towns.
Post, who is from Miami, said store 
employees told her to abandon her grocer -
ies and get outside. None of the food fell Students safe in Japan
sEE JAPAN, PAGE 5NewsInternationalLOCAL ELECTIONs
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
Every weekday, Ozzy Angulo rises at 7 
a.m. for his first class at Santa Fe College. 
Around the same time, Lauren Poe is 
preparing to teach dual enrollment students 
about government at the same college.
Before going to his pawn shop for anoth-
er day of work, Richard Selwach remembers to feed his parrot, Papooga.
All three will fill the rest of the day shak-
ing hands and pitching their platforms in their pursuits for a seat on the Gainesville 
City Commission.Now as the calender creeps closer to 
Tuesday — election day — they are nearing 
the end.
Of the 13 candidates 
vying for the three seats, 
most said they have enjoyed campaigning despite the break-neck speed that accompanies running for public office.
“If there was a free 
block of time on the cal-
endar, it quickly got filled with a campaign 
activity,” said Poe, who is running for re-City candidates reflect 
on campaign season
Angulo
sEE ELECTIONs, PAGE 5sEE BAsKETBALL, PAGE 24“We are really excited 
about being in the NCAA 
Tournament. I’m very hap-
py for our players and our 
staff for the opportunity to 
compete.”
Billy Donovan
UF men’s basketball coachNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 43 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras FORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
“Italiani Nuovi or Nuova Italia?  
Attitudes Toward Granting Citizenship to Second-generation Immigrants in Contemporary Italy”
Today, 11:45 a.m.Turlington Hall Room 3312Italy is home to an ever-grow-ing population of children of 
immigrants born and raised 
in the country but who do not have Italian citizenship due to the restrictive regime in place. Although many children of immigrants have the oppor -
tunity to apply for citizenship upon their 18th birthday , a series of conditions and provi-
sions render the process dif-
ficult and preclude many of them from applying at all. This talk by Georgia Bianchi, Sociology Doctoral Candidate, explores Italians’ views about granting citizenship to second-generation immigrants in Italy . This event is sponsored by the 
Center for European Studies.
Business Fashion Show
Tuesday, 8 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand BallroomDressing the part for a job can 
be just as important as actual 
performance in the workplace. Come out tothe Women’s History Month Business Fashion Show to celebrate past 
decades of style for the mod-
ern woman. All looks will be inspired by popular decades and can help students learn 
how to dress professionally Orange & BrewUF’s Women’s History Month 
and Students Taking Action Against Racism (STAAR) are hosting
“We Rock the Mic Right.” 
Women’s History Month is a month devoted to the ac-complishments of women throughout history. This event 
will showcase the work of UF 
students. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alliga-
tor.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.for thier future careers.
Sixth Annual UF Law Student/ 
Faculty Art Show
Wednesday, 7 p.m.
Legal Information CenterThe Art Law Society will be hosting its annual art show at the Levin College 
of Law. There will be free 
food, live music and a si-lent auction benefiting the local arts in medicine pro-
gram. Everyone is invited 
to come and celebrate the arts for a good cause.
Free Yourself: No Photoshop 
NeededThursday, 11 a.m.Plaza of the Americas
This exhibit will transform 
one’s idea of true beauty.Come experience an event that will inspire confidence 
and push individuals to be 
liberated from their nega-tive views of body image, allowing them to truly em-brace their beauty.
Female in the Fine Arts
Thursday, 7:30 p.m.
SUNNY
81/52PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/54SUNNY
78/51SUNNY
79/51SUNNY
80/54FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY TODAY
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
March 20, 1964: Albert II, the alligator mascot 
of UF, is “gatornapped.” University police find the 
gate still locked and a hole cut through the fencing at the top of his pen. A few days later, campus police receive reports of a 7-foot alligator chained to a flag-
pole on Florida State University’s campus.
March 14, 1986: Northeast Gainesville is hit with 
an early-morning tornado that leaves first-estimate 
damages at $1.7 million.
Touching down at the Northgate Shopping pla-
za at 6:17 a.m., the twister moves a mile and a half in eight minutes to the Lamplighter mobile-home park near Gainesville Regional Airport. 
The tornado throws trees into cars and rips the roofs off of unlucky shops but causes no deaths or injuries.
March 17, 1998: John Haupt, a man charged with 
making harassing phone calls and false 911 reports, runs as a candidate for Gainesville mayor from in-
side the Alachua County Jail. 
If elected mayor, Haupt plans to build an un-
derground railroad system and increase incoming 
revenues.
Haupt previously ran for a City Commission seat 
in 1996 and worked as a researcher with UF’s de-partment of research and graduate education for 13 years.  In the mayoral election, he receives 379 votes, which amounts to 4 percent of total votes cast.
Gina Chitko / Alligator
Final Countdown
The Space Shuttle Discovery rolled down the launch pad 
and into retirement at the Kennedy Space Center on Feb. 24. The shuttle returned to Earth on Wednesday.
UF ACADEMICS
By MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
The Warrington College of 
Business Administration has been 
ranked one of the top 50 business 
programs in the country.
The UF business school jumped 
13 spots from 2010 to place 42nd in Bloomberg BusinessWeek’s 2011 
ranking of 113 undergraduate 
business programs in the nation’s colleges and universities.
It is the highest ranking for the 
school since the magazine began ranking programs six years ago.“Obviously our students are 
doing a great job in interviews and programs,” said Brian Ray, direc-
tor of the business school and as-
sociate dean of the college. 
The ranking shows the strengths 
of changes made in the college in the last few years, Ray said.
Warrington has implemented 
two new professional courses stu-
dents are required to take: public 
speaking and a professional writ-ing class. The college also began offering students a variety of mi-
nors, including accounting and en-
trepreneurship. 
Ray said professional recruiters 
placed Warrington 10th among the schools ranked.
“We are very happy with the 
rankings and pleased recruiters are seeing the talent of students,” Ray said.Business college ranks in top 50
“We are very happy with 
the rankings and pleased 
recruiters are seeing the 
talent of students.”
Brian Ray
director of the business school4, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
By SHELLEY GREENSPAN
Alligator Contributing writer
Gainesville’s first Jewish Film Fes-
tival starts today and is designed to 
entertain and educate the Gainesville community on Jewish culture.
The festival kicks off tonight with 
a screening of “The Yankles,” a movie about a washed-up, ex-professional baseball player who gets a second chance at life and love by managing a Jewish orthodox yeshiva baseball team.
Presented by the UF Hillel, the 
Gainesville Jewish Film Festival pres-ents a dynamic and exciting perception 
of Judaism and the global Jewish com-
munity, according to organizers.
Amanda Solomon, the arts direc-
tor for UF Hillel’s student leadership board and the main coordinator behind the event, said she hopes the film festi-val will highlight Jewish culture world-wide as well as erase negative stereo-types people tend to cling to.
Each night has a specific theme 
based on the importance to Jewish his-tory and Jewish identity as a whole. For six nights, broad themes, such as “social 
action” and “Jews in sports,” were cho-
sen to ensure everyone can connect to the films in some way, Solomon said.
In addition to the film, there will be a 
speaker featured after each screening.
All screenings are free and open 
to the public and will take place at the Hippodrome 
Theatre from 7 p.m. 
to 10 p.m.  The festival runs through 
March 29.
Jeannie Bobroff, a member of 
Gainesville’s Jewish community , said the film festival will inspire many local Jewish residents to get involved in the community . 
“A large-scale event like this film fes-
tival is just what the community needs to be proud of where they’re from,” Bo-broff said.Movie festival kicks offON CAMPUS
By REBECCA DANTA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The banana plant may be at risk of extinc-
tion due to the spread of a disease.
Randy Ploetz, a researcher at UF’s Tropi-
cal Research and Education Center in south 
Florida, has created a six-part plan which he 
is sharing with the banana industry to prevent 
the spread of the disease to the Western Hemi-sphere. 
Tropical Race 4, a variant of Panama dis-
ease, destroyed entire banana plantations in Southeast Asia in 1990. If the disease spreads to South America, there would be a significant impact on Florida consumers who rely on im-ports of the fruit because of Florida’s unfavor -
able environment for growing bananas.
Ploetz said if the disease does spread to 
South America, the Cavendish banana people know today would become extinct.
“I don’t have a crystal ball, so I don’t know 
when it’s going to happen,” he said. “But what has happened in the past with diseases like this is they do move.”
Ploetz’s plan lays out strategies on how to keep Tropical Race 4 out of America and what to do in the case of an outbreak. He aims to educate banana producers, researchers and anyone involved with the banana market in the Western Hemisphere.
“My goal is to let people know that this 
thing is lurking,” he said. “They need to be prepared on how to keep it away and what to do when it comes.”
Ploetz said if the disease spreads to the 
Western Hemisphere, it will wipe out entire banana plantations in countries such as Ecua-dor, where bananas are the biggest export.
“This affects virtually anyone who con-
sumes the typical Chiquita banana seen in gro-cery stores,” he said.UF researcher outlines 
strategy to save bananas
MulticulturalAffairs“This affects virtually anyone who 
consumes the typical Chiquita    
banana seen in grocery stores.”
Randy Ploetz
researcher at UF’s Tropical Research and 
Education CenterMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
off the shelves but she saw a 7-story building sway like 
a palm tree in a hurricane.
She fell asleep in her dorm room to the rocking of 
aftershocks, which she stopped feeling around mid-night.
She had read how-to booklets on what to do during 
an earthquake, but she said they didn’t help much. 
“I feel like I wasn’t really prepared, so I was prob-
ably lucky that I was at the store, where people knew what to do,” she said.
She said none of the buildings near her fell, mainly 
because newer Japanese buildings are made to with-stand strong earthquakes.
Taka Hamada, a 23-year-old UF journalism junior, 
said he couldn’t believe what had happened. His mom and younger sisters live in Hiroshima, which is on the country’s west coast. He said they are safe.
He kept watching news broadcasts and saw the 
death count and floating bodies.
“It’s cliche, but it’s like a movie,” he said. “It’s like 
something that you never expect to happen in Japan.”12 UF students were 
in Japan last week
JAPAN , from page 1City elections will take place Tuesday
election for District 2. 
Susan Bottcher, who is running for the District 3 seat, said 
comfortable shoes are essential for campaign season, espe-
cially during weekends when she walks door to door talking to as many Gainesville voters as she can.
District 3 candidate Rob Zeller said the busiest part has 
been the dozen or so forums and paper questionnaires.
“They take a lot more time to answer than I thought,” he 
said.
But for most candidates, campaigning hasn’t been just 
hectic. Sacrifices have been made.
“I haven’t seen my kids much in the last four weeks,” said 
Zeller, who has three young children. “My daughter wants to see me more.”
His 5-year-old daughter, Lily, will have a birthday soon 
after the election, and he doesn’t want to miss it. 
 But if there’s a run-off, he’ll be swamped again.“If there’s another election, then I have to get back to the 
grindstone,” he said.
For James Ingle, who’s running for a seat in District 2, 
wedding planning has been delayed.
“I am engaged to the most patient woman in the world,” 
he said of his fiancee and campaign manager, Trisha Dunne.
The wedding itself is still on track for April 19, but Ingle 
said the campaign has made an already hectic process even more stressful.
While many candidates carefully are budgeting their 
time with the typical campaign activities, one has taken a different approach. Selwach said he decided not to take do-nations from anyone, so he has no need for fundraisers. He put $2,500 of his own money into his campaign.
He also said he doesn’t want to clutter up people’s mail-
boxes with junk, so he didn’t make campaign fliers. Nor has he campaigned door to door.
“Do you like it when you’re at home and someone comes 
and knocks on your door?” he asked. “No, you don’t.”
He’s christened his store, Best Jewelry and Loan Pawn-
broker, as his official campaign base. There, he meets with citizens and makes his case.
Candidates said campaigning has taught them about 
what they can accomplish. Campaigning even can be fun.
Angulo, another candidate for District 3, said he and his 
team were relatively inexperienced but still were able to pull off some victories, such as locking up an endorsement from the African American Accountability Alliance. 
When they found out, Angulo and 
his campaign manager were speech-less in their elation.
“We just looked at each other for a 
second, because we couldn’t believe we’d won it,” he said.
Selwach said he had fun at the Tea Party forum and felt 
relaxed. During the forum, he stood up and declared himself to be “Diamond Rick the Pawn Broker,” a parallel to “Joe the Plumber” from the 2008 presidential election.
Ingle said he’s become close friends with people he didn’t 
even know before he started running.
Because of this, he doesn’t mind going door to door every 
weekend and most weekdays. In fact, he said he enjoys it.
“People are great. I’d say nine out of 10 of them want to 
talk to you about the city,” he said.ELECTIONS , from page 1
Gainesville Cit yCommissionThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Have you ever received an automatic traffic ticket?
88 TOTAL VOTESFriday’s question: Will your Spring Break make Charlie Sheen proud? 41% YES59% NOWe understand that people forfeit some of their 
rights when they break the law. It’s just, and it’s part of the due punishment our justice system 
provides.
However, we were left scratching our heads Wednes-
day, when Florida’s state clemency board made it harder for nonviolent felons to regain those rights upon release 
from prison.
Just four years ago, former Gov. Charlie Crist saw a 
problem with the massive delays in restoring the rights 
to vote, run for public office, sit on a jury or hold specific occupational licenses. 
He granted these felons immediate restoration of 
their rights — and by “immediate,” we mean it would take months or years for the paperwork to work its way through Florida bureaucracy.
Gov. Rick Scott sees things differently, as does Attorney 
General Pam Bondi. 
They, along with other members of the board, decided 
people who have served their time and followed court or -
ders would have an additional sentence tacked on to jail 
time and restitution: five years of revoked rights. 
That’s five years before they can even begin jumping 
through hoops to get the rights back. It’s five years before 
people who normal society has a vested interest in re-as-
similating can again start feeling like a normal citizen. 
We fail to understand the board’s reasoning for this 
change in policy. 
In fact, with his vague talk and secrecy surrounding the 
decision, we suspect the governor himself doesn’t have a decent reason for it. 
There has been talk that the members of the board sim-
ply wanted to pull strings to ensure a disproportionately 
black and Democrat voting block was eliminated from the 
upcoming elections. The Miami Herald even went as far as 
to call the policy change a return to Jim Crow laws, stating that the state has “gone back a century.”
Whether that’s true and whether people agree with the 
board’s decision have yet to be seen, but we are alarmed 
by the secrecy that surrounded the change.
Meeting to vote on a proposal made public only at the 
beginning of the same meeting doesn’t sound like the Flor -
ida’s fabled “Government in the Sunshine” to us. 
Just the opposite: It sounds like shady business.
We hoped the board members would understand the 
idea of a deliberate government and at least give the op-position time to gather its thoughts and speak on a given issue. 
Instead, the governor and his ilk are using the  finesse 
of a steamroller and the speed of a jet to reshape the state to fit their vision.
When Agriculture Commissioner Adam Putnam voiced 
his concerns —  albeit weakly —  over the speed at which the board was moving, it should have sent up red flags. His objection and near-immediate coalescence speaks vol-umes about Gov. Scott’s modus operandi. 
Even if Floridians haven’t noticed it yet, our governor 
is working to get what he likes, not what the people need or want. 
And that’s a scary reality.Run-on Sentence
Delaying restoration of 
felons’ rights a crime
Freedom, fairness support traditional marriage
Freedom and fairness are two of the bedrock princi-ples upon which our nation was founded. As such, they provide potent pressure against any who ap-
pear to disfavor them.
For this very reason, people who advo-
cate for gay marriage have sought to co-opt these ideas and claim them as their own.  
What many people who favor traditional marriage fail to recognize is that these advocates are, in fact, correct. 
The debate surrounding the definition of marriage 
does ultimately depend on fundamental freedoms and fairness. 
However, these two cornerstones of American 
society favor a traditional definition of marriage.  
How is this? It’s simple. 
Every American, regardless of gender or sexual ori-
entation, is entitled to certain fundamental freedoms, and society has accommodated these freedoms and 
balanced its interests against those of the individual.  
Marriage is, essentially, a state-sanctioned institution 
with societal rights and responsibilities accompanying its unique status. 
Thus, our society has a vested interest in maintaining 
the institution’s integrity. 
What is this interest, though?  
Is it the stability of the institution? 
Although this argument has merit, it falls short. Con-
sider that interracial marriage was once expressly for -
bidden, but it is widely accepted today.
Is it the economic aspect of marriage? Again, this argument might have merit, but it is 
weak. 
Economic reasons are seldom sufficient when dis-
cussing issues of fundamental freedoms and fairness.  Is it to protect the rights of the par -
ties involved with – or incident to – the marriage? 
This answer is closer to the 
truth. 
Keep in mind that the state pro-
vides tax benefits for the marriage. 
It also oversees probate pro-
ceedings when one partner in the 
marriage dies. 
It even enforces child support and custo-
dy agreements when a marriage, sadly, fails.  
Perhaps, though, the answer lies in none of these argu-ments. 
Our society’s most compelling interest in maintain-
ing the integrity of marriage is that this institution is 
one of the hallmarks which itself defines a society. 
Thus, fairness dictates that every member of our so-
ciety has an equal voice to determine what the defini-
tion of something as fundamental as marriage will be.  
At the moment, society has accepted the traditional view that marriage is between only one man and one 
woman. 
This prevailing view may change, though, as the 
electorate becomes increasingly younger. 
Because of this possibility of change, the people who 
favor traditional marriage must continue to advocate 
for their beliefs.
They must embrace the powerful ideas of freedom 
and fairness by encouraging others to exercise their 
voices in advocating for a traditional definition of mar -
riage. 
Zack Smith is a first-year law student. His column ap-
pears on Mondays.
Zack Smith
letters@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
President Barack Obama on Monday rescinded his two-
year-old directive banning military tribunals at Guan-tanamo Bay . In a new executive order, Obama clears 
the way for resuming military trials at the naval base. This is regrettable, considering the president campaigned on — and 
committed to, once taking office — closing Guantanamo with-
in a year of his inauguration. Still, the concession is a prudent one. Guantanamo is a nearly impossible issue, one that may be black-and-white in moral terms but is very gray in practice, and the reforms that the president has included in his most re-cent order alleviate much of what Americans have found so distasteful regarding the military base.
In order to deal with the 172 prisoners currently detained 
at the naval base, the new executive order reinstates a system 
allowing prisoners to be tried by military courts. Numerous 
obstacles have stood in the way of trying prisoners in civilian court and have forced them into legal limbo and indeterminate detention. The new executive order remedies this by allowing prisoners either to be tried on-site by a military tribunal or to make 
a plea bargain. Because many detainees were tortured to ob-tain information, evidence gained from such tactics would be thrown out in court, weakening the prospect of conviction.
The new order attempts to solve this problem by requiring 
compliance with international treaties barring inhumane treat-ment. But a fundamental problem remains: Because evidence obtained under duress is inadmissible — even in these military tribunals — the government faces a “Sophie’s choice” between releasing or illegally detaining people it reasonably believes to 
be terrorist threats. This is the problem of Guantanamo.
Perhaps most important of all, the order establishes a pro-cess of periodic review by several federal agencies of the pris-
oners’ threat to our security . This will decide whether prisoners should be tried, released or transferred to another country. 
Nonetheless, the new executive order fails to address many 
core issues pertaining to Guantanamo. Administration officials 
have insisted that the president remains committed to closing 
the base in the near future, but the order sheds little light on when that will be. And because Obama made it clear that the order only applies to current and not future detainees, it is un-clear how the base will be used in coming years.
The new decision has left the long-term plans for Guantan-
amo up in the air. Commendable as this executive order is, it is far from resolving an issue that has remained a sore point in the United States for years.
By T ufts Daily Editorial Board, T ufts Daily, T ufts University 
via UWIRE
Obama’s Guantanamo about-face a necessary concessionUWire
Tufts Daily
Editorial Board
UWire
Like many functions of the state, authori-
tative traffic precautions were imple-mented for the purpose of collecting a 
revenue stream under the guise of safety. The most outrageous measure has been an effort 
to squelch driving violations through the use 
of automated ticketing machines or ATMs. If a motorist runs a red light, a camera takes a picture of the vehicle and then sends a ticket through the mail to crack down on running red lights.
Besides the creepy Big Brother implications 
of these measures, the machines come with a number of reasons to be prohibited. The cam-
eras ignore the basic function of due process by automatically ticketing drivers, relinquish-
ing their ability to immediately contest viola-tions. Most importantly, though, studies show the cameras actually lead to an increase in in-tersection accidents in complete opposition of 
the program’s hopes.
Redflex Traffic Systems Inc., the company 
that manufactures ATMs, earns a portion of 
the revenue, partially to pay for the devices. But even more egregious, this company gets to dictate where the cameras are installed based on a location that is profitable, not necessar -
ily one that promotes greater safety. In line with the profit motive, numerous cities have 
been caught shortening the duration of yellow lights, in a “dangerous 
fundraising initiative,” according to the Huff-ington Post. 
Regardless of any benefits from the use of 
ATMs, the machines ignore the premise of “in-nocent until proven guilty.” Due to the reality that traffic cameras are incapable of differen-tiating between an automobile owner and the actual driver, the machines send tickets to the owner of the vehicle. In addition, many citi-zens have been ticketed for taking legal right-hand turns, being treated the same as those who blatantly have violated red lights. 
As the money-making ATMs have been in-stalled in 450 communities nationwide, stud-ies have assessed the effectiveness of these en-forcement mechanisms. As many would not expect, the University of South Florida found that traffic cameras “significantly increase 
crashes and are a ticket to higher insurance 
premiums.” Instead of proceeding through yellow lights, drivers slam on the breaks to avoid tickets and often end up increasing the amount of rear-end collisions at intersections.
The state always claims to hold the intent 
of safety and concern for the citizenry, but this is no solution to traffic control. 
By Taylor Lutz, Daily Evergreen, Washing-
ton State University via UWIRE
Generating revenue is real goal of automated traffic ticketsUWire
Taylor Lutz
UWireBy KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
I’d never been to Mardi Gras 
before, or even to New Or -
leans, but I was instructed to 
expect the worst.
I was told men would follow 
me with beads, begging to see my goodies. I was told urine and al-
cohol would flow in the streets. I 
was insane, they said, for going. 
That would have been awe-
some if that were the case. I pride myself on my ability to rage and 
ride the chaos until the booze 
wave drowns us all. 
But Fat Tuesday wasn’t exactly 
what I expected.
I arrived Monday evening and 
checked into my fancy hotel near the French quarter. My rag-tag foursome was only slightly out of place among the old and rich. 
They were dressed for the opera; 
we were dressed for a zombie apocalypse.
We got ready in our room, then 
headed out for Zoolu, a ware-house rave in the central business district. 
But first we made a detour to 
Bourbon Street, the fabled Mardi Gras headquarters. The street was barricaded, 
shut down and filled with stum-bling, doe-eyed drunks.
Men leered from centuries-old 
balconies, pointing and shout-ing at girls on the street to show 
their breasts for plastic beads. 
The girls giggled and said, “Me?” Everyone drank fruity iced cock-tails from tall, skinny plastic gob-
lets and wore blinking jewelry 
bought from strolling light-up-toy vendors.
Though there was a general 
sense of lawlessness and a faint 
smell of ganja, none of it felt 
spontaneous or out of control. Bourbon Street was a dirty, booze-fueled Disney World that smelled 
like vomit and human waste.
We moved toward Canal Street 
through the hoard of revelers and 
past mounted police officers to our final party destination, which 
was packed with thousands of 
young people. 
My friends and I danced and 
goofed off while acrobatic girls 
dangled from the ceiling. Some 
crazy man in a wacky bodysuit blew up a giant plastic bubble, then danced his way inside of it.
The show went on until 3 a.m., 
and then we moved to another club for the after-party, hang-
ing out in VIP until about 6 a.m., 
when we decided it was time to hit the road.
I woke up on Fat Tuesday 
sometime after noon to the sound 
of parades outside my window. 
When I made it to the street, I found the whole town taken over by every kind of person in the 
world. 
Instead of cars, bright and col-
orful floats with different themes 
drove down the streets, hip-hop and top-40 songs blasting from 
their speakers. Riders cheered, 
threw things and waved. Candy, beaded necklaces and confetti showered the bystanders of all 
ages. About 1 million people at-
tended.
I reflected on the fact that this 
is a religious holiday, but Mardi Gras is even more godless than 
Christmas shopping, although 
perhaps just as commercialized. No one had praying on their minds, but they were spending a 
lot of money.
We began moving away from 
the main arena and north on De-
catur Street, past Cafe Du Monde and toward Marigny.
The farther we walked, the 
fewer lost tourists we found and the more interesting things be-came. We started seeing fewer 
people in sad blue wigs and 
feathered boas in exchange for more intricate garb. Instead of families and cute couples, we met crusty kids and street bands. 
I got the sense we’d stumbled 
into the more interesting side of the party.
As the sun went down, the 
street opened back up for cars to drive squeamishly over the filth. Beaded necklaces got caught in turning tires, popping and spark-ing as they were crushed. Mounds 
of garbage lined the sidewalks, 
which were covered in a glisten-ing, slimy mess of who knows what. The smell was unholy.
When the clock struck mid-
night, it officially became Ash Wednesday. The partiers of Bour -
bon Street were kicked off by a barrage of police headed by the 
kind of religious screamers who 
yell their sermons on Turlington Plaza.
Back on Decatur, some peo-
ple still hung on, dancing in the streets and on cars while a trav-eling band played a few tunes. But the festivities basically were over.
I expected the party to keep 
going. But, nope, that was pretty much it. Back to Florida I went, with a handful of beads, a bad 
hangover and a few stories that 
hold no water to those of Charlie Sheen.
But at least I got laid.8, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator 
Cars drive over beads and trash left behind from a parade on Canal 
Street in New Orleans on Tuesday.
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator 
Mardi Gras children sit in a stroller on Frenchmen Street in New Or -
leans on Tuesday.
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator 
A woman climbs on top of her friends to catch more beads on Bour -
bon Street in New Orleans on Tuesday.
Uneasy in the Big Easy
Mardi Gras fails to live up to the hypeMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
10, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff
March MadnessWith all due respect to the holiday season, March Madness really is the most wonderful time of the year. Feel free to use the bracket on Pages 12 and 13 
and challenge us in our bracket challenge online at alligatorSports.org, where fame and fabulous prizes await the winner. Searching for helpful hints, tips and tricks to solve the mystery of the NCAA Tournament? Look no further.
However, there are going to be a lot of upsets. Pick at least two dark horses per region, even if it means choosing teams randomly to do so. Sometimes, that’s the most effective method.Don’t go overboard with the upsets. Higher-seeded teams are usually seeded higher for a reason.
Just go chalk. This is about money. You won’t 
win any popularity contests, but those are for politicians and homecoming queens. You know who else isn’t very popular? Mark Zuckerberg. But his cash keeps him company. 
Beware of teams entering the Tournament 
amid a major slump or with injuries (examples: Villanova, Georgetown, Florida State, BYU) or those entering on a hot streak (especially conference tournament winners).Pay attention to location. Keep an eye on trendy Big East teams faced with the disadvan-tage of being shipped out West.Think about the conference. A 28-4 team in the WAC obviously isn’t as good as a 28-4 
team in the Big East.
Teams seeded 7-11 this year are all essentially the 
exact same: pretty decent.
Even though you’re close to the situation, try to 
stay far, far away from it. Don’t get caught up in the orange and blue and blindly predict Florida into the Final Four. You’ll hate the Gators when it’s all said and done if you lose your pool because of them.MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 11
alligatorSports columnists give a lesson in NCAA Bracketology
Final Four: March Madness is back, and 
you know what that means: It’s time to make 
“educated” predictions on games that in-volve two teams you have never even seen bounce a basketball before.
So, I might as well throw out my wild opin-
ion: Ohio State, UConn, Kansas and BYU.
That doesn’t sound too crazy . But I like the 
idea of Kemba Walker and Jimmer Fredette 
carrying their teams deep into the tournament.
Dark Horse: Belmont. 
This team has won 
Tournament games in the past, and it has the depth to make a run this season. Eleven of Bel-mont’s players average double-digit minutes.
FloriD a Forecast: 
The Gators have pretty 
good depth too.
As a No. 2 seed for the first time since 2003, 
Florida finds itself in prime position to do some 
damage this time around. 
The Gators should get out of Tampa and to 
the Sweet Sixteen without a problem, but that’s where it will end for them.
A rematch against Jimmer and BYU is sure 
to await them in the third round. And as you can see by my Final Four predictions, I think the Gators will lose that game.
It has been a good year for Florida, but it is a 
little over its head with a No. 2 seed. UF’s shoot-ing is too inconsistent to make a deep run. 
I don’t think a team that loses to Jacksonville 
and UCF should ever be rewarded with such a high seed.
BYU will expose that and will end UF’s sea-
son for the second consecutive year.Final Four:  Ohio State, Kansas, Pittsburgh and San Diego 
State. 
You don’t need to be reminded about that time the Buck-
eyes walked into Gainesville and cruised to an 18-point vic-
tory. Kansas will be carried, like it has all year, by the Morris twins. You never root against twins. They’re just too cute. 
Pitt is as tough as any team in the nation. As long as they 
keep the score close late in the second half, you have to be-
lieve the Panthers’ guards will be able to carry them to victory . And San Diego State? Why not. It just seems like the Final Four 
would be more fun with them at the party. 
Dark Horse: Missouri. The Tigers 
have been a disappointment since Big 
12 play started, but with a little luck, 
they have the potential to upset any-
body . Coach Mike Anderson, who worked at Arkansas during the 40 Minutes of Hell days, implements a nasty press that has keyed a couple unexpected runs in past tournaments. 
Remember 2004, when Anderson 
led UAB past No. 1 Kentucky in the second round? Or how about 2009, 
when No. 3-seed Mizzou fell minutes short of the Final Four?
Cincinnati, I’m putting you on notice. And Connecticut, 
watch yourself. You’re next.
FloriD a Forecast: The Gators could not have scored a 
much luckier draw. If the opening weekend goes chalk, UF will have a pretty favorable Sweet Sixteen matchup against BYU. 
The hot-shooting Stormin’ Mormons could have made a 
deep run, but Brandon Davies was seduced by a real Fanny Alger — if you know what I mean. While Davies was search-ing for treasure like Joseph Smith, BYU’s national title hopes tanked.
Florida will walk off the court winners, and Billy Donovan 
will be as popular as top Utah citizens Deron Williams, Matt Stone and Trey Parker. You bastards! 
But that is as far as Florida will get. A loss two days later 
will keep the Gators from their fifth Final Four trip.
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberry
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org 
Twitter: @Chiang_Reaction
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @JettStreaminFinal Four: Ohio State, UConn, Kansas, Pittsburgh.
This year’s NCAA Tournament could either prove to be topsy-turvy 
and upset-filled or predictably chalk. I’m leaning toward the latter at this 
point, taking three No. 1 seeds and a streaky No. 3 seed. Kemba Walker can send UConn deep into the Tournament on his own, and this is the 
type of year where an elite player can make a true impact because the 
field is so weak.
While I definitely don’t love either team, I’m taking Kansas over Ohio 
State in the championship game, and the Jayhawks’ Marcus and Marki-eff Morris become the nation’s most beloved twins since the Olsens.
Dark Horse: I’m breaking the rules and taking two No. 13 seeds 
here: Morehead State in the Southwest, and 
Belmont in the Southeast.
There are few players I like more than Eagles 
big man Kenneth Faried, who averaged 17.6 
points, 14.5 rebounds and 2.4 blocks per game while leading Morehead State to a 24-9 record. If Vanderbilt falters to Richmond in the first round and Morehead State upsets Louisville, the Eagles have a clear route to a Sweet Sixteen matchup 
against Kansas.
Belmont, meanwhile, won 30 games and 
reeled off 19 victories in the Atlantic Sun. The 
Bruins haven’t lost since Jan. 25. While I love No. 4-seed Wisconsin’s 
red-headed, Jewish sensation Mike Bruesewitz, Belmont is more than capable of earning a Sweet Sixteen date with Pitt by beating the Badgers and either Kansas State or Utah State in the second round.
FloriD a Forecast: While they certainly seemed worthy with a 
four-game winning streak leading up to Sunday’s loss to Kentucky, 
the Gators were fortunate to pull out a No. 2 seed — and even luckier to be placed where they are.
The Southeast sets up well for Florida, which can breeze by UCSB in 
its first game. If Michigan State finds its footing, the Spartans could be a 
difficult draw in the next round, but UF is cohesive enough to advance.
BYU would have presented a thrilling rematch in the Sweet Sixteen, 
but the loss of Brandon Davies will likely keep the Cougars from mov-ing past the first weekend. UF, then, should have its way with St. John’s 
provided a last-minute switch of venue to Madison Square Garden.
The Gators’ remarkable run will come to an end, however, against 
Pitt in the Elite Eight.MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011n  ALLIGATOR, 13 12, ALLIGATORn MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
14, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
“Red, are you shitting me? V egas, 
four days, all expenses paid for the NCAA Championship. Out of 
sight. Yeah, I’m definitely in.”  
Red, my bookmaking partner, makes me 
seem Spartan. With him, anything done to ex-cess equals success.
If Red lifts the phone, he bets $10,000. He 
bets everything: football, hoops, hockey, base-ball — anything. 
Red bets with a big-time Brooklyn bookie, 
Dennis.  
Because he’s a gambler, Dennis vacations 
in V egas. He takes action all year, then relaxes 
by gambling. 
I’ve watched Dennis throw craps. He cov-
ers every number with 5-large, then backs up 
his initial bets with $5,000 more by taking the “free odds.”  
That’s $60,000 a roll.  During a four-day holiday, Dennis donates 
Dumpsters of money to casinos. Casinos treat Dennis well. 
Because Red’s betting allows Dennis to 
finance his own compulsion, he tells Red, “Come with me to V egas. Bring anyone you want. Just sign my name. Everything’s on the house.”
Red and I are partners and great friends, 
but no way can I compete with his appetite for drugs, women or gambling.
Red needs a babysitter. He thinks I’m right 
for the job. 
Screw that. I’ll nip this in the bud.  I pack my bag, set the alarm for 6 a.m. and 
head for my local pub. The dilettante behind the bar over serves me.
Paralyzed, I pass out on my couch at 5 
a.m.  
When the alarm rings, I awake, dressed 
and drunk. I head for Vegas.
The cab driver drops me at Stewart Interna-tional Airport where Red awaits. 
“Where the hell you been, man? I was wor -
ried about you. I didn’t think you were going to make it. Jesus Christ, you’re shitfaced. It’s 6:30 a.m. How did you get whacked so fast?”
“I’m still drunk from last night. I need a 
screwdriver or a Bloody Mary or something. I’m f***ing dying.”
We board the plane and are assigned the 
last two seats on the left aisle in the back. 
I gasp to the stewardess, “How soon before 
I can get a drink?”
She laughs, “Shortly after airborne, we’ll 
start cocktail service.”
True to her word, after we lift off, she starts 
hauling me and Red screwdrivers. 
We start slamming screwdrivers as if the 
aircraft is delivering us to the gallows. The sugar from the vodka and O.J. resurrects me.
I shift to full party mode.  I’m laughing, but 
obnoxious. 
It’s not yet 8 a.m. Old ladies crowd these 
junkets to play slots. I can feel intense, nasty stares.
Being a belligerent drunk, I begin breaking 
balls. I lean forward and yell, “Come on, you 
old goats, loosen up. You’re on your way to 
V egas for Christ’s sake.” 
I’m so whacked even Red’s embarrassed. I laugh loud and hard. When it happens, I 
can’t catch my breath. When I try, the air intake sounds like a hyena. The laugh is either infec-tious or annoying. It depends on the amount of whiskey poured. 
At the moment, it’s unbearable. 
To avoid me, Red rises and chats up the 
two stewardesses. He tells the girls that he and 
I are heading to Vegas to bet $200,000 on the championship game and paints a charming fairytale about the attaché case in the overhead being stuffed with the “mob’s” money. 
Airlines were still civilized in 1992, so the stewardesses are gull-ible knockouts.     
After a couple hours 
on the plane, most passengers have had 
enough. Red and I are 
laughing away , still pounding screwdriv-ers, when a foghorn voice stuns me.
“You the two guys 
making all the noise 
back here?”
I squint through the boozy fog. My one 
good eye rests  on what appears to be a hairy , dungaree-clad cement truck. 
We’re going to have a beef, and this guy 
seems to have us outnumbered. He’s the whole package: motorcycle boots, spiked leather wristbands, chains — a central casting Hell’s Angel. 
Then, a surprise.“You guys sound like fun. Here’s my con-
tribution.”
He extends his hand and places in mine 
a lovely montage of pharmaceuticals, reds, blues, yellows. 
I’m relieved and say , “Thanks, man. You’re 
a sport.” 
I chase them down with a belt from the 
screwdriver.           
I wake up and glance first at my watch, 
then at the three crumbled-up bills on the night stand. What happened? Where am I? 
It’s 9:30 p.m. I’m in a hotel room.  “Oh, shit, the game.” I need a drink.I hit the shower and head for the nearest 
bar. I hear screaming coming from the packed lounge. The circular bar is wrapped around four TV sets, all tuned to the championship 
game.I wade through clouds of tobacco smoke 
and spot Red roaring between the two stew-
ardesses from our flight.
“What the hell happened?” I ask, saddling 
up next to the blonde.
“Oh my God. We thought you’d get us 
fired. No one could wake you up. We took you off the plane in a wheelchair.”
“A wheelchair? Jesus Christ. Then why are 
you two here?”
“Well, before you passed out, you were a 
lot of fun.” 
Halftime rolls around, and Mike Krzyze-
wski’s Blue Devils are crushing Michigan, so I finally grab Red’s attention. 
“Hey man, fill me in later on how you got 
me up to the hotel room. Meanwhile, how 
does that expense account thing work?”
He says, “Just eat and drink wherever you 
want in the hotel, then sign Dennis’ name and 
room number.”
“Cool. Hey girls, you want to have a bite 
to eat?”
Three hours later, the check for $1,400 in-
cludes steaks, wine, champagne and buckets of Courvoisier V .S.O.P . 
After our feast, the girls and I enter the ca-
sino. Three security guards have a drunken, angry Red at the wrong end of their revolvers. I freeze at the entrance then pirouette 180 de-grees. I don’t stutter. 
“Come on, girls. This is no place for us. Let 
me show you my hotel room.”
Red never calls me to baby-sit anymore. 
Somehow, I feel cheap and used. Where did 
I go wrong?      
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam veteran, former 
Bronx firefighter and pub and restaurant owner. 
O’Connor is currently a journalism major at 
UF and a standup comic. The irreverent and acerbic O’Connor performs free standup around Gainesville. Vegas trip for Big Dance yields more than simply March Madness
Bill O’Connor
Confessions of a 
New York Bookie
sports@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Regular-season champion: 
Arizona (27-7, 14-4)
How they did it: 
Derrick Williams carried the Wildcats all season long, as he was the only player to average double figures in scoring with 19.1 points per game. He also led the team in rebounds and blocks per game, while shooting 61.5 percent from the field and an incredible 60.3 percent from three.
Tournament champion: 
Washington (23-10, 11-7), defeated Arizona 77-75 in the final
How they did it: 
After an underwhelming regular season, the talent-ed Huskies got hot at the right time, winning three games in three days to claim the Pac-10 Tourna-ment championship. Washington was led by the talented inside-outside duo of senior forward Mat-thew Bryan-Amaning (15.5 points, 8.1 rebounds per game) and junior guard Isaiah Thomas (16.8 points, 6 assists per game).
Player of the Year: 
Derrick Williams, Arizona sophomore forward (19.1 points, 8.1 rebounds, 0.7 blocks per game)PACIFIC-10
Regular-season champion: 
Florida (26-7, 13-3)
How they did it: 
The Gators won the SEC championship with their balanced scoring, as four players averaged between 11.3 and 14.4 points per game. Senior Chandler Parsons displayed why he is one of the nation’s most versatile players, leading the team in rebounds and assists per game.
Tournament champion: 
Kentucky (25-8, 10-6), defeated Florida 70-54
How they did it: 
As is becoming tradition with John Calipari’s teams, the Wildcats relied on a crop of supremely talented freshmen. Brandon Knight (17.5 points, 4.2 assists, 4.0 rebounds per game) and Terrence Jones (16.5 points, 9.0 rebounds per game) lead a team that only gives six players significant minutes.
Player of the Year: 
Chandler Parsons, Florida senior forward (11.5 points, 7.8 rebounds, 3.5 assists per game)SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE
NATIONAL STORYLINESHOW THEY GOT HERE: COLLEGE BASKETBALL SEASON IN REVIEW
The Cougars made positive and negative headlines 
this season. Led by senior guard Jimmer Fredette, BYU stormed out to a 27-2 record and a No. 3 rank-ing. But days after the Cougars completed a sweep of San Diego State, sophomore forward Brandon Davies was suspended for the season due to a viola-tion of BYU’s honor code. The Cougars have been a different team without Davis, finishing the year 3-2.BYU ROLLER COASTER
The Big East displayed its strength from top to 
bottom, earning an unprecedented 11 bids to the NCAA tournament. The Big Ten made a late surge to get seven teams in the field, followed by three conferences with five (Big 12, ACC and SEC) and the Pac-10 with three. The Mountain West also emerged as a national presence, as San Diego State and BYU earned top-three seeds in the Big Dance.BIG EAST DOMINANCE
For the first time ever, the NCAA Tournament 
features 68 teams in 2011. The Tournament will be structured as it normally is, though there will now be a pair of “First Four” games, where the final four at-large teams compete for 12 seeds and the lowest-ranked four conference champions compete for 16 seeds.BIG DANCE GETS BIGGERRegular-season champion: 
North Carolina (26-7, 14-2)
How they did it: 
The Tar Heels got off to a relatively disappointing 17-6 start before winning nine consecutive games. UNC is led by freshman Harrison Barnes, who got his college career off to a slow start but has aver-aged 22 points per game in March.
Tournament champion: 
Duke (30-4, 13-3), defeated North Carolina 75-58 in the final
How they did it: 
After losing explosive freshman superstar Kyrie Ir-ving early in the season, the Blue Devils had to lean heavily on seniors Nolan Smith and Kyle Singler, who responded in a big way. 
Player of the Year: 
Nolan Smith, Duke senior guard (21.3 points, 4.6 rebounds, 5.1 assists per game)ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCERegular-season champion: 
Kansas (32-2, 14-2)
Tournament champion: 
Kansas, defeated Texas 85-73 in the final
How they did it: 
Kansas dominated opponents on the interior thanks to junior twins Marcus and Markieff Morris. The frontcourt duo averaged a combined 30.9 points and 15.4 rebounds per game.
Player of the Year: 
Marcus Morris, Kansas junior forward (17.3 points, 7.2 rebounds per game)BIG 12
Regular-season champion: 
Ohio State (32-2, 16-2)
Tournament champion: 
Ohio State, defeated Penn State 71-60 in the final 
How they did it: 
The Buckeyes played only seven players but still had the nation’s most complete team. With fresh-man Jared Sullinger dominating inside and senior Jon Diebler raining threes, the Buckeyes were the last remaining unbeaten at 24-0.
Player of the Year: 
JaJuan Johnson, Purdue senior center (20.5 points, 8.2 rebounds, 2.3 blocks per game)BIG TEN
Regular-season champion: 
Pittsburgh (27-5, 15-3)
How they did it: 
Pitt grinded out win after win with an experienced lineup and physical play. The Panthers rank eighth nationally in rebounding and run their half-court of-fense as well as any team in the country.
Tournament champion: 
Connecticut (26-9, 9-9), defeated Louisville 69-66 in the final
How they did it: 
The Huskies became the first team to ever win five Big East Tournament games in five days behind a heroic performance from junior Kemba Walker, who averaged 23.9 points, 5.4 rebounds, 4.3 assists and 1.9 steals for the season.
Player of the Year: 
Ben Hansbrough, Notre Dame senior guard (18.5 points, 4.3 assists, 3.9 rebounds per game)BIG EAST
Jocelyne Sanchez / Alligator Staff16, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
The Landings. 
All-Inclusive 3/3 ONLY $439
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
Hurry March rent free!! female sublease,
utlities inluded,private bath, furnished or
unfurnished, clean female roommates,
washer dryer included, bus line, 348 a month
352 260 7967
3-16-11-4-1
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.
Avail. 8/15$900/mo. call 877-833-2865   3-25-11-10-1
Bellaproperties.net
Quiet Graduate CommunityLuxury,Spacious 2/2 and 2/1 with loft/Must See/Starting at $283/Bedroom/Available August 2011/Call Today (352) 335-5424    3-17-11-4-1COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!
·         Available NOW and August!
·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly
352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 Tranquility 500 sqft Only $489-559
IMM Lease $500 rent credit
w/wrap lease rent credit & NO MIFees
Limited Time! 352.376.1248
4-20-11-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
18, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis
●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$4492/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-15-11-34-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    3-24-11-40-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-15-11-24-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com3-15-11-19-2House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-25-11-22-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
3-18-11-10-2
3BR/2BA, 1940sq.ft. Quiet neighborhood. 
1.5 miles from U.F. Large fenced yard, wood floors, 2 car garage, and sun room. Available 5/1. $1100/month. 3936 SW 3rd Ave. 352-359-1270    3-25-11-15-2Large 1/1 in quiet neighborhood next to 
Oaks Mall. Walk to shops, bus routes, cafes. 
Screened porch, lots of storage. Move in by 
4/1 get one month free. 1 yr lease minimum. 
Discount for longer leases. Rent $500/mo. 
call 305-992-2832 or pazos.lu@gmail.com   
3-22-11-10-2
1BR/1BA, 5 blocks from Shands & UF. Quiet 
complex, parking, walk-in closet, W/D. $550/
mo. Call 317-2642 or 371-9520    3-23-11-
10-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts
3 BLKS TO UF & Downtown!
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms, Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.
Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo $600 Deposit
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.216 SW 12th Street.
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, LaundryOn site. $500/Mo1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit
3-31-11-15-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, W/D included, furnished common area. 352.514.3398.    3-31-15-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
After Spring Break,
there are less than 6 weeks 
left in the semester!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds$325 Summer Sublease May-July for 
Gainesville Place Apartments.1/1 in a 4/4, 
Comes fully furnished with washer and dryer, 
utilities included $325! Many bus routes.
allison.lynch@yahoo.com    3-21-11-7-3
$449/Mth Crossings @ Santa Fe: 3/3 furn; 
share kit,liv room,w/d, each room has priv bath. Lease up 8/11, stay for the rest of March free. Add'l fees req'd with the Crossings Contact Cathleen 561-685-2729 or kitkat3612@bellsouth.net   3-16-11-3-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 poolside condo at Countryside. Easy com-
mute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, 
W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. nukken1@
aol.com Text 850 585 4405, 386 676 9703
3-16-11-5-4
Roommate wanted $400. 3/2
Grad student preferred. Quiet Lakefront 
house. 1/2 utilities. 352-281-2200 or 
Welchds1@bellsouth.net   3-17-11-5-4
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Roommate wanted
New 2/2.5 Fully Furnished except for bed-
room in Grantwood Condominiums 2.5 miles 
from UF
$550/month includes utilites & WiFi
Contact Kourtney 352-422-1448    3-25-10-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-51997 3br/2ba Fleetwood mobile home. 
Located in Whitney Park on hwy 411 in 
Gainesville. Carpet and appliances less than 
2yrs old. $18,500. call 352-327-5986 leave 
message.    3-18-11-5-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still 
in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!
All models between $200 - $400 off! All come with one year parts and labor warranties! Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
3-31-10-38-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-1292 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...
Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!
Call Gary at 352-682-8838,
email dlimotors@yahoo.com or
stop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      3-18-11-70-13 
20, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp 
runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITORNETWORK ASSTSALES CONSULTANTSCEO ASSISTANTFull time positions.Send resume to hr@gleim.comwww.gleim.com         3-14-11-10-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-25-11-21-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
Experienced swim lesson instructor needed 
for local program. Part time hrs either in mornings or late afternoons. Please email resume with lesson experience and 3 refer-ences to jwilby@cox.net   3-16-11-10-14
Great deal!
Brand new home, perfect for college student, 
quiet community. 3 bed, two bath. Wont last. 699/mo Call 904-992-0141    3-18-11-10-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Project Manager/Account Director wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-
14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN 
or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or 
send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Lifeguard-Certification Required
$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.
State Mental Hlth Treatment Fac
Call Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-
18-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT 15-40 hrs/wk - M-F, 
9am-6pm. $7.25/hr. Excellent Word, typing, 
internet & Excel skills. Indicate available 
hours, major, graduating semester.
OMA.office@yahoo.com   3-14-11-5-14
The Village, an upscale retirement commu-
nity, is seeking a full-time Nurse Manager. 
The ideal candidate will have the following 
skills / experience:
- Current and valid license in the State of 
Florida as an RN
- Experience with Memory Support
- One to three years experience in a geriatric 
setting
- One to three years management experi -
ence
- Excellent interpersonal skills-Please see www.thevillageonline.com/jobs 
for more information!      3-28-11-14-14
MULCHING, PRUNING & MOWING
Daytime assistance needed for gardening. Flexible hours. $12/hr. Located north of Hwy Patrol Station. Email resume to:jaythaw@bellsouth.net    3-15-11-4-14
CARE GIVER needed for Autistic 24 year 
old man. $12-$14 per hour Experience or training with special needs a plus. Email oc4444@bellsouth.net or fax to 352 371 3320    3-18-11-5-14
Web Design Internship
in busy marketing department
$10 hr. & monthly travel stipend
Ocala, Florida
352.291.4537 ext. 7444
human_resources@otowfl.com
DFWP/EOE
3-18-11-5-14
P/T babysitter wanted for fun 2 yr old, now 
through fall. $12/hr, refs/resume required. Must have reliable transportation have expe-rience with kids under 3, patience, creativity. Email nannyforfam@gmail.com.    3-18-11-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing students to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – July. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must en-joy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experiences a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com   3-17-4-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordable
Grammar, conversation, vocabulary
Contact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     
3-16-1-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696
3-31-20-15
HORSE BOARDING
Watermelon Pond, trails, training, privacy, open stall. $325/mo. 330-329-8834 or chriswriterbuerki@gmail.com   3-15-11-10-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16CHOW NOW FOOD TRUCKTuesdays 11am till 1:30pm
Behind Emerson Hall    3-15-11-2-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
FOUND DOG:
Male, neutered. NW 6th St area Friday 2/25. 
Mixed breed, medium size. Call 205-218-7595 to identify.   3-15-3-25
FOUND MEN'S WEDDING RING
Flavett soccer fields. Has inscription. Call to identify 407-923-1775      3-15-3-25CPR training is back!
Need CPR/AED or 1st Aid?
Meets internship requirements
FloridaHeartsaver.org
(352)575-0119                        4-8-20-16
● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF students
GatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.      3-18-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
SportsALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org monday
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
By JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
The No. 1 Gators faced the 
same question week after week 
throughout the season. Could 
they win back-to-back national championships?
As coach Mike Holloway 
maintained throughout the year, 
repeating wasn’t a concern for 
his team. They were just “focused on 2011.”
But once the repeat was ac-
complished, Florida finally let loose.
“This is the kind of stuff you 
dream about as a kid,” heptath-lon All-American Gray Horn 
said. “To go out and do some-
thing incredible.”
The Gators won the NCAA 
Indoor Championships in Col-
lege Station, Texas, with 52 total 
points, 12 more than second-place and host Texas A&M.
But halfway through the meet, 
this weekend’s win seemed like it 
wouldn’t come to fruition.
Florida scored just eight points 
Friday with junior Will Claye’s 
second-place finish in the long 
jump, which was lower than Hol-
loway’s anticipated 12-15 points.Things began to look even 
more bleak for the top-ranked Gators when they trailed No. 
5 Brigham Young by 16 points through the first eight events.
“We had a lot of fight in us, and 
we showed that,” Holloway said. “We never worry about anybody else. We just needed to come out 
and be Florida. And that’s what we did.
“We had some bad luck,” Holloway continued. “People wanted to know what was wrong with Florida. There was nothing 
wrong with Florida.”
Thanks to the efforts of indi-
vidual national champions Claye 
(triple jump) and sophomore Jeff 
Demps (60m dash), as well as 
All-American performances by Horn (heptathlon), junior Chris-tian Taylor (triple jump) and Dumisane Hlaselo (men’s mile 
run), the Gators scored 34 points 
in the final nine events to clinch the meet.
Gunning for his third consecu-
tive national title in the triple jump, Taylor finished second to Claye.
“We had some adversity,” 
Holloway said. “But I told them 
that true champions respond to 
adversity.”
In addition to becoming just 
the fourth school to win consecu-
tive NCAA Indoor Champion-
ships, UF also saw a few of its athletes set several records.
Claye set a school and an 
NCAA meet record with his 
17.32m/56-10 mark in the triple 
jump. Horn’s 5,890 points in the 
BRACKET CHALLENGE POLL QUESTION ONLINE alligatorSports Podcast
Today’s question: How far will the Gators 
men’s basketball team advance in the NCAA Tournament?n Want to catch up on what you 
missed in the world of Florida sports over Spring Break? Then head over to alligatorSports.org, where we’ve been updating every day.n Check out alligatorSports.org, sign 
up and compete against your favorite Alligator writers in our online Bracket Challenge. If you beat sports editor Adam Berry, a grand prize awaits.n Greg Luca, Jesse Simonton and 
GatorBait.net’s Kyle Maistri join host Adam Berry to discuss a wide range of topics involving the NCAA Tournament bracket and how Florida will fare.Cheryl Treworgy - PrettySporty.com / Alligator  
The Florida men’s track and field team poses after winning the 2011 NCAA Indoor Championships  in College Station, Texas, on Saturday. UF is the fourth team to win consecutive national indoor titles.
UF TRACK & FIELDNo. 1 Florida repeats as national indoor champion
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alliagator.org
 
ATLANTA— In the first two games 
of the Southeastern Conference Tour -
nament, the Gators were able to over -
come slow starts with dominant sec-
ond halves. 
But Sunday, their late-game magic 
finally ran out.
No. 15 Kentucky (25-8, 10-6 SEC) 
came out of the gate strong and never 
let up, outmuscling No. 12 Florida (26-7, 13-3 SEC) 70-54 to claim the SEC Tournament Championship. 
“The difference, I thought, was we 
weren’t physical enough,” UF coach Billy Donovan said. “I just didn’t think that our frontcourt guys, when they got the ball, did very much with it.”
Starters Alex Tyus and V ernon 
Macklin combined for 12 points and only eight shots, as the Wildcats de-nied post feeds and forced the Gators’ big men away from the rim. 
Florida was 
equally ineffective driving the ball to 
the hoop, which led 
to Kentucky taking 29 free throws to Florida’s eight. 
“The game was 
won at the free-throw line,” Donovan said. “When someone takes 21 more free throws than you, it’s hard to over -
come.”
The Gators’ inability to score from UF falls to UK in SEC final
Men's
Bask etball
Adams
SEE TRACK, PAGE 24
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 24SEE HOOPS, PAGE 24By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
Sunday was like déjà vu for Gators fans.
For the second time this season, No. 1 Flori-
da (14-2) fooled its opponent with a hidden-ball trick in a crucial situation, as UF swept Rhode 
Island with an 8-6 win in McKethan Stadium.
Just like when Florida executed the play-
ground trick against Boston College, Sunday’s feat came with two outs and after a game-tying 
RBI by the opposing team.
“As long as it keeps working, I’m all right 
with it,” junior Preston Tucker said. “They had 
a lot of momentum going. … Anything that can 
get us out of that inning can help us a ton.”
Holding on to a 1-0 lead in the top of the sec-
ond, Florida starter Karsten Whitson (3-0, 2.21 
ERA) allowed three straight Rams batters to 
reach base, walking catcher Milan Adams then 
giving up singles to third baseman Dan Haver -
stick and second baseman Pat Fortunato.
Fortunato singled to center to score Adams, squaring the game at 1-1 and giving the Rams two baserunners. 
That’s when the Gators pulled off the sand-
lot tactic.
Center fielder Bryson Smith bobbled the 
ball in the outfield before tossing it to second baseman Josh Adams, who never gave the ball 
back to Whitson.
Moments later, Adams tagged Haverstick 
out at second to end the scor -
ing threat and halt the Rams’ 
momentum.
“I really wasn’t planning 
on keeping it,” Adams said. 
“He just kind of got off the 
bag, and I tagged him. … 
Whenever you can take outs 
like that, you do it.”
Following the play , the 
Gators tacked on three unanswered runs over 
the next three innings to take a 4-1 advantage.
After closing the gap to 4-3 in the top of the 
sixth, it was Adams who again pulled the rugGators sweep Rhode Island22, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
UF SOFTBALL
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
While it wasn’t a perfect weekend, it was cer -
tainly close. 
After losing to No. 16 Nebraska on Saturday , 
the No. 2 Florida softball team (25-1, 2-0 SEC) re-
sponded with a 10-2 drubbing of South Florida to finish a 4-1 weekend at the USF Under Armour Showcase in Clearwater. 
The Gators rebounded in a big way with nine 
hits, including three home runs, after being shut out for the first time all season Saturday . 
Led by the hot hitting of Megan Bush, UF scored 
double-digit runs for the eighth time this year. 
The senior first baseman was a force all week-
end, launching three home runs, including a solo shot in the third inning against the Bulls. 
She added a sacrifice fly in the fourth and a sin-
gle in the sixth, pushing her average to .451. 
“This weekend, I was seeing the ball better 
than I ever have before,” she said. “My approach has been much more relaxed, especially with two strikes.” 
The two hitters in front of Bush, Kelsey Bruder 
and Brittany Schutte, continued to frustrate oppos-ing pitchers. 
Bruder reached base in all four plate appear -
ances and didn’t stop there. 
The left fielder scored three runs on three walks 
and a single, even stealing a base, while Schutte showed off her signature power with a three-run homer in the third and a double in the fourth. 
As one of the most experienced players on the 
team, Bush makes it her job to carry the lineup even when the younger players have struggles. 
“I want to be better hitting behind them, so they 
can get better pitches,” she said. “I’ve always put a lot of pressure on myself, but now, I’m trying to 
have fun and not focus on my mechanics and just 
hit.” 
Although sophomore Ensley Gammel allowed 
two runs and walked three, the Gators’ pitching staff performed well all weekend. 
Freshman Hannah Rogers 
drew the start and earned her 11th win, tossing four scoreless innings. Senior Stephanie Brom-
bacher, meanwhile, improved to 14-0 and said UF’s high-scoring offense has taken a lot of pres-sure off her this year. 
Despite taking the loss against 
Nebraska, Rogers has firmly es-
tablished herself as a dependable and dominant complement to Brombacher. 
While the Gators weren’t able to pull out the 
win against the Cornhuskers, Brombacher said the game was tight and was a good test against a top-flight pitcher. 
“The loss doesn’t define us,” Bush said. “We 
know we’re not going to go undefeated now, but we don’t play to not lose. We want to win, and we’ll never go out there and play scared.”Gators bounce back, rout Bulls
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
While one member of the UF 
women’s tennis program received recognition for a career-spanning achievement Sunday , another found her first success of the sea-
son.
Before the No. 1 Gators lined up 
to face Auburn at Linder Stadium, 
UF coach Roland Thornqvist was recognized for his 300th career win, which came Feb. 18 over Miami.
Thornqvist humbly accepted a 
plaque for his achievement before Florida (15-1, 4-0) breezed through 
a quick 4-0 dismantling of the Ti-
gers (2-12, 0-4).
The Gators continued their suc-
cess on the doubles courts, coming up with wins on Courts 2 and 3 only 47 minutes after play began as all three Gators doubles pairings overpowered their opponents.
Lauren Embree and Joanna 
Mather overcame a slow start and put together the best showing on Court 2. They quickly turned a 3-0 deficit into a 7-3 lead, then wrapped up the match with an 8-4 win.
But the highlight of the day 
came when sophomore Brittany Borsanyi saw her first singles ac-tion of the season. 
Borsanyi matched up with Au-
burn’s Taylor Cohen on Court 6 in her first singles match since last 
April.
“ [ B r i t t a n y ] 
played what I 
thought was flawless tennis,” Thornqvist said. “She made good decisions with the ball and looked 
as sharp as she has in the two years 
she’s been at Florida.”
Borsanyi left with a 6-0, 6-1 vic-
tory, exemplifying the efficient at-
titude Thornqvist has consistently looked for in his team this season.
“It was an amazing feeling to be 
out there,” Borsanyi said. “That’s probably what made me play so well.”UF storms past AU
Bush
Tennis
What’s on the Web
Diver Dodson qualiﬁ  es for NCAAs
Florida senior Monica Dodson once again led the Gators diving teams at the NCAA 
Zone Diving Championships in Athens, Ga., qualifying for the 2011 Women’s NCAA 
Swimming and Diving Championships on Saturday. Dodson, the only UF diver to 
qualify for this year’s NCAA meet, has gone to the championships the past three 
years. “Monica knew what she had to do, and she stepped up big time and got it 
done,” UF coach Donnie Craine said. “I’m looking forward to seeing what she 
can do against some of the best divers in the country.”
alligatorSports Podcast and Video Show
No school, no paper — no work? Not so fast. Alligator sports editor Adam Berry joine d basketball beat writer Greg Luca on the journey to Nashville, Tenn., for Florida’s 86-76 win over Vanderbilt that clinched the Gators’ ﬁ  rst 
regular-season SEC championship since 2007. The duo brought back an array of multimedia content for your enjoyment, including a special, on-location video show and a podcast recorded in Adam’s Toyota Echo while driving 
on Interstate 75.
While you were enjoying your time away from Gainesville or mourning the often-miserable Spring Break weather, every Florida 
spring sport was in action. Be sure to check out alligatorSports.org for full coverage of everything you missed. Here’s a brief glimpse.
UF lacrosse crushes O’Leary’s alma mater
As a two-time All-American in lacrosse and ﬁ  eld hockey, Florida coach Amanda O’Leary led 
Temple to a 19-0 record and the 1988 national championship in her senior season. Despite 
O’Leary’s familiarity and good rapport with Temple, the No. 14 Gators (6-1) did not  take the 
Owls lightly. Sparked by a 9-0 run, Florida cruised to a 19-4 on Saturday in Dizney S tadium. 
The Gators continued to display their offensive diversity, as at least seven players scored a 
goal for the fourth consecutive game. Kitty Cullen led UF with ﬁ  ve goals and added an assist.
Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 23
24, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
Gators confident poor showing vs. Kentucky won’t carry into Tournament
Over the course of the season, the Gators have found 
that losses force them to take a closer look at the things 
they can do to get better. 
After victories, the team typically focuses on keeping 
its momentum going instead of evaluating its imperfec-tions. The Gators have yet to drop back-to-back games 
this season.
“When you win, I think it doesn’t show the mistakes 
that you made in games,” sophomore guard Kenny Boyn-
ton said. 
“We can watch this film, see the mistakes that we made 
and correct them to be ready for the first round of the 
NCAA Tournament.”Before the selection, the team was adamant that its 
seeding was irrelevant. But the Gators admitted location 
would be significant. 
Of the eight potential regional sites, 
Tampa was by far the closest. 
“I would think we could have the 
most fans and be able to pack the house,” Walker said. “It’s always good to have.” 
Still, Donovan and his players em-
phasized that every team is strong at this stage of the season, and each game will be hotly contested. 
The Gators figure to be prepared, as 
they are confident that one bad showing won’t affect the way they’ve played over the past month. “This will blow over,” Boynton said. “We’re going to 
get right back to where we were.” 
Returning to form will be critical, as the Gators will 
face the UCLA-Michigan State winner with a victory over UCSB. 
If seeding holds, Florida would square off against BYU 
in the Sweet Sixteen and Pittsburgh in the Elite Eight. 
“It’s definitely a whole new season,” Walker said. “Ev-
erybody is 0-0, and it’s new life. We’ve just got to be ready to go.”
If their words are any indication, the Gators are pre-
pared for Thursday and beyond. 
“You have to come out ready to play like it’s the last 
game you’re ever going to play,” freshman center Patric 
Young said.BASKETBALL , from page 1
Demps, Claye lead Florida 
with individual indoor titles
TRACK , from page 21Trick play shifts momentum; Adams drives in three
out from under URI. The senior belt-
ed a bases-clearing, three-RBI double 
to center to extend UF’s lead to 7-3.
“Momentum kind of swung our 
way,” said Adams, who led the Gators with seven RBIs on the week-end. “It was one of those things to get 
the team going and give everybody a little comfort feeling there at the end.”
URI threatened to nullify Adams’ 
efforts in the final two frames, as the Rams tagged freshman righty Matt Campbell for three runs in the eighth 
before right-hander Anthony DeS-
clafani (1.50 ERA) came in from the 
bullpen to record his second save of the 
season.
DeSclafani pitched 
1.1 scoreless innings but allowed two run-ners to reach base in 
the ninth before striking out pinch 
hitter Greg Annarummo, giving the 
Gators their fourth straight weekend series sweep to open the season.
Etc.: The Gators tied a season high 
by stranding 12 runners on base, nine 
of whom were left in scoring posi-tion. … Mike Zunino is 4 for 4 steal-
ing bases this season after swiping 
second in the fourth. … The Gators’ 14-2 start matches their best since 
1992. … Righty Keenan Kish made his collegiate debut Saturday, while 
junior right-hander Justin Poovey made his first appearance Friday. 
Both tossed scoreless ninth innings.BASEBALL , from page 21
Scoreless stretches, outside shooting halt UF’s run
HOOPS , from page 21BaseballWalker
“Coach just set me aside and told me to 
run my race. It’s a nice track. It took me 
a while to adjust to the surface.”
Jeff Demps 
UF junior sprinterheptathlon set a UF record, and Demps broke a 
school record by winning the 60m dash in 6.53 seconds, surpassing his winning mark last year 
by 0.04 seconds.
“Coach just set me aside and told me to run my 
race,” Demps said. “It’s a nice track. It took me a while to adjust to the surface.”
Even the normally reserved Holloway finally 
let loose with his athletes after completing the 
comeback in historic fashion, enjoying the team’s consecutive NCAA crowns.
“I feel amazing right now,” Holloway said. 
“Just so amazing.”the line proved to be critical, as they also struggled from 
the field. 
Florida shot just 38.6 percent for the game, includ-
ing a combined 7 for 26 from guards Erving Walker and Kenny Boynton. 
“We weren’t aggressive enough attacking the paint,” 
Walker said. “You’re not going to shoot the ball well 
every game. … You’ve just got to battle through that.”
Florida managed to keep it close with strong defense, 
holding Kentucky to just 41.7 percent shooting. The Gators hit a few major slumps in the contest, go-
ing scoreless for a 7:09 stretch in the first half and a 5:28 
stretch in the second half.
“I don’t think they did anything different from when 
we played them a couple of weeks ago, but I think they 
did a great job,” Boynton said. 
Freshman Scottie Wilbekin sparked UF with eight 
points in a 1:15 stretch despite entering Sunday scoring 
2.5 points per game.
After Florida took a 24-21 lead, the Wildcats re-
sponded with a 10-0 run to gain an advantage they would never relinquish. 