We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 72 THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
Man charged with shining laser at helicopter
FORT MYERS, Fla. (AP) — A southwest Florida man 
has been charged with shining a laser light at a sheriff’s 
office helicopter.
The Lee County Sheriff’s Office reports that 29-year-old 
Michael Wayne Smith was arrested and charged Tuesday.
Deputies were flying about 600 feet above Fort Myers 
when they noticed a green laser hit the cockpit. One depu -
ty reported that the light hit him in the eye and temporar -
ily impaired his vision.
Smith was being held without bail set. Jail records 
didn’t say if he had an attorney.n  Sophomore first 
baseman Austin 
Maddox’s six-inning 
blast into the 
O’Connell Center 
parking lot helped 
lead Florida over 
North Florida 4-1 
on Wednesday. 
See Story, Page 18.By EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
UF employees will keep their jobs, but 
students can expect to see a 15 percent tu -
ition increase as a result of statewide bud -
get cuts for education that were approved in the last Florida legislative session.
In a speech given to the Rotary Club of 
Gainesville at the Paramount Plaza Hotel 
on Tuesday, UF President Bernie Machen 
announced this and other plans to com -
bat budget cuts — cuts that have hit the 
university for the fourth time in the past five years This round of cuts  will leave the 
university with a budget about $54 million 
lighter than last year.
“We’re not overjoyed having the fourth 
budget cut in five years,” Machen said in 
an interview, “but I can see how we can 
get through it without dismantling pro -grams.”
Rather than cutting personnel or pro -
grams, the university will look to other 
methods to reduce the budget. 
For example, UF is discussing plans  to 
increase tuition, rearrange employee ben -
efits and use money typically reserved for 
university purchases toward existing pro -
grams.
The state legislature approved an 8 
percent tuition increase, and UF plans 
to bridge the budget gap by seeking the 
Board of Governors’ approval to increase 
tuition by the maximum of 15 percent.
Students’ pockets will take an addi -
tional hit in the fall as Florida legislators 
decided to cut Bright Futures scholarships 
by about 20 percent.
Students aren’t the only ones affected 
by the state’s cutbacks.
Under another bill passed by the leg -
islature, state employees will be required 
to contribute 3 percent of their salaries to 
their retirement plans beginning July 1.
Machen said he sees this as an addi -
tional budget cut for UF employees and is 
looking into benefit changes that may al -
low the university to compensate for this 
reduction in salary.
He also addressed the legislature’s ap -
proval of a new program that will give 
incoming students the option to take on-
campus classes only during the spring and 
summer semesters.
The program, to be implemented in 
January 2013, could bring up to 2,000 new 
students to the university.
In addition, UF is looking into actions 
such as expanding distance-learning pro -
grams and increasing out-of-state student 
enrollment as part of a three-year plan 
to generate revenue in case state funding 
doesn’t rebound. 
“We’re not assuming that it’s going to 
get a lot better,” Machen said. “We’re just 
hoping it doesn’t get a lot worse.”
n See page 8 of 
the Avenue for a 
map and detailed 
descriptions of 
upcoming music 
festivals around 
the U.S., including 
Bonaroo and 
Lollapalooza!Partly 
cloudy
95/67FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
UF President Bernie Machen gives a speech during a Rotary Club meeting at the Paramount Plaza Hotel Tuesday afternoon. Ma -
chen spoke of budget cuts, potential incoming freshmen and a new innovation hub for entrepreneurs.
UF ADMINISTRATIONDespite budget cuts, Machen vows to keep UF jobs
n The open house will take place Friday from 
12:30 to 2:30 p.m. 
ALLIGATOR STAFF REPORT
The Independent Florida Alligator, the largest student-run 
publication in the United States, will be hosting an open house 
this Friday from 12:30 to 2:30 p.m at its office located at 1105 W. 
University Ave.Students from all majors and academic backgrounds are 
welcome to come. The open house will give students an oppor -
tunity to meet and speak with head staff about opportunities 
available at the paper. Pizza will be served. 
“ Even if you think, ‘Well, they can’t be look -
ing for some clown like me...well yeah, we are,”  
said CJ Pruner, editor-in-chief of the Alligator. “I 
am confident there are a lot of bright, talented in -
dividuals out there who could offer something special to our 
publication.” At this time, the Alligator is seeking writers, columnists, 
photographers, copy editors and anybody looking to gain ex -
perience. 
“The Alligator is a great place to get solid clips that employ -
ers take seriously when they recruit,” said Joey Flechas, the pa -
per’s managing editor. “Many writers for this paper secure jobs 
and professional internships from the work they do here, but 
more importantly, they make life-long friends.” 
Interested students should bring a resume, samples of their 
work and any ideas they may have to improve the paper. Alligator invites students (yes, you) to open house
NewsLocalNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub -
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 72 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR  n  THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, 
  aorlando@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simontom, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Lily Parkinson, 
  Bryan Holt
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Joel Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Claire Grady,
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern,
  Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials. If you 
find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or send an e-mail to editor@
alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Campus Crusade for Christ 
Barbecue
Today, 6 p.m.
Yulee Pit
Everyone is invited to Cru’s 
first event of the semester. All of 
the food will be provided, so all 
you have to do is show up! We 
will be playing games as well. 
Underwater Hockey Summer 
Practices
Mondays 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. and 
Wednesdays 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Florida Pool
Come join UF’s underwater 
hockey team at its summer 
practices and learn about this 
unique sport! Underwater 
hockey is a fast-paced game
played on the bottom of the 
pool. Equipment will be pro -
vided. Interested students a 
bathing suit and a Gator1 ID. 
NATIONAL
Hershey, sheriff hopeful 
spar over campaign signs 
LANCASTER, Pa. — Candy-
maker Hershey says a Pennsylva -
nia sheriff candidate’s campaign 
signs are a tasty case of trademark 
violation.
The chocolate company says 
Lancaster County sheriff candidate 
Mark Reese lifted the font for his 
campaign signs from the compa -
ny’s Reese’s candy logo. Hershey 
says that’s a violation of its copy -
right.
A campaign spokesman says 
The Hershey Co. agreed to let Re -
ese continue to use the campaign 
materials already made for the up -
coming primary.Tenacious dog escapes Or -
egon veterinarian office
MEDFORD, Ore. (AP) — After 
three late-night escape attempts 
from an Oregon veterinarian’s of -
fice, a German shepherd named 
Jack finally made it.
The Medford Mail Tribune re -
ports the crafty canine managed 
to pull open his kennel, trip the 
dead bolt on the clinic’s back door 
and pull down the handle to get 
outside.
He set off three motion-detec -
tor alarms on the way and man -
aged to rip open four bags of 
food.
The dog roamed seven miles 
from the vet’s office, but only 
made it home when animal con -
trol officers took him to a shelter 
where he was reunited with his 
worried family.
A veterinarian calls the dog’s 
recovery from flu like symptoms 
“impressive.”
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSIf Reese wins, however, the 
campaign will change its font.
Hershey spokesman Kirk 
Saville tells the Intelligencer 
Journal/Lancaster New Era that 
the candy company doesn’t en -
dorse political candidates. The 
company is based in the town 
of Hershey in neighboring Dau -
phin County.
—     THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
S. Calif. city bans coffee -
house nudity, gambling 
GARDEN GROVE, Calif. — 
Bare-breasted baristas will have 
to cover up after police officers 
discovered nudity and illegal 
gambling going on at so-called 
lingerie cafes in a Southern Cali -
fornia suburb.
More than three dozen of the 
coffeehouses are operating in 
the Orange County city of Gar -
den Grove, and some waitresses 
have been slipping out of teddies 
to serve customers in the nude. 
Additionally , arcade machines 
have been rigged to be gambling 
machines.
The Orange County Register 
reports Wednesday that the City 
Council has voted 4-0 to ban nu -
dity , gambling and smoking in 
the sexy cafes.
—     THE ASSOCIATED PRESSPARTLY
CLOUDY
95/67THUNDER
STORMS
94/68THUNDER
STORMS
87/66THUNDER
STORMS
85/64PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/63MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011 n ALLIGATOR , 3
By JASMINE EARLS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students in Gainesville are reaping the 
benefits of cutting their wardrobes as a num -
ber of consignment businesses in Gainesville 
are offering students an opportunity to dump 
off  their old clothes, collect some cash  and 
shop all at the same time. 
For local owners of such stores, the sum -
mer months have seen a spike in business. 
“The summer season is the busiest time 
of year for us,“ said Alicia Bonamie, store 
manager for Plato’s Closet. “We’ve been 
swamped for like a month.”
Cendra Gire, owner of Cecile’s, a local 
consignment shop, said the economy might 
be to blame for the influx of garments.
“With the economy in the position it’s 
in, we see a lot more people selling clothes 
than in the past,” Gire said. “Some need the 
money for books, electric bills, and some just 
want to get rid of their stuff.”
Students bring in their freshly laundered apparel. The store clerk checks the clothing 
for holes. If it passes inspection, the student 
walks away with cash.
On average, for one or two garbage bags 
of clothes, a student can walk out with any -
thing from $25 to $75.
“We hear the stories, and a lot of them are 
going out and just want something new,” she 
said.
Ryan Ramezani, 23-year-old biology stu -
dent, said he didn’t spend 
any money in the store, but 
walked away with padded 
pockets.
“I went in, let them look through it and 
walked away with 75 bucks,” Ramezani 
said. “That was the easiest 75 dollars I ever 
made.” 
The influx of students coming in to trade 
their old gear for monetary gain has prompt -
ed the store to expand.
The new Plato’s Closet will be located on 
34th Street and University Ave. and will open 
before Fall semester.Students swap garb for coinUF SENATE
By EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
In a meeting that took three roll 
calls and 45 minutes to get the 51 
senators needed to establish quo -
rum, Student Government kicked off 
the summer semester by approving 
all of Student Body President Ben 
Meyers’ executive appointments. 
“I really feel like we got the best 
of the best,” Meyers said. “We have 
a cabinet that brings very diverse 
experience, which will be able to do 
great things for the Student Body.”
Corey Portnoy, a senior politi -
cal science major, will take over as 
the new Accent chairman. Adam 
Hewko, a fifth-year political sci -
ence major, and Jeff Schnier, a se -
nior accounting major, will co-chair 
Student Government Productions 
Senior Toni Megna will take over as 
supervisor of elections.Forty-five other positions, includ -
ing those for executive directors, 
cabinet secretaries, division chairs 
and cabinet directors, were also ap -
proved by the Senate.
The newly appointed students 
will serve in their offices for a year -
long term. 
The Senate held a moment of si -
lence and passed a resolution hon -
oring the UF students and faculty 
who passed away during the spring 
semester, as well as a resolution of -
fering condolences to the University 
of Alabama and those affected by 
the tornadoes that hit Tuscaloosa in 
April.SG ratifies Meyers’ 
cabinet appointments
“I really feel like we got the 
best of the best.”
Ben Meyers
Student Body PresidentAroundGainesvilleBy HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Marilyn Wall has dressed hun -
dreds of actors who have per -
formed on the Hippodrome State 
Theater’s stage.But one of her favorite stars to 
work with was an alien.
When her three sons, Marcos, 
Miguel and Carly, were growing 
up in Gainesville, she would go 
into their classrooms and have art 
class, create plays and get the kids in touch with their artistic sides. 
There, she noticed a little boy who 
was made fun of. So she wrote a 
play about him. 
His classmates loved him after.
“He was a star for a day,” she 
said.She started as a costume design -
er at 22, but she couldn’t stitch. She 
had never even stepped in a cos -
tume shop before she helped start 
the Hippodrome, now located at 
25 S.E. 2nd Place in downtown 
Gainesville.
A year after graduating from 
UF with a degree in theater, Wall 
and five other friends came back to 
Gainesville to start a theater. Pool -
ing together about $3,000 from a 
year of work in 1973, the group 
was able to rent an old 7-Eleven on 
the condition that the three men in 
the group cut their hair. 
The six artists did everything 
for the shows: design the sets, get 
supplies, direct, act and create the 
costumes. Wall dabbled in all of it.
In 1979, the theater moved to 
the old Federal Building that had 
been used as a post office and 
courtroom. It has been a staple for 
Gainesville art since. 
“I’m amazed sometimes when I 
walk in here, the impact it’s had on 
the community,” she said. 
Out of the original six, only 
Wall and Mary Hausch, who were 
roommates in college, work at the 
Hippodrome. 
In the beginning, Hausch 
worked on costume design with 
Wall, mainly because she could 
stitch, Hausch joked.
“Since then, she’s not only 
learned to stitch but she can do 
everything else you can imagine,” 
she said.
Wall’s costumes range from 
velvet gowns to a vest with a gray baby doll sticking out like an ex -
posed womb.
“Sometimes it’s not just about 
being pretty,” she said. “It’s about 
being right,”
That precision happens in her 
design room. 
From the red dragon head hang -
ing from the ceiling, a piece of her 
first costume, to handmade wings 
and old, worn fedoras, each corner 
is a piece from Wall’s history.
 The majority of her finished 
pieces, though, are in her costume 
room in the basement of the Hip -
podrome behind two castle-like 
doors sealed by a combination 
padlock.    
Even with all the costumes she 
has created, she knows each piece 
is integral to the story. She carries 
a phrase with her through all of the 
shows and all of her costumes: “Set 
an actor free to tell their story.”
She takes everything into detail, 
from switching different tags on 
clothes to making performers think 
they’re a size smaller to bringing in 
eight pairs of shoes to make sure 
it fits the actor’s foundation just 
right. She even tells the little girls 
in her favorite show, “A Christmas 
Carol,” to spin in their dresses to 
make sure the fabric twirls just 
right. Plus, she said, the little girls 
love to do it.
“I love to sit down and talk to 
an actor,” she said. “No matter 
how many times a show has been 
done or the parts have been done, 
everyone brings something unique 
to it.”4, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Costume designer Marilyn Wall poses while mending an intricately dressed mannequin at the Hippo -
drome Wednesday afternoon.
LOCALHippodrome founder dresses the stage’s finest ADMINISTRATORS EXPECT 2,000 
STUDENTS TO PARTICIPATE..
By JESSICA KEGU
Alligator Contributing Writer
Since childhood, summer meant it was 
time for leisure and fall meant it was time 
to go back to school. UF is turning that on 
its head. 
The program, scheduled to begin in 
Spring 2013, aims to attract 2,000  students 
to the university. 
Students in the program are limited to 
on-campus enrollment during the Spring 
and Summer semesters for their four years 
at UF. During the fall semester, they will only 
be allowed to take online courses or intern -
ships for credit.
The measures are a way the university 
can admit more students without over -
crowding the already jam-packed Fall se -
mester. 
“Half of the 29,000 applications we re -
ceived were plenty qualified,” UF spokes -
woman Janine Sikes said. “We just have a 
limited number of seats to offer.” 
Students do not currently receive Bright 
Futures scholarship money during summer. 
The bill makes Bright Futures available to  
students participating in this program dur -
ing spring and summer, just not fall. 
Sikes noted that this would open up in -ternship and study abroad opportunities 
for these students.
There are still many details to work out 
before anything can be implemented, Sikes 
said. 
She said students should not be suffer 
from lack of class availability.
“Students should be able to take as 
many courses as they need to take in the 
same way as any other student would dur -
ing the fall and spring to graduate on time,” Sikes said. 
“We’ve been conditioned since we were 
children that school starts in the fall,” Sikes 
said, “but this is an entirely different ap -
proach.”
Sikes said that students would still be 
eligible to purchase football tickets as long 
as they were enrolled in online classes or an 
internship. 
While this is good news for prospec -
tive Gators, not all UF students are thrilled 
about the new program. Some, like Deanna 
Pinzon, think that despite the opportunity 
to be a part of the Gator nation, these stu -
dents won’t be getting the total package. 
“They would be half-Gators because 
they’re only getting half the experience.”New UF program: attend only in spring, summer  
By GABRIELA ROSIAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gators interested in going green now have a new option 
available.
UF students will be able to major in Sustainability Studies 
starting Fall semester.
Les Thiele, a political science professor at UF and director of 
the program, said he began working on this project a number 
of years back when a couple of students decided they wanted 
to pursue a minor in sustainability studies. 
Thiele said he had both the faculty resources and student 
support necessary to expand the program to a full-on major.Students in the sustainability movement are excited about 
the opportunity to formally study something that they have 
been working on outside of class, said UF student Ashley Pen -
nington, the outreach coordinator for the Office 
of Sustainability and a senior completing the sus -
tainability minor.
“It is a great chance to really learn about it as 
opposed to just trying to practice it on our own,” she said.
Other schools like Stony Brook University in New York, 
University of California at Berkeley and the University of Min -
nesota have also begun offering similar majors and minors, 
Thiele said. He is confident that UF’s program is unique be -
cause of the interdisciplinary nature of the curriculum as well as the development of a set of core courses created specifically 
for this major. 
The program is based out of the College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences, which allows students to explore sustainability from 
a natural science, social science and humanities perspective.
There are seven courses created specifically for the major, 
and the faculty is looking to add more courses in the future.
Students can start registering for this major starting Summer 
B, and there will be no cap on the number of students allowed 
to register. It is possible for students who are in the minor to 
use the credits earned to complete the major. 
“It’s fresh, new and rather original,” Thiele said.  “It’s not 
like they’re going to take it because it’s the sort of thing their 
parents took, so it’ll be very interesting to see how new stu -
dents react.”Students enthusiastic for new sustainability major
Seven courses will be offered at UF this fall “We just have a limited number of 
seats to offer.”
Janine Sikes
UF Spokeswoman
OnCampu sTHURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011 n ALLIGATOR , 5
AP Photo
Think you had a bad day?
Brandon Presley walks past what’s left of the roots from a 
tree in his home backyard on Wednesday, May 11, 2011 in 
Amarillo, Texas. 
ON CAMPUS
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
By May 1, life was supposed to get tougher for 
many PC users on campus. 
UF wireless was going to require security 
checks for laptops running Microsoft Windows. 
Computers without anti-virus protection and the 
latest Windows updates were supposed to experi -
ence problems accessing the system.
But the system is still not in place.
“[The wireless security checks] were not im -
plemented,” said Matt Grover, a senior network 
engineer at UF, in a voicemail. “We backed off 
due to implementation problems.”
Though Grover did not say when the system will be implemented, the May 1 edition of the sys -
tem would have only been a trial period. Com -
puters that failed the checks would still be al -
lowed onto the network, according to a UF press 
release.
The changes were scheduled in order to re -
duce identity theft and are not unlike the secu -
rity checks required to access the Department of 
Housing and Residence Education network and 
the Health Science Center network.Laptop security measure stalls
“We backed off due to implementation 
problems.”
Matt Grover
UF senior network engineerBy JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writer 
Improved four-year gradu -
ation rates and a movement 
toward a more common univer -
sity-wide experience are among 
the goals expressed by UF ad -
ministrators at Wednesday’s 
Board of Trustees meeting at 
Lake Wauburg.
Members heard presenta -
tions on the state of the univer -
sity and the vision for the future 
at the retreat.
UF Provost Joe Glover said 
the university wants to have freshman-level common cours -
es, meant to be taken by most or 
all new first-year students. 
He also spoke of the univer -
sity’s desire to 
boost the four-
year gradua -
tion rate, cur -
rently at 58 
percent, and 
the six-year 
rate, currently 
at 82 percent. 
“We are, I would say, in the 
middle of the pack with respect 
to our peers,” Glover said.To improve the rates, he 
noted an opportunity to require 
students to attend at least one 
summer term and the admission 
of a 2,000-student cohort to at -
tend the university only during 
spring and summer semesters.
Glover also touched on block 
tuition as an incentive to move 
students toward degrees faster.
Under the policy, the univer -
sity would charge tuition for full-
time students at a flat rate set at 
the cost of 15 credits.
The Board of Trustees ap -
proved the measure in Decem -
ber. They agreed to wait a year to 
implement the policy, scheduled 
to start in fall 2012.Provost urges higher grad rates
Proposes incentives
Glover
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to 
letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR  n  THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey Flechas
Josh Isom
MANAGING EDITORS
Today’s question: Do you think 
Newt Gingrich will be the GOP 
nominee in 2012?Monday’s question: Do you ap -
prove of the media’s coverage of 
Osama bin Laden’s death?57% YES
43% NO
70 TOTAL VOTESStanding on top of his soapbox in cyberspace, former U.S. 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich officially announced on 
Facebook and Twitter Wednesday his intention to seek 
the Republican nomination for President in 2012.
To this we simply say, “LOL.” 
It’s not that we find his method of announcing his political 
intentions jocular. In fact, we see the former Georgia congress -
man’s use of social networking sites to launch his presidential 
campaign as an ingenious strategy. It’s the character behind 
the text characters that we have trouble taking seriously. 
In a field that is likely include two reality TV stars and a 
woman who was told by God she needed to run for Congress, 
Gingrich looks like Lincoln. 
Yet regardless of how languid the crop of GOP presidential 
candidates has become, it is insulting to the American voter 
that he could be considered a legitimate candidate from a 
mainline party  given his unflattering past.  
There’s no question about his ability to wage a formidable 
challenge to a Democratic president in a general election, es -
pecially given the resurgence of right-wing fervor seen with -
in this country in the last few years. His political moxie and 
swordsmanship  make him an attractive candidate for many 
conservatives, Republicans and those who have felt scorned 
by the Obama administration’s inability to deliver its banner 
message of “Hope and Change.” As a House Speaker, he was 
able to lead a Republican charge on Capitol Hill that saw his 
party take control of both legislative houses in 1994, a feat that 
hadn’t been seen since the 1950s. With the right amount of mo -
mentum and financial cannon fire, he could get the keys to 
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. 
For the United States, such a development would be a scary 
thing. 
While on Capitol Hill, Gingrich went out of his way to 
thumb his nose at Democrats. At times, he did it in the pur -
suit of Republican policy. Most times, however, he did so for 
no other reason than to politically grandstand, to show the 
White House who exactly controlled the lower house. His 
unwillingness to work with the Clinton White House during 
the federal  government shutdown crisis of 1995 shifted the 
tides of public opinion against his party as Americans saw the 
Speaker as nothing more than a glorified politibrat throwing a 
toy store temper tantrum.  Given the country’s current politi -
cal climate, a Gingrich presidency would act as nothing more 
than a blustery tornado of hot air descending upon a burning 
trash heap. 
If there is one thing that can out-slug his political vanity 
in a street fight of sleaze, it’s his ethical flexibility.  History 
will remember Gingrich as the first Speaker to be formally 
reprimanded by the House by a vote of 395-28 for his com -
plete disregard for legislative procedure. As one Republican 
congressman put it, “Newt has done some things that have 
embarrassed House Republicans and have embarrassed the 
House. If [the voters] see more of that, they will question our 
judgment.”
Ya think? 
We now call upon the Party of Lincoln to do the right thing 
and not give this charlatan of a candidate any more ammuni -
tion. You have a qualified candidate who has a sound fiscal 
mind and does not try to cater to extremism. Please do not let 
him fall into the jaws of party cannibals who look to feast on 
him because of where he worships on Sunday.
Otherwise it will be a huge :( for America.#whatajoke
With Gingrich bid, bar for 
GOP nomination lowered
If he can write for us, why can’t you?
About two years ago, I decided to do what millions of 
college-aged kids have done since the days when Je -
sus and the Dirty Dozen toured as a traveling family 
band: print out a resume, put on the greatest pseudo-smile 
Monopoly money can buy and apply for a job. 
Wearing an outfit that screamed “Attention everyone, 
I’m doing something very, very important today; that’s why 
I stole this outfit from my father’s closet,” I walked down to 
1105 W. University Ave., home of the Independent Florida 
Alligator. They were having their open house and hot damn 
wouldn’t you know it, the sports section was hiring.
The sports guys didn’t know it at the time, but the sec -
ond coming of Al Michaels, the illegitimate love child of 
Michael Wilbon and Tony Kornheiser, was about to walk 
through the door and lay a smackdown of awesome on 
them.  I had the metaphor magic of Rick Reilly, the drunk-
uncle-at-Thanksgiving dinner brashness of Woody Paige 
and the ocular capabilities of Stuart Scott. I had the total 
package plus the “fuzzy” channels grandpa watches at 2 
a.m.  
I stuck to the playbook during my interview, an epic 
man-flirt session with three guys in a back room office. I sat 
up straight, kept my composure and didn’t tell any Helen 
Keller jokes — not even the one about her pet dog! In one 
15-minute sit-down, I spat out more stats than Bing Cros -
by’s kids spat out teeth. “We good,” I told myself. 
But here’s where the story goes Howard Dean. About 48 
hours later, right after I had recovered from a weekend of 
celebrating my forthcoming coronation, I got this email:
“CJ — Thanks for applying for a position with Alligator 
Sports. Unfortunately, we can’t…”
How could this … wait a minute! Was it because I 
told them I liked Notre Dame? Did they find out that in 
six years of fantasy football I had yet to lock up a playoff 
victory (damn you, Steve Smith!)? Did someone leak them 
footage from my rec basketball league (think Jimmer Fre -
dette under the influence of an elephant tranquilizer after having his kneecaps bludgeoned by 
a crowbar)?
Before I could put on “The Note -
book,” crawl under the blankets and 
sob while I took scoops of Ben and 
Jerry’s “Chunky Monkey” to the 
face, I received another email, this 
time from the Alligator news desk. 
They had received my “second-
string” application and were willing 
to give me a shot at some basic news 
stories, to be done for nothing more than an opportunity to 
get another one and a pat on the back if I was a good boy. 
My first byline came in a story about a sitcom launched by a 
UF improv group. It appeared right underneath the week’s 
weather forecast.
But I kept at it. Over the next four semesters, I got to do 
things that don’t normally come up in Friday night barstool 
talk. I got to meet everyone from city commissioners to U.S. 
congressmen, meth addicts to Mormon missionaries and 
everyone else in between. I’ve had the most bizarre, twisted 
definition of fun one can have with their pants on and a 
BAC clocking in at zero.
Now, as the editor-in-chief of the largest student news -
paper in the United States, I, the backwards hillbilly from 
Brandon, Fla., who was told by his 8th grade teacher, a 
sexually repressed ex-nun with linebacker shoulders, that 
he wouldn’t amount to anything, invite you to come by this 
Friday between 12:30 and 2:30 p.m. for our open house. 
You don’t need to be God’s gift to the written word. 
We’re looking for help in all areas. It doesn’t matter if you’re 
a geek, a Greek or a Jesus freak, if you are looking to learn 
and gain some experience, we’ll be happy to meet with you. 
Just bring a resume, writing samples and some ideas. 
Oh yeah, and love America. 
CJ Pruner is a journalism senior and the editor-in-chief of the 
Independent Florida Alligator.
C.J. Pruner
Editorial Notebook
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR , 7
Letters to the Editor
local resident celebrates death 
of bin Laden, calls it historic 
moment
We got him: a man whose evil 
changed the world and defined a 
young generation. He was a fig -
urehead of evil, and he was the 
serpent in the garden. On that day 
in September, our vision of evil was 
changed from the likes of Captain 
Hook to the realities of true unfor -
giving atrocities. Our young gen -
eration experienced more real death 
and more real fear than any young 
person should ever have to endure. 
Almost ten years after his most in -
famous attack on innocent lives, the 
people who he affected most, the 
generation of children who lost their loved ones and lost their innocence, 
can celebrate for the first time in 
their lives.
It not the end of the war, but it 
is a momentous step. It’s the death 
of Darth Vader. It’s the surrender 
at Appomattox. It’s the end of the 
movie. It’s the accomplished goal. 
There is still work to do. There 
will still be scraps to clean up. But 
when your grandchildren read the 
history books, this will be the day 
they remember. This is the day you’ll 
remember. This is the last chapter of 
the story, and now we are just writ -
ing epilogue.
Thank you to the men and wom -
en serving this country , many of 
whom are our friends and our peers, who dedicated and gave their lives 
for this day.
Peter Moschouris 
Gainesville resident
n n n
In wake of tornadoes, Tuscaloo -
sa woman asks Gator Nation 
for help 
As most of you know, a devastat -
ing storm system swept across the 
South on April 27, 2011, bringing 
with it some of the most destructive 
tornadoes in our nation’s history . 
Tuscaloosa, Ala., home to the Uni -
versity of Alabama, was one of the 
most severely impacted areas. As of May 1, 2011, 40 Tuscaloosa residents 
had been found dead, with over 350 
still missing.
As we move forward from the 
initial aftermath, Tuscaloosa needs 
your help.
We all feel the rivalry between 
the University of Alabama and the 
University of Florida. And come 
football season, we will yell and jeer 
at each other just as loudly as ever
But right now, Alabama is strug -
gling. Without support, our town 
will not be able to recover. We need 
our fellow SEC supporters to come 
to our aid.
If you can give nothing, please 
pray . Pray for those who have lost 
loved ones, pray for those who are still missing and pray for those of 
us who have lost our belongings. 
My apartment is gone, but I am still 
alive. I pray daily for tose still in 
need.
If you are able to give financially , 
please consider giving to the West 
Alabama chapter of the Red Cross. 
Their main office is located in Tus -
caloosa, and they have been on the 
streets daily since the tornado. You 
can donate directly to the West Ala -
bama chapter through http://aprils -
furyrelieffund.com/ 
Thank you for your continued 
thoughts and support. Let’s prove to 
the nation what the SEC can do.
Theresa Mince 
Tuscaloosa resident
I believe that many would agree that violence against women 
(VAW) is wrong. Many would be outraged to see their sis -
ter, mother, friend or daughter suffer the trauma of rape. 
Across the globe. women fear being raped and being punished 
for it. This form of oppression cannot be tolerated and should 
most definitely not be tolerated by college students who under -
stand the fear of (sexual) violence but rely (and can count) on a 
supportive campus community instead of further penalization 
for being assaulted.
Just recently Nicholas Kristof covered a piece about a Ban -
gladeshi girl who was murdered for being raped. An older 
relative was raping the girl in her town when the rapist’s 
wife discovered them. The wife reported Hena (the 14 year 
old Bangladeshi girl) to her local mosque and the local imam 
found Hena guilty of adultery . A makeshift religious court in 
the small town sentenced Hena to 100 lashings for “adultery .” 
Hena collapsed after 70 lashings and was taken to the hospital. 
She died a week later. The doctors recorded her death as a sui -
cide. Kristof notes in his article that many Bangladeshi woman 
and girls are expected to commit suicide after being raped.
Clearly rape is not just. College students, the Bangladeshi 
government and the United Nations (UN) can all agree on this 
fact. The UN in Bangladesh and the Bangladeshi government 
agree that equality should be maintained for men and women. 
Unfortunately , the official stance of the national government is 
not upheld in the communities. The local (religious) govern -
ments tend to ignore violence against women by justifying the 
cause or by reframing the situation. For example, domestic vio -
lence is called domestic dispute and is not recognized as a crime 
in Bangladesh. The UN has found that Bangladesh is currently 
one of the most violent countries and cites domestic violence as 
one of the leading causes of violence in the country.
That being said, the local Bangladeshi government has put 
Hena’s family under police protection (from members of the 
community who are angry with the family for reporting He -
na’s death to the government) and has ordered an autopsy of 
Hena’s body . In addition, the Bangladesh press has reported on the issue, the Bangladesh civil 
society has shown extreme outrage 
about this case, lawsuits are under -
way against the doctors who pro -
claimed her death a suicide and according to Kristof, the al -
leged rapist and others involved in the case of Hena’s death are 
not being ignored.
It is important to understand when considering the implica -
tions of Hena’s death that although the government officials 
have taken action against her murder, the overall religious and 
cultural tone of Bangladesh allows for similar occurrences. As 
I have already mentioned, the Bangladesh government does 
maintain that men and women are equal, but it would seem 
(in these smaller communities at least) that the government’s 
policy on V AW issues is not the first code of conduct for many 
Bangladeshis. Kirk and Okazawa-Rey (2010 p. 266) have found 
that the cultural legitimization of male violence is not only in -
fluenced by law but by religion, education, popular culture, 
media, aggressive sports toys and games.
Changing public policy may not be enough to stop violence 
against women in Bangladesh.. It is apparent that for those in -
volved in Hena’s death that public policy was not their first 
concern. Rather, the opinion of the imam was considered, re -
spected and fulfilled. A girl died because religion mandated 
her death even though the mandate was contrary to public 
policy.
The harsh reality and complexity of this case paints a por -
trait of what violence against women (VAW) looks like on a 
global scale. It is true that even though the religious and cultur -
al atmosphere of smaller towns in Bangladesh allow for wom -
en to be punished for being raped, there are many Bangladeshi 
activists who do not support punishing women for a rapist’s 
crime. The global portrait of V AW has rich tones of oppression, 
pain and opposition, but mostly silence. Women are not given a 
voice. Women are not given the right to testify or seek legal aid 
within (Islamic) Shari’a law.
Shari’a, which translates to “the path leading to water,” has its own legal system in which women are not required to have 
legal representation. Shari’a is interpreted differently across the 
globe and tends to be viewed negatively in the West. I do not 
believe that Shari’a is inherently wrong, but it should not be 
ignored that women are underrepresented in Shari’a law and 
have been stoned for simply being in the company of a man 
that is not part of the immediate family . In 1996 a woman was 
sentenced to death for being alone with a man. Because women 
are not guaranteed representation in Shari’a law, she had little 
opportunity to defend herself against the court. Because Shari’a 
does not tolerate adultery, many times the woman is put to 
death for being alone with a man or for having any sexual ac -
tivity with a man — even if it was rape.
The problem of Hena’s rape is more complicated than poor 
public policy — it is a problem of strict religious policy that 
overrides good public policy. Hena died because religious pol -
icy is respected more than the good public Bangladeshi policy 
that respects the equality of men and women and does not tol -
erate rape.
It is important for students to understand the implications 
of Hena’s death in order to understand, sympathize with and 
stand against the global oppression of women. Here we under -
stand that rape is never the victim’s fault, but women in other 
parts of the world do not have that luxury. Women fear pe -
nalization for victimization. Hena’s rape and subsequent death 
are unjust and do not follow her country’s constitution. It is 
good, as Kristof pointed out, that her death has aroused a pub -
lic opposed to her punishment for being raped, but it is impor -
tant that this case is not repeated in Bangladesh or any country 
where Shari’a is respected more than public policy.
What we can hope for is that Bangladesh will improve their 
public policy so that religious policy that allows for the killing 
of innocent victims will become illegal. Let us stand in solidar -
ity with the women across the globe that fear more than rape: 
rape and a subsequent death sentence.
Katherine Kohler is a student at the University of Notre 
Dame.There is something wrong when being raped is a crime.UWire
Katherine Kohler
UWiretheAvenue         thursday, may 12, 2011
ONLINE:
Make sure to pick up next 
week’s issue of The Avenue 
to check out our huge summer 
movie guide, featuring the big -
gest blockbusters you can catch 
on the big screen.NEXT WEEK:PG 9:  Learn more about Di -
recTV’s controversial new Home 
Premiere service.
PG 10:  Discover UF’s new am -
nesty policy, check out our 
summer reading list and nerd 
out with Andrew Wyzan’s last 
Gamer Bait column.
PG 11:  Get ready for The 
Whigs’ Gainesville perfor -
mance and check out the first 
edition of our editorial column, 
Off The Record.INSIDE:
Get more book recommenda -
tions from our summer reading 
list and take a look at five “ori -
gin” movies we want Hollywood 
to make.
Summer music festivals offer something for everyone
By KELLY RICHARD
avenue writer
Although some music festivals like Coachel -
la and SunFest have already come and gone, 
there are still plenty of opportunities during the 
next few months to hear tunes like “Howlin’ For 
You” by The Black Keys and catch up-and-com -
ing acts like Grouplove and Dom.
While the festival circuit in the U.S. isn’t 
as highly regarded as the festivals in Europe, 
there are still quite a few that are worthy of 
note. Here’s our guide to the summer festival 
scene.
Hangout Music Festival
w May 20-22 in Gulf Shores, Ala.
w Headliners include:  Paul Simon, Foo Fight -
ers, Widespread Panic, My Morning Jacket, 
The Flaming Lips, The Black Keys and The 
Avett Brothers
Located just across the Florida border, the 
stages of Hangout sit atop white sand and 
come with a gulf view. While there’s no on-site 
camping, there are condos for rent in the area. For more information visit hangoutmusicfest.
com.
Krazy Fest
w May 20-22 in Louisville, Ky.
w Headliners include:  Against Me!, 7 Seconds, 
Lucero and Cave In
Krazy Fest offers a large number of punk 
bands. It is heavily comparable to Gainesville’s 
own Fest and even features a lineup one might 
expect to see in Gainesville in the fall. With set 
times that never overlap, Krazy Fest is one of 
the more unique festival experiences. For more 
information visit krazy-fest.com.
Sasquatch! Music Festival
w May 27-30 in George, Wash.
w Headliners include:  Foo Fighters, Death Cab 
For Cutie, The Flaming Lips and The Decem -
berists
The Sasquatch! Music Festival takes place 
at The Gorge Amphitheatre, named nine-time 
winner of Best Outdoor Music Venue by Poll -
star magazine. Its lineup boasts the largest 
current indie and dance acts. For more infor -mation visit sasquatchfestival.com.
Bonnaroo Music & Arts Festival
w June 9-12 in Manchester, Tenn.
w Headliners include:  Eminem, Arcade Fire, 
The Black Keys, and The Strokes
With over 170 performers in its lineup, 
Bonnaroo has something for everyone. It’s one 
of the largest music festivals in the U.S., bring -
ing comedians like Lewis Black and Donald 
Glover in addition to musical performers. For 
more information visit bonnaroo.com.
Vans Warped Tour
w June 24-Aug. 14 across U.S. and Canada
w Headliners include:  Jack’s Mannequin, 
Against Me!, Paramore, Less Than Jake and A 
Day To Remember
The annual Warped Tour rolls across the 
country each summer through humidity, rain 
and intense heat. The lineup changes every 
day to encourage concertgoers to arrive early 
so they don’t miss their favorite bands. Not all 
bands will be at every stop, so vanswarpedtour.
com lists which acts will be at each date. The tour will be hitting Florida from July 29-31.
Summerfest
w June 29-July 3 and July 5-10 in Milwaukee, 
Wis.
w Headliners include:  Jack’s Mannequin, 
Kanye West with Kid Cudi, Toby Keith, Maroon 
5, Kid Rock, Wiz Khalifa, and The Flaming Lips
Summerfest advertises itself as “The 
World’s Largest Music Festival.” The fest will 
be held at the Marcus Amphitheater and other 
stages nearby. Three-day passes are only $33 
if purchased in advance and more information 
is available at summerfest.com.
Rockstar Mayhem Festival
w July 9-Aug. 14 all over the U.S. and Canada
w Headliners include:  Disturbed, Godsmack 
and Megadeth
This show is for heavy metal fans. Other fea -
tured acts include Machine Head, In Flames, 
Trivium and more. The tour will be stopping in 
Florida on Aug. 13-14. For more information 
visit rockstarmayhemfest.com.Music festivals have been a big part of European music culture for a while, and America has developed an 
extensive festival scene of its own recently. Above, we’ve highlighted some notable summer festivals and 
tours around the country. More information on each can be found below.festival fever
see FESTIVALS, page 9music
 Rosa Taveras and Devan Power / Alligatorthursday, may 12, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Pitchfork Music Festival
w July 15-17 in Chicago, Ill.
w Headliners include:  Animal Collective, Fleet Foxes and TV 
On The Radio
Pitchfork’s lineup includes many of the biggest buzz 
bands around. While the number of artists is smaller than 
other festivals, the quality of acts that will perform in Union 
Park is on par.
Information can be found at pitchforkmusicfestival.com.
Lollapalooza
w Aug. 5-7 in Chicago, Ill.
w Headliners include:  Eminem, Foo Fighters, Coldplay, Muse, 
and My Morning Jacket
Held in Grant Park since 2005, Lollapalooza spans over 
115 acres. Acts like The Cars, Cee Lo Green, Bright Eyes, 
Manchester Orchestra and Dale Earnhardt Jr. Jr. will also be 
rocking the stage. Other activities at Lolla include sampling 
Chicago’s best food and discovering handmade arts and 
crafts. For more information visit Lollapalooza.com.Two tours to stop on 
multiple dates in Florida
FESTIVALS , from page 8DirecTV premiers new home service
By NICOLE LA HOZ
avenue writer
With DVD and movie theater revenues down, DirecTV is try -
ing to alleviate tight sales by going up.
The largest provider of digital TV entertainment services 
launched Home Premiere, a new video-on-demand service, in 
late April.
Home Premiere offers movies for $29.99 on DirecTV Cin -
ema at least 60 days after playing in theaters. 
Home Premiere marks the first time major studio movies 
are available at that moment and price, according to the Los 
Angeles Times. “Just Go With It,” the first Home Premiere mov -
ie released, was available 69 days after showing in theaters.
DirecTV’s website said Home Premiere movies give people 
convenience; they can enjoy releases months before they’re 
available on Netflix or DVD. Once purchased, Home Premiere 
movies have unlimited plays for 48 hours.
While it might please families, Home Premiere has filmmak -
ers and theater owners rethinking business strategies.
Twenty-three directors, including James Cameron and Peter 
Jackson, issued an open letter against the video-on-demand 
service in April. It asked studios how Home Premiere would af -
fect the movie industry.
“We ask that our studio partners do not rashly undermine 
the current - and successful - system of releasing films in a se -
quential distribution window that encourages movie lovers to 
see films in the optimum, and most profitable, exhibition arena: 
the movie theaters of America,” the letter said.
Derek Chang, who oversees Home Premiere, said in a Bloomberg article Home Premiere would help theaters be -
cause they make little revenue two months after a release.
However, Chief Executive Officer of Cinemark Holding Alan 
Stock told Bloomberg theaters’ revenues are threatened by 
shortening cinema time. On-demand movies premiere 90 to 
120 days after a movie opens.
Cinemark, as a result, isn’t screening trailers of movies 
shown on TV sooner than 90 days. It might also follow Regency 
Theaters, which doesn’t show films breaking the 90-day win -
dow; it pulled “Just Go With It” from theaters.
Paramount Pictures is not participating, and Walt Disney 
Studios is weighing its options. Warner Brothers, Universal 
Pictures, Fox Searchlight and Sony Pictures have al -
ready partnered with Home Premiere. 
Jossie Barroso, a fourth-year telecommunica -
tions student at UF, said mere patience would defeat 
Home Premiere’s premise.
“It seems too expensive when you can just wait a little lon -
ger to rent it for a cheaper price,” she said.
If the $30 price isn’t embraced, Chang said rental fees 
might go down.
“We’re testing a price point and testing a window in the 
early days of this product, and we’ll see how it takes,” Chang 
told Bloomberg. 
However, second-year UF biology student Nick Harris said it 
will always come down to price. Home Premiere may never pay 
off for college students. 
 “Thirty dollars to rent a movie when I can watch it in the -
aters two months before, or buy it a month later for $10?” he 
said. “It doesn’t make sense.”OnTV
It’s a good time to be a gamer. 
Portal 2 has finally been re -
leased to fanfare rivaling the 
second coming of the Messiah, of 
which I am woefully missing out on 
due to my accursed lack of funds. 
E3 is on the horizon, with Nintendo 
expected to kick-start the next con -
sole generation. The National En -
dowment for the Arts now legally 
considers video games an art form. 
Aside from a few buzz-
kills - I’m looking at you, Sony 
- the future of video games 
has  never  seemed  brighter.  
Sadly, it’s in this time of great rap -
ture that my tenure with Gamer 
Bait is coming to an end. For 
my last edition of Gamer Bait I 
wanted to talk about some of the games that I cherish and turned 
me into the gamer I am today.  
 
w Final Fantasy IX
Released:  Nov. 14, 2000 for 
Playstation
One of the few regrets I have 
concerning Gamer Bait is that I 
never had the chance to talk in-
depth about RPGs, a genre that has 
influenced me immeasurably as a 
gamer and nerd. This underrated 
gem from the Golden Age of RPGs 
showed me how video games could 
be used to tell an epic story with 
larger-than-life characters. 
What other artistic medium can 
combine a lecherous thief with a 
monkey tail, a gluttonous frog crea -
ture of ambiguous gender and a rat-knight 
and por -
tray them 
as fully dy -
namic and 
real char -
acters? 
This 
game blew 
my mind 
when I 
was 10, and it still blows me away 
today.  
 
w The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina 
of Time
Released:  Nov. 23, 1998 for 
Nintendo 64  
      Every boy dreams of saving the 
world and being granted a sword, a shield, a princess to save and 
evil to conquer. As the morning sun 
rose over Hyrule Field and I set out 
from my childhood home, having 
already slayed the first of many foul 
bosses, I knew that my dream had 
been fulfilled. Up until this point 
gamers never had such a huge 
three-dimensional world to explore 
with untold wonders waiting to be 
found. 
I explored every inch of this 
world on the back of my noble 
steed Epona, finding every Heart 
Piece, ammo upgrade and Golden 
Skulltula simply because they were 
waiting to be found.
From the day this game was 
released, it became a legend unto 
itself, and legends never die.10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, may 12, 2011
“Hesher” brings creativity to Hollywood
By ANDY MAROON
avenue columnist
Hollywood needs some new ideas. 
The summer of 2011 is upon us, and it seems 
moviegoers will be subject to a good helping of 
continuations, adaptations and remakes. Be -
tween mid-April and August, there are four super -
hero movies, two prequels, 10 sequels and even 
more movies based off of books or TV shows.
Hollywood needs “Hesher.”
“Hesher” is the directorial debut of Spencer 
Susser, an up-and-coming Australian filmmaker 
whose resume consists of mostly commercials 
and music videos.
Written by Susser and David Michôd, “Hesh -
er” boasts an exceptionally strong cast for a 
director’s debut. Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Natalie 
Portman and Rainn Wilson take on starring roles 
while audiences are introduced to teenage sen -
sation Devin Brochu.
The story of Hesher (Gordon-Levitt) follows 
that of the standard “traveling angel” tale, but in -
stead of a halo and white robes, he dons horns, 
crappy tattoos and a dirty Metallica T-shirt.  
The film is seen through the eyes of 13-year-
old T.J. (Brochu) as he struggles with bullies, his 
crush and the death of his mother. When T.J. ac -
cidentally ruins Hesher’s hideout, the drifter de -cides to take up residence in T.J.’s garage. T.J.’s 
father, Paul (Wilson), apathetic with grief after 
losing his wife, does nothing to get rid of Hesh -
er. Restricting himself to the couch, Paul does 
nothing to help T.J. with his problems, so Hesher 
takes it upon himself to do so. 
Using a combination of fire, harsh language 
and metal music, Hesher helps T.J. overcome his 
heartache and grow into a man - or at least at -
tempts to.
What originally interested me most about 
“Hesher” was its director, Spencer Susser. Hol -
lywood is in need of fresh ideas, and Susser 
seems to be full of them.
My curiosity in the film only heightened once 
casting choices were announced. Gordon-Levitt 
has been an all-star the past year, starring in 
Christopher Nolan’s “Inception” and recently 
landing a role in the upcoming “The Dark Knight 
Rises.”
Wilson, most widely known as Dwight Schrute 
of “The Office,” makes no attempt at humor as 
he portrays a heavily medicated, depressed 
father.  There’s always something interesting 
about watching comedy actors try their hand at 
drama.
Natalie Portman also continues her domi -
nance of the big screen with yet another versa -tile role. The chance to see Portman revert to her 
frumpy hipster ways should be enough to get any 
“Garden State” fan into a theater.
With an all-star cast and an enthusiastic, 
young director, “Hesher” has the potential to be 
a breakthrough indie-hit, snaking its way through 
the nation’s theaters like “Napoleon Dynamite” 
and “Juno” once did.
“Hesher” sees a limited release on May 
13. Theaters showing the film can be found on 
hesherthemovie.com.
WHAT TO WATCH
May 6 - Thor
Chris Hemsworth, Natalie Portman, 
Anthony Hopkins
May 13  - Priest
Paul Bettany, Karl Urban, Maggie Q
May 20  - Pirates of the Caribbean: 
On Stranger Tides
Johnny Depp, Geoffrey Rush, 
Penélope Cruz.REQUIRED 
READING 
Imperial 
Bedrooms 
by Bret Easton Elli
From the author of “American 
Psycho,” “Imperial Bedrooms” is the first 
sequel in Ellis’ catalog. Following the char -
acters Ellis introduced in his first novel, 
“Less Than Zero,” the 
author takes readers 
through the modern 
movie industry, the 
decadence of the L.A. 
elite and the repercus -
sions that come from 
living a life with no 
rules.The summer months have arrived, the 
beach beckons, and the promise of a 
lighter workload seems to be the most 
glorious thing you can imagine.Whether 
you are taking classes this summer or 
not, the undeniable sigh of relief you 
feel while thinking about the next three 
months is a welcome one. However, if 
you find yourself missing the familiarity 
of academia, we invite you to check out 
our top 5 summer reading list.
1.
Tweets from Tahrir
The compiled voice of both a 
social and a political revolution, 
“Tweets from Tahrir” showcases the 2011 
Egyptian Revolution through the voices of 
the very protestors who made it happen.2.
Sh*t My Dad Says 
by Justin Halpern
Collected from the Twitter feed of 
the same name, Halpern’s book is said to 
be one of the first books to capitalize on 
the social networking 
phase of the Internet. 
In his work, Halpern 
compiles the various 
quotes and responses 
from the feed, show -
casing the best of the 
sh*t his dad says. 3.
The Girl With The 
Dragon Tattoo
by Stieg Larsson
Larsson’s original tale of Swedish 
corruption and violence has been the talk 
of the mainstream press for quite some 
time. For those who haven’t read it, now 
is the time to get acquainted with Lisbeth 
Salander before David Fincher and the 
rest of the crew from “The Social Network” 
release the American adaptation into 
theaters later this year.4.
Bossypants
by Tina Fey
From one of the most recognizable female 
comedians today comes the story of how 
she went from doing 
amateur improv in Chi -
cago to one of the most 
successful comics in the 
“Saturday Night Live” 
lineup and one of the 
most beloved actresses 
of modern television and 
film.5.
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistIn the end, it’s back to basics
New UF amnesty policy met with approval
By SHELBY WEBB
avenue writer
As I sat in the University Police Department’s 
“classroom,” watching a slide show jam-packed 
with gory images of drunk driving accidents and 
roads littered with mangled bodies, I felt like 
something wasn’t right. 
Sure, I can understand why people who were 
arrested or cited for serious alcohol-related in -
fractions might have to suffer through this Pow -
erPoint from hell, but I had violated the alcohol 
section of the University Student Code of Con -
duct—and I wasn’t even drunk.
But my friend was, and I took her back to her 
dorm where I thought she could get some assis -
tance. Instead of help, we both got slapped with 
a hold on our records, a mandatory alcohol semi -
nar and a meeting with UF’s judicial board.
Luckily for all of you, UF has adopted a new 
policy waiving student disciplinary action under 
certain conditions. This was done in the hopes 
that all students will call for medical help for themselves or their friends during alcohol, drug 
or other health emergencies.
UF’s new Medical Amnesty Policy, known as 
MAP, aims to remove unnecessary concerns 
about disciplinary action for students seeking 
assistance in response to serious or life-threat -
ening incidents related to alcohol or drugs. 
“We hope students will think about safety 
first, so they can get medical attention first and 
not worry about the conse -
quences until later,” said 
Jeanna Mastrodicasa, a 
member of the Campus Alco -
hol and Drug Education Policy 
Committee that put forward 
the proposal.
Safety is something to 
worry about when drinking. Even though the poli -
cy is only a few weeks old, students have already 
been buzzing about it.
“I think students won’t be afraid to get the 
help they need with this new policy. It makes 
student safety a priority, which is how it always should be,” sophomore political science and mu -
sic major Collin Thompson said. 
So who qualifies for amnesty?
“It’s a case-by-case basis; we try to use com -
mon sense,” said Mastrodicasa. “If a student 
needed legitimate medical attention for a drug 
or alcohol emergency, they would probably get 
amnesty. But if there’s someone who might be 
doing things like this five times in a row, we might 
consider taking some action.”
The policy does not extend to the dorms or 
student housing, which have their own rules ac -
cording to Mastrodicasa. So even if the university 
grants you amnesty, you might still suffer some 
consequences from student housing.
“Yes, you’ll still have to meet with someone, 
but in reality, what’s important there is that they 
get the help they need,” she said.
And I agree. That night I took my drunk friend 
to her dorm, she did receive medical attention. 
And I would have sat through 500 more grue -
some slide shows to get her the help she need -
ed.the movie column 
Carter Lyles and Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staffthursday, may 12, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
The Whigs set to rock Common Grounds with DIY ethos
By KATHLEEN BOYLE
avenue writer
What do you get when you cross fuzzy south -
ern rock, rhythmic hooks and brash garage grit?  
Answer: The Whigs.  Vocalist and guitarist 
Parker Gispert, drummer Julian Dorio and bass -
ist Timothy Deaux have been stirring the rock pot 
since 2002 and are currently touring the south -
ern states in support of their latest record “In the 
Dark.”
Delivering a cohesion of infectious sounds, 
The Whigs are a gnarly three-piece outfit from 
Athens, Ga., who have released three albums, toured the world with bands such as The Black 
Keys and Kings of Leon and been described by 
Rolling Stone magazine in 2006 as “perhaps the 
best unsigned band in America.”  
On Friday the 13th, The Whigs will make their 
mark at Common Grounds at 9 p.m.
After spending a good portion of 2010 and 
early 2011 touring Europe, The Whigs are look -
ing forward to spending the next week in more 
familiar territory in the U.S. The band will be 
headlining dates throughout Florida before head -
ing back over to the U.K. as the supporting act for 
Kings of Leon.  Deaux mused over the benefits of traveling 
the States, taking on a tone of patriotic nostal -
gia as he reflected upon the pros of returning to 
America.  
“It’s been great to be back 
home and touring the states 
again. You know, the good ole’ 
U.S. interstate system with 
truck stops and Waffle Hous -
es at every exit,” he said.
Beginning in 2002, The 
Whigs understood the necessity for a young band 
to tour, so they began playing weekend shows in New York City to gain exposure.
“It is very important for a young band to break 
out of their hometown and find exposure outside 
of their regional market,” Deaux said. “Los Ange -
les and New York are the two largest markets in 
the country, and New York just happens to be a 
lot closer to Athens.”     
While The Whigs have come a long way on 
their DIY ethos, Deaux explained the band is still 
hungry. 
“You have to maintain that desire and inten -
sity to carry through to the next stage.  You have 
to stay hungry.”Throughout my time as a “music critic,” I’ve had my fair share 
of incredible moments — the sort of experiences I used to 
dream about as a music fan.
In a little more than a year, the time I’ve spent as an amateur 
music journalist, I’ve gotten to meet bands I idolized when I was in 
middle school. I’ve played sports with musicians whose records I 
spun endlessly on my first iPod in high school. I’ve become friends 
with up-and-coming artists who will eat a burrito with me now, but 
forget me when they become much more well-known one day.
Aside from all that, the most enjoyable part of doing my job is 
still bringing new content to readers and introducing people to new 
music. But all of that behind-the-scenes action has made me feel 
as though I’m a part of something notable here in 2011.
Every summer, as the air gets hotter and the weather more 
humid, music fans everywhere turn to that summertime music — 
the soaring vocals and huge hooks found in songs like New Found Glory’s “My Friend’s Over You” and Yellow -
card’s “Ocean Avenue.”
You know those songs from way back 
when you were in middle or maybe even 
elementary school. Those songs were 
popular on MTV (when MTV played music 
videos) back in 2003.
Unfortunately, the pop-punk scene took 
a turn for the worse in the eyes of many 
in the middle to late part of the decade. A 
sea of awful bands donning neon-colored 
clothes threatened to drown a genre that 
was once filled with budding young men writing angsty songs about 
girls, their best friends and everything else life had to offer.
Well, at the turn of the decade, a noteworthy tide began to turn 
as certain bands rose up as the cream of the crop in a new golden 
age of pop-punk. In 2009-10, we saw for the first time in quite a 
few years a group of bands that toured together, released music together and cemented each other as one solid contingency of a 
scene.
Last week, I had the privilege of spending a couple of days with 
my good friends in The Wonder Years, Fireworks, Make Do And 
Mend and Living With Lions during two of the Florida dates on their 
Manscout Jamboree tour.
What I saw was not just two days of honest, do-it-yourself tour -
ing and amazing live sets, but a group of about 30 people who 
treated each other like brothers.
During those two days, I realized again what I’ve already come 
to know as fact: that we really are witnessing a high point in this 
genre. 
While mainstream music continues to churn out predictable 
catchy singles and manufactured “musicians,” the pop-punk un -
derground scene is thriving on its own.
So as summer grinds along, try out some of the new wave of 
pop-punk instead of the new Lady Gaga single. Whether you de -
cide to be a part of it or not, pop-punk is rising again.
ff the Record
Thomas Nassiff
Avenue Editor
Twitter: @ThomasNassiffThe boys of summer: pop-punk is not deadClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
All-Inclusive 4/4’s
The Landings Apts.
½ OFF One Month’s Rent
$425/person
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1The Polos
ALL-INCLUSIVE LIVING*
3/3: From $444/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. $800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call Cindy 352-443-2016.    6-9-11-10-1
3/2,util inclded,w/d in unit,1st flr,2 bedrms 
avlbl,cats ok, large rms, common pool across courtyard, quite area, mostly families, 4 min to Oaks Mall bus service. Call 772-589-1870 to get pic or set up visit.  $450/mo  6-16-11-12-1
4/4 @$375 - CountrySide at UF
Utilities included, fully furnished w/private bed/bath & walk-in closet. All the amenities. Cindy 352-339-3763.    5-19-11-4-1GET THE BEST FOR LESS MONEY. 
SUMMER SUBLEASE AT THE ESTATES. 
1/1 IN A 4/4 FOR $399. CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
AND BUS STOPS AVAILABLE ARE THE 
20, 21, AND 22. NO APPLICATION FEE 
OR SUBLEASING FEE. EMAIL ME AT 
MELIMAR1103@YAHOO.COM OR YOU 
CAN CALL ME AT 786-624-0701.  5-19-3-1
GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR REDUCED 
RENT. Fully furnished or unfunished up-
graded 2 Bdrm apt w/ W/D Need mature, 
handy adult to occasionally show apts (other 
3 currently occupied) and do minor chores. 
Requires less than 4 hours/mo. Normally 
rents for $735/mo. Negotiable Sorry no pets. 
Call 727-423-9463.    6-9-11-9-1
4BR/4BA Countryside Apt furnished. Asking 
$375/mo. 2 brms avail. beg. 8/1. Rent inc. 
cable and wireless internet + util package for 
elec/water. Contact Chris at 941-726-2204 
or raginriv@ufl.edu w/ any questions.   5-31-
6-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
3bedroom Starting @ $1019
Amazing townhome with everything included! 
Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/
dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-
2801   8-15-25-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
Now Including Internet !
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
8-15-11-25-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
8-15-11-25-2AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis
●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 4752.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720
352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2Courtney Greens
1/1 *$559 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
6-9-11-43-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     5-31-11-33-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OKAvail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1375 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39375-19-30-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
5-31-11-32-2
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com8-15-25-23bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, 
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dish-
washer, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. 
No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 
16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   
5-12-11-26-2
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
2BR HOUSE 3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! 
Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $850
352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/Sorority 
Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/
heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty 
of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1335
352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2350 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
Large 4BR/2BA HOUSES 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, w/dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plen-ty of parking! . Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1980 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    6-9-11-31-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin-ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     
5-12-11-11-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south 
UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-
nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    
8-2-11-30-2
One & Two bedroom units for rent close to 
Campus! 1403 NW 6th Pl, 617 & 619 SW 
10th Lane, 1123 SW 5th Ave, 924 SW 5th 
Ave, 1015 SW 9th Ave, 111 SE 16th Ave, 
2905 & 2811 SW Archer Road 352-692-3800 
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-8-
2
Great Houses/Condos for rent near Campus 
2021 NW 7th St, 855 NW 20th St, 426 NW 
25th St, 1810 NW 23rd Blvd, 505 NW 34th 
St, 1127 NW 16th Ave, 207 NW 36th Dr, 918 
NW 3rd Ave, 2140 NW 7th Pl. 352-692-3800 
rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    5-26-11-
8-2
4BR/4BA, poolside condo at Countryside. 
Furnished common area, W/D, on UF bus 
rt, walk-in closet, cable internet, utility (w/
cap) $365.unfurn BR, $385 w/furnishing. 
nukken1@aol.com  386-676-9703    5-17-
11-5-2
4/2 great house 1 mile from UF. for rent 
beg. Aug. 1. Large fenced yard, tile floors, fireplace, new appliances. Small dog okay. Close to bus stop. 772-971-9723.   5-19-11-5-2
Baxter House Near Campus 1013 SW 4th 
Ave. 4BR/2BA, custom designed, two story brick home, W/D, new H A/C, hardwood floors & walls. Much more $2,300/mo + util. 275-1259 ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-11-8-2
1103 SW 6th Avenue Rear, 2-story brick, 1/2 
block to UF, 4BR + 2/3BA, remodeled open design, W/D, Disp, 2 A/C units, DW,MW parking, backyard, NPets, NS. Fall $2,100 + util. 275-1259, ATucker458@aol.com   5-31-11-8-2
Walk to Shands & UF.  On bus rte. Spacious 
& private 1BR cono w/tile flrs, lots of cabinets, walk-in closet, updated w/DW, disposal, W/D combo, small pet ok w/dep. Adequate park-ing $550/mo 352-371-9520 or 352-317-2642   5-19-11-5-2 
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.netClean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, stable, mature persons.●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, WDH, CHA, carpet. ●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 - $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our units are newly refurbished with all new ap-pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    8-15-11-25-2
Summer $275/month +half utilities 1br-room 
UF students 1ml to UF bus-stop free parking swimming pool fitness center free internet Cel: 3528715399, dvasquezh@gmail.com   5-17-11-3-2Bedroom + office + bathroom in my house 
with a 1-year lease. House is very high-qual-
ity, 1300 sq. foot, in the safe and quiet neigh-
borhood. All-new appliances and the house 
has been entirely remodeled! If you love to 
cook this is your house! Common areas are 
furnished, bedroom unfurnished. Rent is 
$500 + 1/2 of utilities. Perfect for grad stu-
dents. 863-781-2475 (leave msg, NO TXT) 
or keithaj1981@gmail.com    5-17-3-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. 
rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded 
kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on 
direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-
14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1600/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
Mins to UF and Santa Fe., 3&4 BR/2BA 
home's, students or families. Fenced back 
yard. Avail August. Pets allowed! Personal 
owner, 3320,3321,3331 NW 30th Place,
284-5119, $975 & $1200    5-19-11-4-2
507 NW 39th Rd 1/1 $725-hardwood floors, 
porch, w/d, pets-Y!, no pet fees, walk in 
closets, fence, close to everything Newberry 
& 39th rd, Avil now. MUST SEE beautiful 
unit. 305-586-8255 smwhite14@yahoo.com
6-9-11-9-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/
tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida 
room, private fenced backyard with patio, 
pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-1053
6-16-11-12-2
3&4 bedroom homes avail in NW Gainesville. 
Mins to UF and Santa Fe. Ideal for students/families. Pets Welcome! Avail Aug 5.
3331 NW 30th PL 3bed/2bath $975 
3321 NW 30th PL 4 bed/2 bath $1175 
Call Ricky for more info 352-284-5119    6-7-
11-8-2
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-11-13-2
3/2, 5314 nw 50th terr., culdesac, fireplace, 
garage, small dogs OK, $825, available now, Jim 375 1590   5-26-11-5-2
Condo For Rent...Only $550/mth.
Remodeled 1 Bedroom, 1-1/2 Bath in Woodside Villas...a clean, quiet community with pool. NON-SMOKING only please. Call Jennifer at 352-494-6486   5-17-11-2-2
1 MONTH FREE ★ NO APPLICATION FEE
★ Apts Starting at $350 ★ Pets OK! ★
Call Today. 
Meadowcrest Apts. 352-378-3988
meadowcrest@wbsproperties.com
6-14-11-10-2Sublease near UF Sorority Row. Beautiful 
new studio, granite counters, slate shower, 
w/d. Partially furnished. Available 5/1 through 
7/30/11. $699/month Call: Al Raymond 
(352)494-1805 or email: raydad1@msn.com    
5-24-11-5-3
FURNISHED 2/2.5 Townhome Walking dis-
tance from UF!! Taylor Square is located 
behind Norman Hall on SW 10th Street. 
Available for Sublease Summer A/C or B! 
Bring your own roommate or live alone! 
Guaranteed Parking! $450/per person, 
OBO!! Email for details: brihuck@gmail.com.   
5-19-11-4-3
1 bdrm 1 bath unfurnished $495
sublease to Aug 7th - 1.5 blocks from UF
305 776-3632                           5-12-11-2-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-501-3485    5-31-11-33-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   5-31-20-4I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412    6-2-10-4
Roommate wanted $400. 3/2
Grad student preferred.
Quiet Lakefront house. 1/2 utilities.
352-281-2200 or Welchds1@bellsouth.net
5-17-11-5-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from 
Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. 
$325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837                                 5-24-11-5-4
Room 4 rent in Lg, nice 3br home
in nw, 3 mi from campus, amenities,prefer law/med/grad student. 400/mo1/3 util. 352-256-0456    5-24-11-4-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests 
avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail 
$1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-614, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
Cash For Electronics Working or not! Lap
tops,iPods,Smarphones,iPhones,Gaming 
Systems and More! We Do repairs Too
We are located by the Beef `O` Brady`s on 
Archer RD Techmodo 352-872-5881
6450 SW Archer Rd
5-26-10-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-2UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03708-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
ART AUCTION TO BENEFIT CHILDREN'S 
CHARITY - NO BUYER'S PREMIUM! Several 
artworks with no reserve and some start be-
low $100! Chagall, Picasso, Dali, Miro, Max, 
Matisse, Pino, Maimon, Agam, Gockel and 
more! FREE food, drinks and raffle prizes 
BATERBYS ART AUCTION GALLERY- 
ORLANDO, Saturday, May 21 - 4pm 
Preview, 5pm Auction - 9101 International 
Dr., Unit 1008, Orlando, FL 32819. RSVP 
at www.baterbys.com or call (866)537-1004 
or email springauction2011@baterbys.com  
AB#2746 AU#3750    5-12-1-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. 
MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock 
ready to ship. Starting at $995.00 www.
NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N   5-12-1-10SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 Eagle Talon $1499
89 Ford Bronco II $1299
94 Ford Taurus $1299  
01 Mits Montero $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 Cadillac Deville $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $1999
98 Ford F250 $2500
96 BMW 318TI $3999 
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
99 Ford F150 $3999  
02 Chevy Blazer $4999  
01 Chevy Silverado $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit checks
Move vehicle $500 & up!
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 Ford Taurus $5999  
02 Chevy Camero $6999  
03 GMC Sonoma $6999
05 Chevy Monte Carlo $6999
352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
02 Nissan Xterra $899905 Chevy Trailblazer $9999
05 Toyota Camry $10,999  
352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
CASH for your vehicle today!
All models older and newer
Call Gary at 682-8838              5-24-11-5-12
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-
25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-
11-25-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-
25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
5-31-11-79-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     8-15-95-12THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
8-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
5-19-11-74-13 
Intelligent and Athletic?
Win up to $1,000,000!
for details visit.
www.theintelligentathletecompetition.com   5-12-11-2-13
Daytime Advertising Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout. Will
train, but experience with Adobe InDesign,
Photoshop and Illustrator is preferred.
Friendly work environment, flexible sched-
ule, with hours between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave,
M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and refer-
ences. Previous applicants are
welcome to reapply
with current schedule. EOE
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   5-31-72-14
City of Gainesville Parks/RecDept. is now hiring for seasonalrecreation and aquatics positionsCompetitive pay in great workenvironment! Apply online todayat www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-
14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-
11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village 
is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a 
Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full 
time Life Coach positions available in both 
Independent and Assisted Living. Come 
and be a part of our growing team! These 
positions play a support role in planning, or-
ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-
ment program that promotes total health and 
wellness of each resident living here at The 
Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-
ence conducting group programs with strong interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-
sion for working with older adults is a must. In 
addition to experience with social programs, 
individuals with a theology background and/or 
fitness experience are encouraged to apply. 
please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     
5-17-11-27-14
FT NANNY NEEDED AUG for 1yr;
2 boys 10&14;$12/hr; ~ 30 hrs/wk;+ bonus hrs / $$; must be exp/prof/ref/Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    5-17-11-12-14
TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS
We are a traditional summer camp in West Virginia. We are looking for both male and female counselors. Visit www.trcamps.com or call 410-833-4080 for more information.  5-24-11-14-14
ATTN SMOKERS!!!!
Need participants for study assessing the
effects of various activities on smoking. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com
5-31-13-14
FT prof NANNY needed NOW $13/hr;
3 kids under 5;M-F 48hrs;+OT/ wkds; gradswelcomed; refs/bkkg ch; billing. Span/Eng;long term; Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mailresume, pix, to gnv@nanoneone.com   5-24-11-10-14PT NANNY needed: 2 jobs avail for pms:
15 hrs/wk; var sched; 2 kids; $11/HR
start SUMMER & cont. thru Fall/Spring;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com
5-17-11-7-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working 
environment. PT/FT positions available. 
$7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 
NW 13th St   5-17-11--14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SUMMER AND FALL 2011
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
5-19-11-7-14
Female UF student caregiver needed for 
28-year-old disabled girl. Must have personal 
low-profile vehicle (i.e. no SUVs). Duties incl 
toileting & companion services. Saturdays 
9am-8pm. Other work days avail. Luxurious 
work conditions. $8-10/hr depends on exp. 
377-1306    5-12-11-5-14
MWFSat NANNY NEEDED 15hrs/wk;
6:30am; May 2 to Aug 17 min;
3 yr old twins + 1yr old; clean dmv;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com   5-12-
11-5-14
Looking for musician that can play African 
Methodist hymns for church. Starting $200/
week in Lake City. Call the pastor at 352-
209-8386 or Greg at 386-344-2449    5-19-
11-5-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. ExcellentBenefits. Please email resume toahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14Female sitter/tutor/driver for 9 & 13 yr old, 
May 2 to Jun 7 & Aug 22 to Jun 6 MTWF 
3:15p to 7:00p. Some later hrs during week & 
Sunday hrs. Strong math skills required. 20-
mile commute. Call 352-332-6465.    5-19-
11-4-14
F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, 
salary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 
352-371-4000.   6-2-11-8-14
SUMMER WORK
GREAT PAY, $14.50 base/appt 
PT/FT openings avail. 
Customer Sales/Service, 
Will train, conditions apply 
all ages 17+ CALL NOW 
(352) 505-9241
6-2-11-8-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617    8-15-11-25-14
child sitter and math tutor wanted for the 
summer for 2 boys
minimal transportation, 
Must have experience and good driving
record   Call 386-365-5313       5-24-11-5-14
Math and science tutor wanted for high 
school kids
must be enrolled in math or science/engi-
neering as undergrad/grad student. Call 386-
365-5313             5-24-11-5-14
P/T IT person. Competent to establish re-
mote access through cisco-like systems. 
Provide resume and salary request to
paulsrothstein@gmail.com   5-19-11-4-14Need ASAP, 30 Fast Typists (65+wpm)
for transcription positions. Production based
pay ranging $7-$13 hourly. Create your
own schedule, must be able to maintain
minimum of 16 hours per week, M-F 7am-
midnight. Easy walk/bike from campus to
office. Ideal for students & those seeking PT
work. This is NOT a summer only position.
Email with interest to: gnvjobs@uigfla.com
5-24-11-5-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly work
Flexible schedules
$8 an hour to start
Apply online at RGIS.COM     5-24-11-5-14
HOGAN'S GREAT SANDWICHES
now hiring  BARTENDERS\Counter Help 
Applications being accepted 9:00am-
11:00am MAY 9th, 10th, 11th at the  2327 N 
W 13th Street Location. 5-12-11-2-14
Software Programmer wanted for growing 
software company in Gainesville.
Both entry and senior level full time
positions for work on desktop application.
Programming experience required;familiarity with VB.NET and SQL Server a plus. Resumes to
employment@elitesoftware.com.
5-19-11-4-14
Exp. PRESSURE WASHING person w/ truck 
to pull trailer, pc, internet, cell; flexible hrs, 
part or full-time 'as needed', good pay. Only 
serious/dependable candidates, please. 352-
870-6017 / shaneman@symo.com    6-16-11-
12-1416, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011
MULCHING, PRUNING & MOWING
Daytime assistance needed for gardening. 
Flexible hours. $12/hr. Located north of Hwy 
Patrol Station. Email resume to:
jaythaw@bellsouth.net     5-19-11-3-14
Participants needed in a study of the
aging voice at the University of Florida.
$15 for 1 hour. Email: spl.ufl@gmail.com.
5-17-11-2-14
HTML Programmer (Part Time)
This part-time, entry level position primar-
ily involves working on websites and online 
publications for our clients using HTML, CSS 
and basic image manipulation. We code web-
sites by hand (no visual website generators 
such as Frontpage), so at least entry level 
to intermediate HTML and CSS skills are re-
quired. Graphic design and layout skills may 
be helpful, but are not necessary since most 
of the work involves adding content to exist-
ing websites. About 20 hours per week with 
flexible scheduling. The position does have 
the potential for long term growth into other 
positions within our company.
www.oandp.com/careers    5-31-11-6-14
FREE class onMaking Extra Income!
www.kaizengoldenrod.com    5-17-11-2-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    5-26-11-5-14CALL NOW! Top 5% Pay! Excellent Benefits. 
300 New T660's. Need 2 months CDL-A 
Driving Exp. (877)258-8782 www.melt-
ontruck.com    5-12-1-14
Driver- MANY CHOICES: Part-time, Full-
time, Casual, Express Lanes, Dry Van, 
Refrigerated. Weekly or Daily Pay. Local 
Orientation. CDL-A, 3 months recent experi -
ence required. (800)414-9569. www.drivek-
night.com    5-12-1-14
Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL 
NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Susan ext. 227 
Joy ext. 238 SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC      
5-12-1-14
CDL Drivers - Great Pay! Tons of Texas 
Frac work! Great company! Company paid 
benefits! Must have bulk pneumatic trailer 
experience. Call today! (800)491-9029.    
5-12-1-14
Driver- Plenty of Miles. Recession proof 
freight. $1000 Sign-on for experienced CO's 
and incentives for O/O's. Driver Academy 
Refresher Course available. recruit@ffex.
net. (855)356-7121.    5-12-1-14
MOMS WORK FT/PT, no experience nec-
essary, we train. New Swarovski Crystal 
Jewelry by Touchstone Crystal. $500 TO 
$5,000/MONTH (407)295-1522 kontactkel-
lynow@aol.com    5-12-1-14Colonial Life seeks a business to business 
sales executive. 58k+ first year plus ex-
cellent bonuses. Great training and work-
ing conditions. Superb marketing system. 
Contact Meredith.Brewer@coloniallife.com 
or (904)424-5697.    5-12-1-14
Drivers - CDL-A GREAT HOME TIME! 
START UP TO 43¢ PER MILE SIGN-
ON BONUS!! Lease purchase available. 
Experience Req’d. (800)441-4271 X FL-100 
HornadyTransportation.com    5-12-1-14
Veterinary Receptionist
Part-time position, experience
preferred, some weekends. Apply in person
at Jonesville Animal Hospital, 14145
W.Newberry Rd, Newberry, FL 32669.
5-26-11-5-1
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Gator Slide Farm horse boarding, $350/mo., 
day stalled, night turned out.  Barns chores 
done credited against board bill.  Dressage, 
x-country, stadium. Student recommended. 
352-466-3538, gtrslfrm@aol.com
5-26-11-6-14
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
SERVICE DOGS
Newberry. Autism, PTSD, Companion Dogs. 
Volunteers needed. Non-profit. Puppy-raisers. 330-329-8834 chriswriterbuerki@gmail.com5-24-10-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
★★★Advanced Cleaning & Janitoriall★★★
30 years exp. ● Prompt ● Dependable
Detailed cleaning at low rates. Call the
people who really do care. 352-682-
0800     AdvancedCleaningGainesville.com  
5-24-11-5-15Med School Entrance Consulting
Resident Physician offering 
advice for PreMed Students!
Call: 248-762-0712
Email:gatormedconsulting@gmail.com    
6-14-10-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. 
Wentworth. (866)494-9115. Rated A+ by the 
Better Business Bureau.    5-12-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? 
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low 
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! 
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.
com   5-12-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA 
approved program. Financial aid if qualified - 
Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of 
Maintenance (866)314-3769.   5-12-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, 
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com   5-12-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904   
5-12-1-15
Medical Management Careers start here-
Get connected online. Attend college on your own time. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.com   5-12-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16PRIMARY MEDICAL CARE
accept medicare, medicaid, all private insur-
ers, sliding scale fee for uninsuredcall 352 275 8171   5-19-11-5-16
PREGNANT? CONSIDERING ADOPTION? 
A childless energetic, spiritual, committed 
couple seeks to adopt. Financially secure. 
Healthcare professionals. Expenses paid. 
Gil & Dave (888)580-ADOPT (2367). FL 
Bar#0150789    5-12-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
8-15-11-25-18
Mature artist looking for a woman to share 
my spacious 2-story 4BR apt on NW side 
of town. I will pay all the bills in exchange 
for the master BR/BA w/walk-in closet, help 
around the house, some cooking & grocery 
shopping. Apt complex is nice w/2 pools & 
tennis courts. I don't drive but you will need 
a car which I will pay for. Object comfortable 
& fun living. Call Bob 352-226-8449     5-12-
2-19
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-11-25-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  Monday-Thursday, May 23-26 from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions on M & W, Math on T & R. Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.   5-19-3-20
Get Your Ad Noticed Here and in Over 100 
Papers throughout Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! (866)742-1373 www.florida-classifieds.com.    5-12-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.    5-31-11-7-21THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 17
Sports
THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
mwatts@alligator.org
 
Jacksonville native Austin 
Maddox likes playing against his 
hometown rival North Florida.
The Gators first baseman 
went 4 for 4 and drove in five 
runs in UF’s 9-3 win over UNF 
last season, and on Wednesday, 
the sophomore hit a two-run 
home run to lift No. 8 Florida 
(37-12) over the Ospreys (25-22) 
4-1 at McKethan Stadium.
“He’s one of those guys that 
when he comes to the plate that 
there’s always a threat that he’s 
going to do what he did tonight,” 
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said.
Maddox crushed a blast to 
left in the sixth, but the homer 
was just his third of the season 
and first since April 1 against 
Tennessee.
“Every day is a new day and 
you can’t really look at last year 
and think you’re going to do the 
same thing this year,” Maddox 
said. 
“You just have to kind of take every game one game at a 
time.”
Maddox went 2 for 4 with 
one run and two RBIs and said 
Ospreys pitcher Joe Iorio hung a 
curveball for his left field blast. 
Maddox turned on the pitch 
and sent it over the bleachers 
and into the parking lot, just 
creeping around the foul pole.
“It’s pretty rare (that I see 
pitches over the plate),” he said. 
“But I’m not going to make ex -
cuses for myself.”
After hitting 17 home runs 
as a freshman, UF coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said Maddox has got -
ten a bad rap this season for his 
shrinking power numbers
“A lot of times he’s stung the 
ball, or hit it on the nose, or right 
at people,” O’Sullivan said. 
“It was good to see him hit a 
home run there and separate us 
a little bit.”
Junior Alex Panteliodis got 
the midweek start for the Gators, 
tossing three innings and allow -
ing just one hit and no walks on 
CORRECTIONS ONLINE WERNER OFFERED PLEA DEAL
n In Tuesday’s edition, we incorrectly listed 
Florida’s women’s lacrosse team’s NCAA 
seed. Coach Amanda O’Leary’s squad is a 
No. 4 seed and will take on 13th-seeded 
Stanford on Saturday at 1 p.m. n Former Gators basketball player Dan Werner was offered a plea 
deal for his April 12 arrest on a charge of driving under the influ -
ence.  The state attorney’s office offered the 23-year-old a deal in -
cluding one year of supervised probation, a $500 fine, a six-month 
suspension of his driver’s license and other requirements. n Be sure to check out alligatorSports.org all 
weekend for constant updates on the SEC Track 
and Field Championships, men’s tennis NCAAs, 
the SEC Softball Tournament and baseball’s 
mega series against Vandy in Nashville, Tenn. Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Austin Maddox knocked his first homer since April 1 against Tennessee. The first baseman hit 
just his third long ball of the season in the sixth-inning of UF’s 4-1 win o ver North Florida. 
UF BASEBALLMaddox’s sixth-inning blast powers Florida over UNF
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
Jeremy Postin’s opening hammer 
throw today at the Southeastern Confer -
ence Outdoor Championships could be 
the start of something special.
After winning the 2011 SEC Indoor 
Championships in late February, the 
No. 2 Gators men’s track and field team 
has a chance to sweep both conference 
meets, something it hasn’t done since 
1987. 
With one toss in Athens, Ga., Pos -
tin hopes to set the tone for the Gators, 
grabbing an early lead in his lone event 
over the next four days of competition.
“It’s really important, because we’re 
going to lead off the meet against three other good hammer throwers with [No. 
3] LSU and [No. 14] Georgia teams, who 
we’re going to be competing with the 
entire time,” Postin said.
The sophomore currently holds the 
third-longest throw in 
the SEC this season, 
just behind the Tigers’ 
Michael Lauro and 
the Bulldogs’ Justin 
Welch.
At the indoor meet 
earlier this year, Pos -
tin said he was disap -
pointed with how Florida’s poor throws  
put the team in an early hole, forcing 
the runners to make up the difference 
later on.Postin looks to start 
fast at SEC Outdoors THE SENIOR HASN’T HIT A 
LONG BALL SINCE APRIL 23 
AGAINST ALABAMA.  
By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Tim Walton is always the first person 
at Pressly Stadium.
But when Florida’s coach showed 
up at a time he could only describe as 
“early, early” before Saturday’s noon 
contest against Tennessee, he was not 
alone.
In the batting cage was Megan Bush 
— Southeastern Conference career 
home run queen and current owner of a 
five-game hitless slide.
“The only way I know how to get out 
of a slump is to keep hitting and keep 
working and seeing more pitches,” the 
senior first baseman said. “I think that’s 
what it’s all about.”
Since knocking her 20th homer of the season against Alabama on April 
23, Bush is 2 for 25. After equaling the 
UF single-season home run record, the 
senior has gone eight games without 
a long ball, her longest drought of the 
year. 
During the eight-game skid, Bush 
has been pull-heavy, rolling over a 
number of pitches to the left side and 
striking out eight times. Her batting av -
erage has dropped from 
.406 to .354.
With the first base -
man’s college career com -
ing to a close, Walton 
admits Bush is trying too 
hard. With three College World Series 
appearances without a national title, 
Walton said the pressure is weighing on 
Bush as her final postseason begins.
“It’s coming down to the end, and 
it’s the last season,” Bush said. “I think 
that if I didn’t put everything I could Bush works to end slump, 
break home run drought
SEE SOFTBALL, p AGE 20SEE TRACK, p AGE 20SEE BASEBALL, p AGE 20
postin
SoftballBy THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
When the UF men’s tennis 
team hosts an NCAA Regional 
this weekend, it hopes to find its 
early postseason momentum. 
While Florida struggled dur -
ing the regular season, espe -
cially in close matches, the No. 
8 Gators (18-8) are now tasked 
with the difficulty of backing 
up their success after winning a 
conference title.
After a magical run to cap -
ture the Southeastern Confer -
ence Tournament Champi -
onship, UF has lodged itself 
back into the ranks of national 
powerhouses looking to make 
a deep run in the NCAA Tour -
nament.
“We definitely felt momen -
tum during the SEC Tourna -
ment,” coach Andy Jackson 
said. “We were scared of Ar -
kansas, gained a little momen -
tum after that win. There were 
more people against Missis -
sippi State, a top-20 team, and 
even more people against Ten -
nessee, a national champion -
ship contender. 
And even on Easter Sunday, 
we had probably our biggest 
crowd of the year against Ken -
tucky.”
Jackson said his team thrives 
while playing at home, and the 
Gators always have the goal of 
hosting an NCAA Regional.
But maintaining momen -
tum from a tournament that 
concluded on April 24 won’t be 
easy.
“The guys played well but 
a lot of it was feeding off the 
people in the stands, something 
that we’re grateful for,” Jack -
son said. “The thing with the 
momentum is that now we’ve 
had three weeks off. We’ve got 
more confidence, but we’re like 
all the other teams in the round 
of 64 when everybody’s had 
three weeks off. We have to 
earn our momentum again in the regional.”
To keep their focus in the 
first round against South Caro -
lina State (13-4) on Friday at 1 
p.m., Florida will turn to senior 
Alexandre Lacroix for guid -
ance. 
Lacroix has led the team all 
year, and his experience in the 
postseason is something Jack -
son said is a huge boost for the 
Gators.
“I think you want an aware -
ness [among the players] that 
this is what you’ve practiced for. 
This is what Alex has worked four years for... He’s aware of 
it more than the other guys and 
he’s teaching those guys that 
this is the time to be present.”
According to Jackson, UF is 
good enough to make a deep 
run into the NCAAs, but the 
first step is beating South Caro -
lina State on Friday.
“We’ve got a better team, but 
the better team doesn’t always 
win,” Jackson said. “They’re 
going to play loose and they’ve 
got some confidence from the 
regular season, so we’re go -
ing to have to be prepared and 
show that we can handle some 
success.”THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011 n ALLIGATOR , 19
Steven H. Keys / Alligator
 Senior Alexandre Lacroix is the Gators’ vocal leader, and coach 
Andy Jackson said his postseason experience is invaluable. 
Florida seeks to maintain 
momentum as NCAAs begin
THE FORMER ARKAN -
SAS COACH SAID FLORIDA 
WAS THE ONLY PLACE HE 
WOULD TAKE A JOB AS AN 
ASSISTANT.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
mwatts@alligator.org
 
John Pelphrey knows Florida.
One of three new Gators bas -
ketball assistant coaches, Pelphrey 
is actually a former UF assistant 
making a return to Gainesville af -
ter a nine-year absence.
A heralded recruiter, Pelphrey 
brought Mike Miller to UF and 
was an assistant during the Gators’ 
Final Four run of 2000 — a time he 
called “magical.” Pelphrey’s two 
children were born in Gainesville, 
and he helped coach Billy Dono -
van lay the foundation for the pro -
gram’s current run of success.
During his introductory press 
conference Tuesday , Pelphrey 
repeatedly emphasized that 
Gainesville is a special place and 
returning to Florida was a unique 
situation.
“(UF) is the only place I’d be 
doing this,” Pelphrey said, spe -
cifically referencing coaching as an 
assistant.
“I think because it’s (Donovan), 
because all my kids were born 
here, this is a safe place. I don’t see 
myself having taken this opportu -
nity anywhere else.”
Pelphrey was a head coach at 
South Alabama and Arkansas af -
ter leaving Florida in 2002.
But Pelphrey was fired as coach 
of the Razorbacks in March. And 
shortly after, Larry Shyatt left Flor -
ida for Wyoming, Richard Pitino 
bolted to Louisville and Rob Lani -
er returned to Texas, opening the 
door for Pelphrey and Donovan to 
reunite. 
“Everything changed and really 
the first person I hired was John,” 
Donovan said. “I felt like I really 
needed somebody that knew me, 
that knew Florida, that knew the 
way to do things.”
The 42-year-old is one of three new coaches on UF’s staff, joining 
Norm Roberts, former St. John’s 
head coach, and Matt McCall, for -
mer FAU assistant coach. 
Familiarity is one of the big rea -
sons Pelphrey is back on UF’s staff. 
He played at Kentucky from 1989-
92 when Donovan was an assistant 
and was a part of Donovan’s staff 
at Marshall from 1994-96 before 
following him to Florida.
Pelphrey said he didn’t pursue 
head-coaching jobs after being let 
go because the time between his 
firing and Donovan’s offer was so 
soon.
Returning to an assistant’s role 
can be a challenge, but Pelphrey 
said he’s focused solely on playing 
his role on the staff and being the 
best he can be for Donovan and 
the players.
“Some of that other stuff, I’m 
not going to look at that or focus on 
those things because that’s going 
to take me away from doing what 
I need to do,” Pelphrey said. “This 
opportunity is certainly a wonder -
ful opportunity. It’s a blessing and 
it needs to be treated that way.”
While neither Donovan nor 
Pelphrey envisioned a future re -
union, Pelphrey said he knows 
it’s the right decision. And seeing 
all the familiar faces in his return 
to Gainesville has made the transi -
tion easier, Pelphrey said.
“If you know more than five 
people in a place, you probably 
have a pretty good feel for it,” he 
said. “I can name off a lot more 
than five. Nobody seems to leave 
Florida, that’s how special it is.”
ETC: According to Donovan, 
forwards Erik Murphy and Cody 
Larson remain suspended indefi -
nitely despite a report that charges 
against them have been reduced. 
Donovan said he would continue 
to allow the legal process to play 
itself out before making any deci -
sions about their future. “Once it 
gets resolved and once I found out 
what the resolution is, then I think 
I can react,” Donovan said. “Un -
til that happens, right now those 
guys are going to be suspended, 
but it’s not like there’s a whole lot 
going on right now to suspend 
them from.” Pelphrey reunites 
with Donovan, UF UF plays Friday at 1 p.m.
UF FOOTBALL
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Mike Blakely will not play a 
down of football for the Florida 
Gators.
The early enrollee freshman run -
ning back announced Tuesday he 
will transfer from UF after sitting 
out all of spring practice recovering 
from arthroscopic surgery on his left 
shoulder.
Blakely committed under Urban 
Meyer but remained loyal to UF 
when Will Muschamp took over — until he saw the new regime‘s on-
field product.
“I just didn’t like the pro-style 
offense once I saw what it was all 
about,” Blakely said.
The former Manatee High stand -
out said he is used to being “the 
back” on the field, and said he feels 
he can start immediately some -
where else instead of waiting in line 
at Florida.
Had he stayed, Blakely would’ve 
been competing for playing time in 
a crowded backfield featuring Chris 
Rainey , Jeff Demps, Mike Gillislee and Mack Brown. Blakely said it’s 
clear that Charlie Weis’ pro-style at -
tack is only going to utilize one or 
two backs, and he 
would prefer to 
play for a spread 
offense.
“Mike has 
come to the con -
clusion that the 
University of 
Florida is not 
where he wants 
to play football,” Muschamp said in 
an official statement. “We wish him the best of luck.”
Blakely informed the Gators head 
coach of his decision in a very short 
phone conversation.
“(Muschamp) asked, ‘You’re 
going to transfer?’” Blakely said. “I 
said ‘Yeah,’ and that was it.”
Blakely said transferring is some -
thing he thought about for a long 
time. It was clear to him for most of 
the spring that UF wasn’t where he 
wanted to be.
During his high school career, the 
5-foot-9, 198-pound Blakely was an 
Army All-American and was rated the No. 6 running back in the nation 
by Rivals.com. 
He is not yet sure where he will 
transfer, but it won’t be the South -
eastern Conference — at least not 
immediately . 
“[UF] told me I can’t transfer 
anywhere in the SEC, so I’m lean -
ing toward going [to junior college] 
and then coming back to the SEC,” 
Blakely said. 
The freshman is the third player 
to transfer from Florida in less than a 
month, joining wide receivers Java -
res McRoy and Chris Dunkley . Blakely to transfer, cites displeasure with offense
Blakely
— all of my time into it — then I’d be 
really disappointed when I left here.”
She has also been affected by an 
NCAA decision that initially hurt 
nearly half of the Gators lineup.
On April 29, the NCAA banned the Easton Synergy Speed that Florida, 
Georgia and others used, resulting in 
players frantically searching for a new 
bat that fits their swings.
Bush has accounted for 20 outs 
since the ban. Of those outs, 10 have 
come to the left side of the field and 
four others are strikeouts. The righty has only hit the ball to the right side of 
the field twice in seven games. 
“I probably tried close to 30 bats 
[Monday],” Bush said. “I know what 
I’m looking for now. I know what 
length. I know what weight.”
The senior from Anaheim Hills, Ca -
lif., refuses to blame the bats for her 
slump and said she is not willing to 
“change too much” to break out of it.
Bush is hoping for a fresh start dur -
ing postseason play, and the senior 
will get her first chance today when 
Florida (47-8, 21-7 SEC) open sthe 
SEC Tournament against Auburn (38-
16, 15-13 SEC) at 2:30 p.m in Oxford, 
Miss.
GatorS NaB SEC a CColadES:  The 
SEC released its awards Wednesday, 
and the list was loaded with Gators. 
Kelsey Bruder was honored as Play -
er of the Year. The senior left fielder 
was also one of three First Team All-
SEC selections — along with Brittany 
Schutte and Bush. 
Hannah Rogers, Michelle Moultrie 
and Aja Paculba were second-team 
selections. Rogers also made the All-
Freshman team along with short -
stop Cheyenne Coyle. Walton shared 
Coach of the Year honors with LSU 
head coach Yvette Girouard.20, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Florida’s senior first baseman said she has experimented with “close to 30 
bats” since the NCAA banned the Easton Synergy Speed on April 29.
37 pitches. 
Once again, the left-hander’s day was cut 
short on a pitch count, but Panteliodis had his 
stuff working early and often Wednesday.
After the game, Panteliodis said his hip 
feels great after offseason surgery. 
The southpaw said he is returning to his 
2010 form when he lead the team in innings 
pitched, wins and strikeouts.
Six Gators combined to finish the game 
as O’Sullivan said he wanted to make sure 
his staff got plenty of work heading into this 
weekend’s pivotal series against No. 2 Van -
derbilt.
The plethora of pitchers was a story of the 
game as UNF first-year manager Smoke Laval 
trotted out seven hurlers of his own.
Lefty Tommy Organ got the starting nod 
and went 2.0 innings, giving up three hits, an 
earned run and striking out two in 29 pitches 
before being pulled for Brandan Keen.
But no amount of UNF pitchers could stop 
the hot-hitting UF bats. 
Florida catcher Mike Zunino extended his 
burning hit-streak to 13 games with a single 
to center in the third. 
Zunino is hitting .471 (25-53) with 19 RBIs 
and 11 extra-base hits during the span.  
Right fielder Preston Tucker also extended 
his hitting streak to 13 games after a 1 for 3 
showing with two RBIs and a run scored.
Tucker started the scoring for Florida in 
the first with a sacrifice fly to center, scoring 
leadoff hitter Bryson Smith.
 The Gators plated a run again in the 
third after Zunino stole second, advanced to 
third on a wild pitch and crossed home on a 
groundout to second from Tucker.
UNF got on the board in the sixth after 
Andrew Karmeris led off the inning with a 
standup double to left off of Tommy Toledo. 
He scored on a base hit from Kyle Dahl for 
the Ospreys’ only run.Florida uses 
seven pitchers, 
Panteliodis gets W
BASEBALL , from page 18Holloway said throwers are primed for hot start
Bruder named SEC Player of the Year on Wednesday“I think all of our runners are going to do the best they 
can, but if we start them off with a deficit they’re going to 
be thinking a little differently,” he said. 
“So if we can help them out and win throws, they’re go -
ing to go out there with a lot more confidence and perform 
better.”
Unlike Postin, sprinter Terrell Wilks is slated for a 
workmanlike load over the last three days with six sprints 
and relays to run.
If he falters in an early event, the one-time SEC Cham -
pion will likely get a chance to redeem himself later in the 
meet, but Wilks is still hoping the throwers can grab the 
early momentum. 
“One person can spark another, and then that sparks 
the whole team,” Wilks said. 
“A quick start on Friday is very, very important…[the throwers] are going to set the tone for the weekend. If we 
have a negative tone, we have to work around it, but with 
a positive tone, it makes it a lot easier to finish the week -
end.”
UF coach Mike Holloway thinks his throwers are primed 
for a big weekend as Postin (hammer throw), freshman 
David Triassi (hammer) and sophomore Stipe Zunic (jav -
elin) have all won in the last three weeks.
“That’s always in our plans to be at our 
best at this time of the year,” Holloway said. 
“Coach [Steve] Lemke and the rest of my 
staff, we’re all on the same page as far as 
that’s concerned. Steve does a wonderful job 
of getting them ready when it counts.”
UF’s unranked women’s team will also be in Athens 
going for its third title in three years after winning the 
2010 SEC Indoor Championships and 2009 SEC Outdoor 
Championships.TRACK , from page 18
SOFTBALL , from page 18track