We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 37 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida senior 
forward Chandler 
Parsons (right) re-
turned from injury 
and led UF to a 71-
62 win over Geor-
gia that clinched at 
least a share of the 
SEC East title for 
the Gators.
See Story, Page 17.By KATY DORAN
Alligator Contributing Writer 
O’Connell Center doors will open Satur -
day at 6 p.m. for a B.o.B concert featuring 
musical artists J. Cole and Wale.
Student Government Productions is co-
sponsoring the concert with the Black Stu-dent Union as part of Black History Month, 
according to Kyle Calhoun, SGP’s chairman. 
Calhoun expects about 6,200 people to at-
tend.
Tickets are $15 for students and $30 for 
non-students. They can be purchased at the 
University Box Office until the day of the 
concert.B.o.B will be paid 
$55,000 for the perfor -
mance.
Calhoun said SGP 
wants to bring in fresh tal-ent with more well-known 
artists like B.o.B so stu-dents can help the new artists grow.
Drake performed a few years ago when 
he was just making it big as an artist. He said they paid him $8,000 for his performance.  Drake now charges a minimum of $150,000 per show, according to Calhoun.
“It’ll be cool seeing these artists now,” he 
said about J. Cole and Wale.
Georgia Girl Scout troop fears arrest for peddling cookies
VILLA RICA, Ga. — A Girl Scout leader 
says young members of her troop thought 
they were headed to jail when a Georgia police officer told them to quit selling cook-ies.
The girls had set up a stand at a strip 
mall in Villa Rica about 30 miles west of At-lanta on Wednesday when the officer asked them if they had a peddler’s permit. They didn’t.
Troop Leader Kathy Crook told WXIA-TV in Atlanta that she was stunned. She says the scouts were told to pack it up.
And she says the younger members 
thought they would be taken to jail.
The city’s police chief and mayor spoke 
with the officer. They say he did nothing wrong and that it was a misunderstanding.
The troop now has a permit to sell. And 
to smooth things over, the city is offering the scouts a pizza party.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Partly 
cloudy
81/58FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 17
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Stop! Hammertime!
Electrical engineering graduate student Jordan Brookman wears a captain’s hat as he rides a 
mechanical shark during the “Engineering Extravaganza” event on the Reitz Union North Lawn Thursday afternoon. “I’m riding a shark. I have to have my captain’s hat on,” Brookman said. The event is sponsored by UF’s Benton Engineering Council as part of Engineering Week.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
Three students have come for -
ward claiming to have voted mul-
tiple times during this week’s Stu-dent Government election.Jonathan Ossip and Kier La-
mont, students in the College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences, and Ian 
Seabrook O’Connor, an engineer -
ing student, said they cast eight 
ballots between them Tuesday. 
Ossip said he and Lamont voted at each of the three polling 
locations avail-
able for CLAS 
students, while O’Connor vot-
ed at the two polls open to engi-neering students.The Alligator is in the process 
of filing a public records request for the voter rolls for this election cycle.
Ossip said they did not cast le-
gitimate votes for candidates on the ballots, but instead wrote in the name of a 20th-century English women’s rights activist and signed their names so the ballots could not be traced back to them.
Ossip said he had heard of stu-
dents casting two and three ballots in previous elections and wanted to test the security and expose the flaws of the current voting system in which students fill out paper ballots.
“This was going to go unde-Students claim to have voted multiple times
Grammy-nominee B.o.B to perform Saturday at UFn ADU-BREMPONG WAS SHOT BY UPD LAST YEAR.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
Lawyers for Kofi Adu-Brem-
pong, the graduate student who 
was shot last March after a stand-off with University Police, have requested that the UF Coalition 
for Justice Against Police Brutal-
ity remove remove his name and image from the group’s fliers and Facebook page. 
Miami attorney David Mc-
Donald made the request in a a cease-and-desist letter sent to the coalition’s organizers Tuesday . 
Using images of Adu-Brem-
pong and the slogan “Justice for Kofi” made it appear that his cli-ent supported their coalition, Mc-Donald said. 
He said Adu-Brempong nei-
ther supports nor opposes the or -
ganization, but wanted to ensure that he is not associated with it. 
“It appeared as if they were rallying people to help him when he neither wants nor needs it,” McDonald said. 
The organization has since 
changed its Facebook name from “Justice for Kofi” to “Coalition for Justice Against Police Brutal-ity (UF),” coalition organizer Jose Soto said. 
Soto said the coalition under -
stood Adu-Brempong’s concerns and quickly responded to Mc-Donald’s request. 
“They were very cooperative 
and did not want to cause any problems for Kofi,” McDonald said. “Students being civically involved is a great thing, but he’s trying to return his life to being as normal as it can be.”
The coalition’s cooperation 
has resolved the issue, he said. Group told not to 
use victim’s image
B.o.B
StudentGovernment
SEE VOTING, p AGE 8They wanted to point out flaws in system
 “But he’s trying to        
return his life to being  
as normal as it can be.”
David McDonald
Miami AttorneyNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 37 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Spencer Christen,  
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Study Abroad in Europe Info 
Session
Today, 2 p.m.
Turlington Hall, Room 3312Last chance to learn all about summer programs in Krakow, 
Poland; Brussels, Belgium; 
and Salzburg, Austria. The Center for European Studies will tell all about its six-week programs for this 
summer. 
Call 392-8902 for more infor -
mation.
Twenty-seventh Annual 
Maguire Appellate Advocacy CompetitionToday, 10 a.m.Martin H. Levin Advocacy 
Center, UF Law campus
The UF Levin College of Law will welcome all seven cur -
rent Florida Supreme Court 
justices for the competition.
The Maguire competition provides the Florida Moot Court Team with valuable practice and the Florida 
Supreme Court justices will 
offer helpful critiques re-garding their oral arguments before the members go on 
to compete in the upcoming 
American Bar Association National Appellate Advocacy Competition. For more info contact C. 
Andrew Roy at aroy.law@
gmail.com. 
Theatre Strike Force improv 
marathonToday, noon to midnightOrange & BrewStudents are encouraged to donate, and all proceeds will 
be given to to Relay for Life. 
Fifth Annual North Florida 
Crossword Puzzle Tournament
Saturday, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.Terrace Room, Norman HallOpen to puzzlers of all inter -
est levels. Discount for stu-
dent registration. 
The winner will receive a trip to Nationals in Brooklyn, N.Y. All proceeds benefit 
Caleb’s Pitch. 
To register or for more in-formation, visit calebspitch.org or call 352-215-5440  
Second Annual Kanapaha 5K-9 
& One Mile Pup Run/Walk Saturday, 9 a.m.The Pledge 5 Foundation 
is hosting a 5K and one-
mile race benefitting Gainesville Pet Rescue.  
Advanced registration is $20, and on-site registration is 
$35. 
Registration includes a T-shirt, doggy gift bag and refreshments. 
Awards will be provided for 
place finishers, and all routes are unpaved and paw friend-ly. will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Big cleaning bill for missing 
snake on Mass. train 
BOSTON — A woman 
whose 3-foot-long snake slith-
ered away from her in a Bos-
ton subway car and hid there 
for nearly a month has gotten a hefty cleaning bill.
Transit officials want All-
ston, Mass., resident Melissa Moorhouse to pay $650 to cover the costs of disinfecting and sanitizing the Red Line train to protect passengers from germs 
such as salmonella that may 
have been left by a boa constric-tor named Penelope.
Moorhouse had traveled 
with the snake around her neck and lost it between stations Jan. 6. 
The snake was spotted on 
the train earlier this month by a 
commuter.
The Boston Globe reported 
Tuesday the Massachusetts Bay 
Transportation Authority says 
some subway riders wrote in 
with health concerns.
Moorhouse says she’ll pay 
more attention the next time she takes the snake out in public.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
DC councilman wants to re-
name Pennsylvania Avenue 
WASHINGTON — A D.C. 
Council member wants to high-
light the city’s lack of statehood 
and is asking residents to pick 
another name for Pennsylvania Avenue.
Among the options on the 
online survey are Let D.C. Vote Way, 51st State Way and Free D.C. Avenue.
Council member Michael 
Brown is considering a cer -
emonial renaming and the sign could be placed under existing markers for Pennsylvania Ave-nue, which is home to the White 
House.
The survey also asks resi-
dents whether other Washing-
ton streets should be renamed.
The 600,000 residents of 
Washington pay federal taxes 
but do not have a vote in Con-
gress.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSGainesville Rugby Club Fifth 
Annual Poker RunSaturday, 7 p.m.
Gator City
The Gainesville Hogs are hosting their fifth-annual poker run. 
The best hand at the end 
of the night wins $100. For more details go to gaines-villerugbyclub.com. 
Health Fair
Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.Idylwild Elementary School
The Minority Association 
of Pre-Health Students will be hosting its 13th annual Health Fair. Free health services, including blood 
glucose testing, HIV testing 
and vision screening will be provided to the Gainesville community. 
There will also be free 
breakfast and lunch, give-aways and kid’s activi-ties. Please contact Tiffany Albury with any questions 
or concerns at ufmapspr@
gmail.com 
Brown Bag Lunch Series
Tuesday, 11 a.m.Peabody Hall Room 411UF professor Tace Hedrick explores gender implica-tions in the “Twilight” 
book series in this edition 
of the Brown Bag Lunch Series. Refreshments will be provided.
Through Their Eyes: The 
Rhythms of West AfricaWednesday, 11:45 a.m. UF International Center
This presentation will fea-
ture Mohamed Dacosta, a professor with the Department of Theatre and 
Dance and the Center of 
African Studies. Come out and learn more about the music of West Africa from one of the few 
practice-based cultural au-
thorities on the traditional performing arts of Africa currently living in the U.S.  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the 
subject line to ebehrman@
alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. 
Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/55PARTLY
CLOUDY
82/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
82/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
70/48TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
In Jamie Morris’ classroom, history is 
all around you. The walls are covered in 
maps, pictures of presidents and old news-papers. 
On one wall, Richard Nixon resigns 
from the presidency. On another, Lind-bergh “dives into Paris.”
He stands in front of the 27 youth-sized 
wood-topped desks and speaks in his deep Mississippi drawl about the way the world used to be, trying to relate his pas-sion to a handful of eighth graders.
But don’t think for a second it’s because 
he has to.
Morris, 60, has been teaching history at 
Howard Bishop Middle School for more than a decade. He does it out of love for the 
subject and his students. For the students, 
the feeling is mutual. 
But it wasn’t always class time with the 
kids. 
Twenty years ago, Morris made enough 
money running a chain of lumber yards that he retired at 40, but a life of relaxation proved excruciatingly dull.
“I need a little more structure in my 
life,” he said. “The two biggest decisions you make everyday are am I gonna play 18 or 36 holes of golf and what am I gonna eat for breakfast.”
Morris went back to school to get his 
Ph.D. in social studies education, then be-gan teaching others how to teach history at colleges such as the University of Central Florida and UF.
But it didn’t take  long to realize how 
much more  fun it would be to teach the subject itself rather than teaching to teach.
“A lot of people are inspired by the 
great teachers they had,” he said. “I used to think to myself, ‘I could do a better job at that.’”
And Morris’ personal history is color -
ful on its own. 
Born in the South in 1950, Morris had a 
front-row seat to the civil rights movement and can rattle off a chain of stories like no-
body’s business. 
An avid baseball player and fan, Morris 
has spent many years of his life coaching 
the sport, and three of his former players went on to compete in the major leagues. One even played in the World Series.But all his past successes aside, he said 
teaching has been the most rewarding.
Four years ago, Morris was diagnosed 
with prostate cancer, and he had to take time off to recover from surgery . On his 
last day at school, near the end of class, 
the principal said over the public address system that some people had come to see him. 
He paused to fight off tears as he told how the room filled up with friends and former students who came to tell the man that, whatever happened in surgery , they’d never forget the man standing in front of those little desks.
“You never know what kind of im-
pression you make or impact you have on people,” he said. “(It was) a day I’ll never forget in a bizarre way, a very rewarding day.”4, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator
Howard Bishop Middle School eighth grade history teacher Jamie Morris re-
laxes in his classroom after school Thursday afternoon. He has been teaching history at Howard Bishop for more than a decade.
History teacher has stories of his own
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Jessica Ellison was fired from her job, 
but she wasn’t done using the company’s 
money to pay her bills.
Starting in December, Ellison, 24, con-
tinually broke into her former manager’s office at the District on 62nd apartment 
complex, 1000 SW 62nd Blvd., according 
to a Gainesville Police report.
Over the course of 
two months, Ellison 
stole 18 credit and gift 
cards from the man-ager’s closet.   The to-
tal value of the cards amounted to $2,550.
Ellison used the 
cards to go on a shop-
ping spree, spending all the money at various retail stores around Gainesville. 
She was caught with the stolen cards on 
a surveillance camera at J.C. Penney. 
Bank statements and a witness’s testi-
mony confirmed her purchases, and El-lison was arrested at 1:15 p.m. Wednes-
day.
She is charged with burglary, grand 
theft, scheming to defraud, fraudulent 
use of credit cards and possession of sto-
len credit cards.
Ellison told police she was sorry for 
what she’d done and was willing to pay 
for the purchases she had made.Ex-employee 
busted for using stolen gift cards at J.C. Penney
 LAST YEAR’S CLOTHING 
DRIVE COLLECTED NEARLY 2,000 ITEMS.
By SARA KANER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Interfraternity Coun-
cil and Panhellenic Council have 
joined forces this week to sponsor their annual used clothing drive in an effort to give back to the Gainesville community. 
The drive began Monday and 
ends today. The 26 fraternities and 16 sororities were given a box at the start of the week and encouraged to donate as many items of gently used clothing as possible. 
As a way to ignite some friendly 
competition, the fraternity and so-rority that donate the most items will receive a gift card to a local Gainesville restaurant for a chapter dinner, said IFC Director of Service Trey Clarke.
“This event shows that Greeks 
really do a lot of positive things for 
the community,” said Clarke, a third-year ac-counting major. “This is a great way for us to give 
back, and we’re looking to make a 
difference in Gainesville and the 
community at large.”
The clothing drive will ben-
efit the Children’s Home Society of Florida in Gainesville, which aims to provide neglected, abandoned and abused children with a number of social services, including hous-ing, clothing and food. IFC Presi-dent Rajiv Asnani said all of the clothing collected will be tallied on Saturday and taken to the organiza-tion sometime early next week.  
This is the Greek community’s 
third year hosting this event.
Asnani said that last year’s drive brought in nearly 2,000 clothing items, and the councils are hoping to bring in at least the same amount this year.
Kelsey Roderick, a second-year 
advertising major and member of Sigma Kappa sorority, donated T-shirts, sweaters and a sweatshirt to the drive.
“I have a ton of clothes that I’ve 
been meaning to get rid of,” Roder -
ick said. “And this is giving them toward a great cause.”
Frats, sororities team up to donate clothes to charity
By GRETCHEN GORDIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Crossword puzzle fans have the chance 
to show off their skills and compete against others all for a good cause at the Fifth Annual North Florida Crossword Puzzle Tournament 
this Saturday.The tournament  will be held at the Terrace 
Room in Norman Hall on the corner of South-
west 13th Street and Southwest Fifth Avenue from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
This year, all the proceeds made from the 
tournament will go to benefit Caleb’s Pitch, 
a nonprofit organization in Gainesville that 
grants experiences with UF athletic teams for hospitalized children.
There will be separate competitions for indi-
viduals and teams of three. The overall winner of the individual division wins a $500 travel award to the national tournament, which will be held in Brooklyn, N.Y .,  on March 18 to 20. 
The cost to enter the tournament is $40 per 
person, $30 for students and seniors, $100 per team of three and $75 for a student or senior 
team of three. Paul Sindelar, tournament mas-
ter of ceremonies and UF education professor, said what motivates most people to participate is the chance to compete and to socialize. 
“All puzzle wonks do at least a puzzle a 
day, usually alone,” Sindelar said. “The tour -
nament gives them an opportunity to talk with other crossword puzzle lovers while con-tributing to a very good cause.”Regional crossword puzzle tournament held this weekendEllison
PERSON OF THE WEEK
GreekLife
The overall winner will go to the national competition in Brooklyn, N.Y.By ELLIOT EVANS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Fierce competition among Flor -
ida universities usually involves 
football or basketball. 
This time, it’s singing.The International Championship 
of Collegiate A Cappella will hold one of its quarterfinal rounds at 8 p.m. today at the P .K. Yonge Per -
forming Arts Center, 1080 SW 11th St. 
The event features three groups 
from UF, three from the University of Central Florida and two from Florida State University . Tickets will 
cost $10 for students and $15 for 
adults. 
Stephanie Bonfonte, president 
of The Sedoctaves, said the compe-tition is always friendly among the groups, but the motivation to suc-ceed is strong after not placing last year.
“We’re hoping to come back strong and take home the title this 
year,” she said.
The groups will be chosen at 
random and be given 12 minutes 
to perform, which usually means about three-song set lists, accord-ing to Jabari Taylor, the performance and music director of The Staff, the  all-male male counterpart to The Se-doctaves.
Taylor said part of the difficulty 
with the competition is arranging the music and then adding cho-reography to it
Janine Romero, a 20-year-old 
UCF student and a member of Key Harmony , said that while she and her group are looking  forward to 
the competition, they are mostly 
looking forward to the experience.
“It doesn’t really matter who 
wins,” Romero said. “I know it’s going to be great just to see what all the groups can pull off in the heat of competition.”FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
n THE DISCOVERY’S LAST 
LAUNCH WAS THURSDAY.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
The space shuttle Discovery 
took its final voyage Thursday 
to the International Space Sta-tion. 
It was NASA’s third-to-last 
shuttle launch, which for some students represents a sadden-ing finality for a staple of scien-tific and American pride.
Some students think the 
U.S. will lose something special when NASA’s shuttle program ends.
“The space exploration is the 
stuff that everyone loves,” said Peter Nguyen, a UF physics and astronomy double major. “It’s a source of national pride.”
Evan Kassof, a UF physics 
and music composition double major, said a big loss will be the diminishing role of an iconic hero: the astronaut.
“The sad thing is we won’t have astronauts, and that will make American kids even less interested in science,” he said.
NASA’s budget for 2011 is 
$19 billion, but the  Obama ad-ministration canceled NASA’s funding for the Constellation program  — a plan that would 
have returned Americans to 
the moon — and will retire its fleet of shuttles to be museum pieces.
Haywood Smith, under -
graduate coordinator for as-tronomy at UF, said while most of his students want to be pro-fessors or do research, some are interested in working for 
NASA. A few want to be astro-
nauts.“Astronomy… It’s been a 
little tight, just like physics,” Smith said. “It’s not good to 
make it any tighter.”
Kassof said there isn’t a 
good reason to spend billions 
of dollars to send people into space when, in some cases, ro-bots can gather more data with less financial expense.
“The only reason people like 
space anymore is the whole ro-
mantic idea of exploring the 
unexplored,” he said. 
The U.S. will still have mis-
sions to the International Space Station until 2020, but Nguyen said American astronauts will have to ask for a lift from Rus-sia to get to the space station.
He said that at the start of 
the space age, there were grand ideas of men colonizing Mars and exploring planets in other solar systems.
That, he said, now seems 
unlikely.
“So, what happened to all 
those ideas? It’s kind of de-pressing if you think about it,” 
Nguyen said. Students see end of era
“The only reason      
people like space 
anymore is the whole 
romantic idea of explor -
ing the unexplored.”
Evan Kassof
Physics and astronomy majorOnCampu sUF singers competeThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Are you attending the B.o.B. concert?Thursday’s question: Have you ever made a prank call?  
73% YES27% NO
97 TOTAL VOTES
Do you really know what’s going on?
We have been bombarded lately with media reports 
about a wide range of spectacular events. Middle East unrest, budget crises, government shutdown 
warnings, pirate slayings and government officials on the run in the Midwest have captured the attention of all who keep even cursory tabs on the news.
But do you really know what’s going on?Politicians have long understood that in the face of many 
distractions, there is an opportunity to quietly shove an agen-da under the table that may have more of a direct effect on our lives than any of the “big news” stories.
So with all of us distracted by the headlines, there cur -
rently is a quiet battle raging in Washington by Congress, the courts and the Federal Communications Commission — one that could directly affect the life of every American.
This is the battle over the net neutrality rules established 
by the FCC in December. This act would give the unelected 
bureaucrats in the FCC the power to regulate the Internet.
Most would probably consider the official reasoning for 
this act to be fairly benign. There is a concern that the major 
corporations that own the wires that form the infrastructure of the Internet could suppress competition.
However, federal courts have maintained the rights of 
communications companies and denied the FCC the power to enforce regulation.
The enforcement of the net neutrality rules would at best 
be an affront to free enterprise in defiance of federal courts. At its inevitable worst, though, it would be much more.
Once the government has grabbed control of the Internet 
from the owners of its infrastructure, it would have absolute power of regulation over all content. The Internet represents the last great frontier of free expression, and many people across the entire political spectrum daily enjoy the unrestrict-ed ability to share ideas and information. The government’s track record shows that, if given the ability , it would take advantage of this situation for political gain.
There would be nothing to keep 
government officials from policing political content, licensing usage, re-stricting access or levying fines for “misuse.” For those who are inclined to view this as an unfounded slippery 
slope analysis, consider the aviation industry. When the fed-eral government began to regulate air travel, do you think 
anyone saw pat-downs coming?
Furthermore, what the government controls, it also can 
tax. With the deficit looming, the federal government is on 
the lookout for innovative ways to take your money, and us-age fees tacked on to your monthly Internet bill would be-
come the norm.
The Internet has changed the way we live. If the FCC gets 
its way , it will never be the same. Do you really want your 
Facebook status to be subject to campaign law? Do you want your blog post to be screened by a bureaucrat who deter -
mines if it’s fit for the public?
Even as Congress attempts to put a final nail in the cof-
fin of the Fairness Doctrine, the FCC is making this attempt to grab a medium even more influential than radio or TV . Republicans are intent on stopping this act from becoming effective, but Democrats are united in favor of this measure that could be called many things — pro-fairness, pro-stabili-ty, etc. — but definitely not pro-freedom. 
If we allow ourselves to be distracted, the government 
will continue to strip away our liberties until we find our -
selves in a country that we do not recognize.
Bob Minchin is a fourth-year electrical engineering major. His 
column appears on Fridays.It’s been a heck of a week around here. Every Student 
Government election is stressful for us, but we can never 
quite get used to having our entire newsroom writing sto-
ries, taking photos or shooting video at 1 a.m. on a Thurs-
day morning. 
So forgive us if we’re a little groggy as you enjoy the 
this-is-the-last-thing-we’re-writing-before-we-slip-into-our-three-day-self-induced-comas edition of...
Darts & Laurels
It’s exhausting to be so important. See, we all know that without our endorsement in Mon-
day’s paper, the Unite Party would have stood no chance 
in the elections on Tuesday and Wednesday. Who could 
have seen those results coming? 
For wielding such awesome power over campus affairs, 
we’re crafting a puppeteers-have-nothing-on-the-scum-
bags-here LAUREL for the Editorial Board. As goes the 
Alligator, so goes UF.
Our strength is not without its checks, however. We’ve 
got to hand a we’re-not-sure-where-you-got-your-infor -
mation-but-you-deserve-to-be-met-with-a-round-of-ap-plause LAUREL to our website commentators who un-
covered the SG conspiracy we masterminded.  
You’re dead on. 
Not only has the office been overrun with a total of one 
Greek-affiliated employee, but a “racist tool” sports editor certainly also influenced the Board’s endorsement deci-sion enough to be ridiculed. 
But you didn’t stop at those shocking discoveries. No, 
you disclosed our hush-hush agreement with the Unite 
Party in which they bribed us with — wait for it — three 
whole copies of their platform complete with those oh-so-valuable staples.
 With all the money the party is throwing our way, 
Monday’s paper will be blank: We’re all quitting and mov-ing to the Bahamas.
All joking aside, at least we’re willing to listen to those 
who disagree with us. That’s more than we can say for the governor of Wisconsin. 
He has refused to talk with his state’s Democrat leaders 
to reach a compromise on the labor union bill Republicans are advocating. In response, we’re chucking a covering-your-ears-and-screaming-”I-can’t-hear-you”-isn’t-a-via -
ble-political-strategy DART at Gov. Scott Walker. 
We don’t like how the Democrats fled the scene, either, 
but we can’t blame them after hearing about Walker’s in-tention to trick them. Suggesting the state senate should take a vote during a supposed recess is about as slimy as 
it gets.
Unless, of course, you’re talking about dictators. 
While he has entertained us with his insane speeches, 
Libya’s head honcho has been sending chills down our 
spines over the past few days. He vowed to die in the 
country he has ruled for decades, making us wonder how the Libyan people are coping with this power-hungry ma-niac. 
We’re launching a thanks-for-reminding-us-that-over-
the-top-insane-dictators-with-a-penchant-for-genocide-aren’t-confined-to-our-history-books DART at Col. 
Moammar Gaddafi. On the bright side, eastern Libya is 
getting a taste of freedom as we speak, convincing us that 
the rest of the country may follow suit.
That’s all for now. It’s about time to start the countdown until Spring 
Break.
Bob Minchin
letters@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
While Facebook has taken over Hollywood, it 
is another pop culture phenomenon associ-ated with the social networking site that made 
news this week: Facebook stalking. A new Facebook ap-
plication called Breakup Notifier, which sends users an 
email when their potential love interests’ relationship 
status changes, had critics complaining that it may be bolstering social stalking syndrome. Developer Dan Loewenherz designed the app after a conversation about setting up his fiancée’s sister with someone in a relationship.
“If you’re going to check someone’s profile every 
day , you might as well get rid of the tedium and have 
the changes get delivered right to your inbox instead,” Loewenherz told the Huffington Post.
While the app was developed in roughly four hours 
as a joke, Breakup Notifier gained more than 100,000 users in less than 24 hours, according to the New York Daily News. 
“Now, whenever those 
friends change their relationship statuses, the app will email you 
— freeing you up for stuff like standing outside peoples’ 
windows, and stealing bits of their hair for your special 
doll,” Gawker editor Max Read joked.
But stalking behavior on Facebook isn’t a laughing 
matter. An ITT Technical Institute student from Tennes-see was charged with stalking and harassment last week after he sent “racially charged” and sexual messages via e-mail and Facebook to his instructors, according to WMC-TV 5 in Memphis. It would be tough to argue that Breakup Notifier’s functionality is a cause of malicious 
Facebook stalking. But in an age when privacy lines are 
eroding as fast as the digital world is expanding, it re-flects an unhealthy behavior that should be addressed.
Brendan Collett is a student at the University of South 
FloridaNew Facebook app draws criticismUWire
Brendan Collett
UWire
Under the advice of President Barack Obama, Attorney 
General Eric Holder  sent a letter to Congress stating that the Department of Justice will no longer uphold the 
Defense of Marriage Act as constitutional. The 1996 law, which has served as a rationale for denying same-sex couples the 
same marital rights as those afforded to heterosexual couples, is 
considered unconstitutional by the president. No president has ever taken this stance, and it sends a powerful message about the nation’s stance on social equality .Though the president has been opposed to the ban on gay marriage in America, many have criticized him for his relative silence on the issue. Though his rhetoric during his 2008 election campaign led many to believe he would quickly work to legalize same-sex marriage, Obama has made few steps toward this goal since taking office. 
This move, however, sends a powerful message to Obama’s supporters and detractors. By taking such an initiative, particularly during the beginning of election season, Obama has shown that 
his values are more important than potentially isolating vot-ers. It’s a stance is not common among first-term presidents. Though many have advocated for social change, few possess the gall to follow through on such initiatives because of the fear 
of angering religious or conservative voters. Though past dem-
ocratic presidents were opposed to the ban on gay marriage, none took the initiative that Obama did. 
By placing social equality over politics, Obama has in many 
ways become the lofty figure many had hoped he could be dur -
ing his election campaign. As he has spent much time working on fixing the economy and working toward ending conflicts in the Middle East, Obama has let falter many of the social changes he promised to make. This movement is a shift in the 
right direction.
For America to truly change and become socially equal, 
any transition must begin on the individual level. Though 
Obama’s declaration sends a powerful and resounding mes-sage to America and to the world, the many who will continue to oppose same-sex marriage will continue to be vocal in their opposition. Our nation has many social issues that need to be changed on a legal level, but until individuals take the initiative to support policies of equality rather than those of comfort and 
convenience, no significant change will ever occur.
The Heights, Boston College via UWIREPresident: Act is
unconstitutionalUWire
Dan Ottaunick
UWireTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rahm Emanuel complained that 
he didn’t know it was OK to bring a 
ventriloquist’s dummy to a debate. He marveled at a tiny model of Tokyo somebody gave him and couldn’t wait 
to crush it while wearing a Godzilla 
suit.
He even described the time those 
AWOL Wisconsin lawmakers were tossed down a water slide by David Axelrod, political adviser to President Barack Obama.
All right, it wasn’t THAT Rahm 
Emanuel, the one elected mayor of 
Chicago on Tuesday . It was a mystery 
tweeter whose obscenity-laced com-ments during the mayoral race were so popular they attracted 38,000 fol-lowers.
If all those followers had been votes, 
the person behind the Twitter account named “MayorEmanuel” would have finished fifth in the race.
Whoever the fake Rahm Eman-
uel was, he is tweeting no more. The tweeter joked that he had entered “a time vortex” after Emanuel’s victory and signed off.
“They’d better have coffee in the 
parallel (expletive) dimension I’m en-tering tonight, or I’m breaking right back out.”
The identity of the fake Emanuel 
was so intriguing that the real Rahm offered to donate $5,000 to a charity of his or her choice if the tweeter 
came forward. No one did.
During the campaign, the tweets 
were popular for their absurdity and incessant profanity — the latter drawn 
from Emanuel’s real-life affinity for 
four-letter words. And the make-believe Emanuel was prolific, posting nearly 2,000 tweets since September.n HE HELPED SAVE THE LIFE OF A FELLOW 
OFFICER WHO COLLAPSED AT THE GYM.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer 
When Henri Belleville became a University Police officer, 
he knew he’d be expected to help his fellow fallen officers. 
But he didn’t expect that would be in a fitness center.
He didn’t know he’d get an award for what he was about 
to do.
But on Thursday morning, he stood in front of the may-
or, the city manager, his own police chief and about 50 other people who were there to thank him for his part in saving Gainesville Police Department Maj. Rick Hanna’s life.
“I don’t think we could be any more proud of him,” said 
Linda Stump, UPD police chief. “He was called off-duty and he didn’t hesitate.”
It was a Saturday — his day off. Belleville and his wife 
had just walked in the door of Gainesville Health and Fit-
ness Center when they watched David Mitchell, one of the 
employees, punch through a glass case on a nearby wall, pull out the automated external defibrillator and dash to the gym. He rounded the corner and saw Hanna lying on the floor surrounded by five people taking turns at chest compressions.
Twenty minutes earlier, Hanna was on the Stairmaster. 
His heart rate was cruising around 180 beats per minute when it raced to 200 bpm. It caused an electrode in his brain 
to misfire, shutting off his heart, said his wife, Marlene 
Hanna.
Around 11:30 a.m., Jan. 22, Rick Hanna’s heart stopped 
beating. Marlene Hanna and other employees took turns doing CPR compressions and shocked Rick Hanna once be-fore the ambulance got there. 
A half hour later, Rick Hanna came to in North Florida 
Regional Medical Center with a busted lip from the fall, but otherwise unharmed. He’s been at home recovering since.
At the ceremony Thursday, other officers gathered around Belleville, Mitchell and the other employees who helped Hanna for handshakes, hugs and pats on the back.
Belleville said the fact that Hanna is a fellow police of-
ficer wouldn’t have changed a thing.
“It didn’t matter who he was,” Belleville said. “They 
were not going to die in that gym.”8, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
Alex Orlando / Alligator
University Police officer Henri Belleville receives an award from Gainesville Police Chief Tony Jones at Gainesville Health 
and Fitness Center. Belleville was one of six people who helped save the life of GPD Maj. Rick Hanna in January.
Officer awarded 
for heroic action
LOCAL
By JENNA MESCON
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The Pledge 5 Foundation, a Gainesville 
non-profit organization that hosts fundraisers 
in support of local charities, is using a reality 
show-based competition to choose the new di-rector of Pledge 5, a position complete with a $46,708 compensation package.
The competition, known as Pledge 5 Ap-
prentice, is a spin-off of the popular reality show “The Apprentice,” said Jason Bowman, founder and president of the Pledge 5 Foundation.  
The Pledge 5 Public Service Social, a Paynes 
Prairie highway cleanup and barbeque, was the site of the kickoff of the Pledge 5 Apprentice competition Sunday .  
Contestants were asked to bring their re-
sumes and their game faces for interviews at the Pledge 5 Open Call, the first of which was held Feb. 17 and the second prior to the cleanup Sunday . 
Despite the current state of the economy and 
the great opportunity that the competition pres-ents, the response was less than anticipated. A total of three applicants attended the open calls, Bowman said.
Those who made it through the initial inter -
view round are now required to attend a num-ber of Pledge 5 events, one of which was the highway cleanup Sunday .  At these events surprise competitions will 
arise as they compete to secure the director position.  Applicants will compete until a final elimination when performance on all challeng-es will be assessed and one competitor is left. The final competitor earns the job.  
“I want the right person to take over,” Bow-
man said. “I think if you hire based on one meet-ing, you only know part of the person.  Seeing them in action gives me the ability to be more 
objective in my decision making.” 
The competitors will attend a number of 
events from Feb. 20 to April 30, with a pause in 
the competition for Spring Break.  
Contestants will put in 15 to 20 hours a week 
over the course of the competition.  
“The experience of applying for this job 
is much like an internship,” Bowman said. “Whether they win or lose, competitors take 
away a great deal of experience.”
Each round of the competition is being re-
corded and made into webisodes, which began 
with the highway cleanup. The final segment and final elimination will air on May 1.Charity puts on reality show
NewsNational
Casting multiple ballots is considered an offense against Student Body
tected until somebody made a deal 
about it,” Ossip said. “It definitely shows the need for an electronic database to keep track of voting.”
According to Supervisor of 
Elections Amanda Griffin, the SG office staff is checking voter lists this week for any inconsistencies or students who cast more than one ballot, like it does every se-mester.
If any students are found to 
have cast more than one ballot, they will be referred to the Student Body Supreme Court, according to SG election codes. Student Body Supreme Court 
Chief Justice David Nigliazzo said the court will usually refer those 
students to the 
Dean of Stu-
dents’ Office 
because it is 
considered an offense against the Student Body.He said there have been in-
stances of students double-voting in the past, but only one or two people at a time. Elections have 
been invalidated before, but not in 
recent years.
Nigliazzo said he has not yet 
heard of any students violating 
election rules this semester, but expects the SG office staff to finish checking the records by sometime early next week.
“As of right now nothing has 
been brought to my desk,” he 
said.
The Student Senate will vote to 
validate the election results during 
Tuesday’s Senate meeting. 
VOTING , from page 1Fake Emanuel gains 
big Twitter audience
StudentGovernment“I want the right person                  
to take over.”
Jason Bowman
President of Pledge 5 Foundation By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Local politics just couldn’t com-
pete with Gators basketball Thurs-
day night.
Thirty-five people, including 
media, campaign managers and 
11-month-old twins, listened to 
three District 3 candidates discuss lowering apartment prices, keep-ing bars open until 3 a.m. and block tuition at a forum set up by UF’s Student Government.
“I can’t deny that I was disap-
pointed,” said candidate Susan Bottcher about the turnout. “It’s 
tough. You’re up against Gator re-
ligion: sports.”
About a dozen boxes of Papa 
John’s cheese pizza sat in the back of the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom next to a voter registration stand. Election staff gave out stickers and Tootsie Rolls with American flag wrappers.
One person, Student Sen. Bret 
Yaw, filled out a voter registration form. He said the turnout could have been better but didn’t know what to attribute it to.
“It’s like asking why more peo-
ple don’t vote in SG elections,” he said.Bottcher, Rob Zeller and Ozzy 
Angulo discussed student-related 
issues such as apartment costs. 
Jimmy Harnsburger was out of town, and Ramon Trujillo did not 
respond to organizers’ e-mails.
Zeller said the best way to keep 
rates cheap for students is to keep 
rates cheap for the owners of the 
apartments.
Angulo said he wants to work 
with towing companies to stop 
“predatory towing.”
Bottcher said extra apartment 
fees need to be addressed.
“That’s a huge chunk of change 
when you’re trying to find housing and buy books and feed yourself and have a little bit of money left over for entertainment,” she said.
Bryan Griffin, Zeller’s cam-
paign coordinator and a UF law student, said many students are apathetic about local politics.
“It’s difficult to get people in-
volved when they feel they don’t have a personal stake in it,” he said.
He said he understands how 
hard it can be to get students inter -
ested.
“I’d still love to see more than 
35 students out, even if it is basket-ball night,” Griffin said.
 SPRING BREAK IS THE BEGINNING 
OF TOURISM SEASON IN THE CITY. 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Spring Break T-shirts, beer cozies, thong 
bikinis and Mardi Gras beads fill the shelves 
at the Paradise Found store on Panama City 
Beach. The shop is hiring extra staff and will 
maintain extended hours through March and April.
“Now we are just waiting,” said store 
manager Dean Chon on a recent sunny af-
ternoon as he folded T-shirts and tended the 
store’s only customers, a retired couple from the Midwest.
Businesses up and down this strip of tur -
quoise Gulf waters and white-sand beach are anxiously waiting, hoping and counting on 
thousands of teens and twenty-somethings 
to arrive en masse for Spring Break 2011.
A strong Spring Break will be an impor -
tant sign the area has moved past last year’s 
BP oil spill, which brought some tar balls and 
oil-covered debris from the blown-out rig to 
the once-pristine beach. A weak Spring Break 
will be another tough hit for the beach that had high hopes for 2010 with the opening of a 
new, international airport before the spill ru-
ined summer tourism along a 200-mile swath of Florida’s Panhandle.
“Spring Break kicks off the whole summer 
travel season,” said Dan Rowe, president 
of the Panama City Beach Convention and 
Visitors’ Bureau. “This March is especially important because it is our first big tourism month since they finally killed the Deepwater 
Horizon,” the well off Louisiana responsible 
for it all.
Rowe and his staff have made the rounds 
of colleges in the Midwest, distributing gift cards and promoting convenient flights to 
the new Northwest Florida Beaches Interna-
tional Airport. They’ve visited the University of Michigan, Ohio State University and the 
University of Wisconsin, among other Mid-
western campuses.
They next plan to visit schools in Georgia and Tennessee with later Spring Break dates.
In the meantime, the local economy has 
been buoyed by a steady flow of retirees seeking a break from the brutal northern 
winter. Panama City Beach saw an 8 percent 
increase in its tourism development tax col-lections in December over the same month in 2009, Rowe said.
The city is offering winter resident ap-
preciation days to lure more of the northern snowbirds, while making the transition to spring with an aggressive online campaign to let college students know that the weather 
is good and the beach is clean. Businesses 
are offering deals on the Panama City Beach website for visitors with student IDs on ev-
erything from airboat tours and limousine 
rides to hot wings.
The message, Rowe said, is that the beach 
has moved past the oil spill and is ready for 
tourists.
“We never got any of the really big nasty stuff that they got in some of the areas, just some tar balls here and there and the amount of product they’ve been able to pick up has gone down dramatically in the last several 
months. The recovery is telling the world that 
Panama City Beach is here and that it is back to normal,” Rowe said.
The marketing blitz appears to be paying 
off. Southwest Airlines said its flights into Panama City are full the weekends of March 11 and 19. Travel companies are generally re-porting solid bookings.
Ticket sales on Expedia.com to Panama 
City Beach for March are up by 156 percent compared to last year, said Devon Nagle, an Expedia spokesman. “Bookings for April are 
up as well,” he said, but still too early to give 
definitive results.
Expedia was offering package deals on 
flights and a five-night hotel stay in Panama 
City from locations including Chicago, Dallas 
and New York. Prices on Thursday ranged from $871 to $1,502 per person.
Panama City ranked 45th among Orbitz.
com’s Spring Break destinations in 2010 and 
fell slightly to 51st this year, Jeanenne Tor -
natore, senior editor for Orbitz. The top 20 destinations booked on the travel website for Spring Break are Orlando, Las Vegas, Can-cun, Phoenix, Fort Lauderdale, Fort Myers, 
Tampa, New York, Los Angeles and Denver.
Minnesota-based Travel Leaders, a lead-
ing travel company, said Panama City was 
not among its top destinations for 2011 in a recent survey. But the survey of the compa-
ny’s agents found that 62 percent said 2011 
bookings to the Gulf Coast were the same or higher than 2010 — a positive sign for post-
spill tourism, she said.
Mack Carter and his family have operat-
ed Shuckums Oyster Bar & Seafood Grill on 
Panama City Beach for more than 30 years. Last year was the toughest because of the oil 
spill.
“We hope the Spring Break crowd will 
come back. We have plenty of good, fresh 
Apalachicola oysters that were not affected by the oil,” he said.
As his employees poured buckets of raw 
oysters into ice containers at the edge of a long bar, Carter said Spring Break 2011 is important for the local economy and for mo-rale.
“We hope we will fill up this whole restau-
rant,” he said. “I’m anticipating large crowds and lots of good, clean fun.”
Daniel Estaffa’s friends opened the 
Hook’d Bar and Grill that he manages on July 23 — in the middle of the oil spill. Estaffa has had mostly quiet days so far at the beach-front grill, which sits at the entrance of the 
beach’s main fishing pier. He’s heard stories 
about wild Spring Break crowds on Panama City Beach in the past, but he isn’t sure what to expect this year.
“We are more family oriented but we are 
not opposed to Spring Break dollars,” Estaffa said while pouring a beer for a retiree at the end of his bar. “All dollars are vital for us because most restaurants fold in their first year.”FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
AP Photo
In this March 20, 2008 file photo, spring breakers take part in a dance contest during 
MTV Spring Break activities in Panama City Beach. 
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Rob Zeller speaks to a group of about 35 people during a City Commission candidate forum in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom on Thursday night.
CITY ELECTIONSCommission hopefuls bring latest debate to campus
Panama City businesses prepare for Spring BreakersFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011n ALLIGATOR, 11 10, ALLIGATORn FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
***6 Bedroom House***
Walk to class. Pool. 2 living rooms. Game 
room. Ample Parking. Move in August 5th. 
Please contact John @ 561-866-8234 for 
additional info.
2-25-4-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011   ALLIGATOR , 13
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1600
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.No move in fees and $500 off March!Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         4-20-66-2WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-1-11-29-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    3-3-11-30-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-
11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-1-11-19-2Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com3-1-11-14-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
Beautiful. 1bd. 1ba. loft 5 min on freeway 
from SFC Renovated with tile & carpet.Pool,
Clubhouse, Exercise Room, Quiet location.
$425mo $425sec. $45appl. fee.
472-6491.
3-1-11-10-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    3-4-11-12-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Downtown garage/studio apt, off-street
parking, privacy. Behind Hippodrome, on bus lines. $420/mo, 1st, last and sec.Call 352 373-6551, leave message.3-4-9-2
Short term lease. Quiet, clean effi-
ciency. Archer Rd. View to woods.
Call 352 316-2966                     2-28-11-5-2
UF 7 blks, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL, HOT 
TUB, 2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park, respon -
sible students or professionals only.  Plasma TV incl. May-Aug $1775/mo; $2375/mo Aug on. Summer only option or yr lease. 352-222-0211   3-1-11-5-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
14, ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts
3 BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft.
Large Rooms, Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.
Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo $600 Deposit
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
216 SW 12th Street.
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C
Carpet, Across from UF Stadium
1830 NW 1st Avenue $295/Mo, $300 
Deposit
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit
2-25-11-1-2
Arlington Square. Right downtown! Bus: 1&5. 
5 min bike to campus/15min walk. 2BR/2BA 
townhouse: high ceilings, in courtyard w/ 
pool. May-July. Unfurn/util not included. 
$470/person. 352 318 1014. jsmyth@ufl.edu   
3-1-10-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 orjfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-634-1893. Available immediately.    3-1-10-4
Looking for a male roommate who is very nice & easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo util & dish network tv incl. If interested call Joe at 240-4536. No smokers, alcohol, drugs or overnight guests please.  2-25-7-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899
___________________________________.
DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
ESTATE SALE!
Fri 2/25 - Sat 2/26 8-4. 6624 NW 28th Terrace, Gainesville. LOW prices! Furniture, Washer & Dryer..much more.   2-25-1-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
RUG LIQUIDATION SALE! 75% Off Every 
Rug. FREE SHIPPING/BUY NOW. 200,000 
Rugs Must Go www.eSaleRugs.com 
(866)647-3965    2-25-1-10
DO YOU EARN $800.00 IN A DAY? Your Own Local Candy Route 25 Machines and 
Candy All for $9995.00 All Major Credit 
Cards Accepted (877)915-8222  AINB02653    
2-25-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come with one year parts and labor warranties! Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-1298 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011   ALLIGATOR , 15
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
2002 BMW Z3 3.0 roadster
green metallic/beige leather; 91,500 miles, 
good condition; $12,000; Loretta 352-665-5285   3-2-5-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...
Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!
Call Gary at 352-682-8838,
email dlimotors@yahoo.com or
stop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-
12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
3-18-11-70-13 
WANTED-COMIC BOOKS, sports & bubble 
gum cards. Mags, toys, movies & music, rock 
and roll stuff anything pre 1975. Please call 
Mike: (800)723-5572 $pd    2-25-1-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks 
P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, 
monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. 
About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   
2-25-11-17-14
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
NETWORK ASST
SALES CONSULTANTS
CEO ASSISTANT
Full time positions.
Send resume to hr@gleim.com
www.gleim.com         3-14-11-10-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply 
in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 
NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 
9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    2-28-11-10-14
Office Asst Paid Internship in Alachua. 
$12.00 hourly 10-15 hours weekly. Flexible 
schedule. Knowledge of Quickbooks a plus. 
Email resume to BiopressInfo@gmail.com.   
3-1-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive po-
sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to 
alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-4-11-11-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems seeks 
sales consultants for Gainesville & Ocala.  
Must have reliable transportation. BG Check 
and Drug Test Required. Fax resume to 352-376-9236 or e-mail info@cpss.net.   3-3-11-10-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
PT Tennis Clay-Court & Gen Maintenance 
Haile Plantation C.C. 6:30-9:30am shift + 1 wkend day, 10-15 hrs/wk. Must be reliable/responsibe. Tennis exp + G'ville residence a+. Bob 335-4105                    2-28-11-5-14
Classic Fare Catering, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, has an im-mediate opening for a PT Catering Sales Coordinator. The position is M-F 12pm-5pm. Candidates can apply online at www.gator-dining.com or in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.    2-25-11-3-14
Experienced swim lesson instructor needed 
for local program. Part time hrs either in mornings or late afternoons. Please email resume with lesson experience and 3 refer-ences to jwilby@cox.net   3-16-11-10-14
HOMEWORK COACH NEEDED
for a 10th grader & a 5th grader who both need help in math & science. Approx 5-6 hrs/wk.-flexible, $10/hr. Please email credentials to: glennhmcinnes@bellsouth.net   3-2-11-5-14
Great deal!
Brand new home, perfect for college student, 
quiet community. 3 bed, two bath. Wont last. 699/mo Call 904-992-0141    3-18-11-10-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications 
using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small 
company in G’ville, great work environment. 
About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   
2-25-11-17-14
16, ALLIGATOR  � FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
Project Manager/Account Director wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-
14
Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual 
with good attention to detail to work in an-
tibody purification and test development. 
Knowledge of ELISA methodology and basic 
immunology is desirable. Basic laboratory 
skills and ability to manage multiple projects 
required. B.S. in scientific field preferred; 
laboratory experience may be substituted. 
Email resume to info@elisa-tek.com   3-2-
11-4-14
Busy couple in need of dog sitting for a 
friendly dalmatian as well as light household 
chores. Approx. 15 hrs a wk. Please email 
letter / brief resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com 
with references.    3-3-5-14
ASAP! New Pay Increase! 34-46 cpm. 
Excellent Benefits. Need CDL-A & 3 mos re-
cent OTR. (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.
com    2-25-1-14
Between High School and College? Over 
18? Drop that entry level position. Earn 
what you're worth!!!. Travel w/Successful 
Young Business Group. Paid Training. 
Transportation, Lodging Provided. (877)646-
5050.    2-25-1-14
Driver - Daily or weekly pay. Single source 
dispatch. No tractor older than 3 years. 
Safety bonuses paid quarterly. CDL-A, 3 
months recent OTR experience. (800)414-
9569. www.driveknight.com    2-25-1-14
Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL 
NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Susan ext. 227 
SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC   2-25-1-14
ESTABLISHED PRINT ADVERTISING Co. 
Hiring Reps and Territory Managers: Verified Leads Provided, Up to 50% Comm., Gas and Car Maintenance Program. Call Mike (419)704-7675    2-25-1-14
Regional Opportunity 100% Owner Operator 
Reefer Company. $1,000 SIGN-ON BONUS! Home Weekly. Call (800)237-8288 or visit www.suncocarriers.com    2-25-1-14
Drivers - FOOD TANKER DRIVERS NEEDED OTR positions available NOW! CDL-A w/ Tanker REQ'D. Outstanding pay & Benefits! Call a recruiter TODAY! (877)882-6537 www.oakleytransport.com    2-25-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNGThe time is now to have your lawn & shrubs look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-0069 to schedule an appointment todayprogreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15French tutor
Fluent and very affordable
Grammar, conversation, vocabulary
Contact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     
3-16-1-15
FREE TUTORING! Prepare for Mid-terms at 
the Teaching Center and Reading & Writing 
Center in Broward Hall. TC offers live tutor-
ing – plus TV & podcasts – in various math, 
science & other classes; see
www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu for courses and 
times.  RWC offers help with any writing as-
signment; see www.at.ufl.edu/rwcenter for 
details.    2-25-5-15
How much do you want to pay for cleaning 
services? Call Kleanaid at 352-240-3642 or 
610-306-5153 and let us know, we will fit 
your budget!    2-25-1-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696
3-31-20-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. 
Wentworth. 1-866-494-9115. Rated A+ by 
the Better Business Bureau.    2-25-1-15
$500 Cash Loan, No Credit Check, 6 months 
to Repay, Payments $55 biweekly. $1000/
month income and active checking account 
required. Call 24 hrs (760)569-6474    2-25-
1-15
Have a fixed annuity? GET YOUR MONEY 
TODAY! Cash out All or a Portion avoid sur-render charges. Learn more: (904) 206-7303 
www.freemancommerciallending.com/annu-
ity    2-25-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (877)206-5165, www.Centura.us.com    2-25-1-15
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA approved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769.    2-25-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904    2-25-1-15
 Approved for VA Educations benefits. Learn to Operate a Crane or Bulldozer. Heavy Equipment Training. National Certification. Georgia School of Construction. www.Heavy5.com Use code "FLCNH" (866)218-2763    2-25-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
PREGNANT? CONSIDERING ADOPTION? 
A childless energetic, spiritual, committed 
couple seeks to adopt. Financially secure. 
Healthcare professionals. Expenses paid. 
Gil & Dave (888)580-ADOPT (2367). FL 
Bar#0150789    2-25-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  Monday - Thursday, 2/28 
– 3/3 from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions 
on M & R, Math on T & W.  Call 392-2010 to 
register and learn the room location.    2-25-
5-20
Share your own life story. Participants over 
40 years old are needed for research test-ing behavioral theories on real lives on all real behaviors- those that are normal, good, 
legal, and illegal. Please contact Zenta at 
ZENTAGS@UFL.EDU or (352-222-0883)
2-28-5-20
ART AUCTION TO BENEFIT CHILDREN'S 
CHARITY - NO BUYER'S PREMIUM and 
several artworks with no reserve! Chagall, 
Picasso, Dali, Miro, Max, Neiman, Pino, 
Maimon, Florida Highwaymen and more! 
FREE food and drinks and raffle prizes 
BATERBYS ART AUCTION GALLERY- 
ORLANDO, Saturday, February 26 - 4pm 
Preview, 5pm Auction - 9101 International 
Dr., Unit 1008, Orlando, FL 32819.  RSVP 
at www.baterbys.com or call (866)537-1004 
or email winterauction2011@baterbys.com 
AB#2746 AU#3750    2-25-1-20Advertise in Over 100 Papers through-
out Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising 
Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! 
(866)742-1373 www.florida-classifieds.com    
2-25-1-20.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-
Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-
Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- 
HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...
Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.
2-28-11-2-21
Sports
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n FLORIDA PICKED UP ITS 11TH SEC WIN AND 
CLINCHED AT LEAST A SHARE OF THE EAST TITLE.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
After 11 days filled with pain, questions and around-the-
clock treatment, Chandler Parsons was ready to contribute 
Thursday night. 
The senior forward spent 11 minutes feeling things out be-
fore exploding for 12 points and five rebounds in a dominant second-half performance. 
Parsons’ return sparked No. 13 Florida (22-5, 11-2 South-
eastern Conference) in a 71-62 win over Georgia (18-9, 7-6 SEC) in the O’Connell Center. 
And there’s no question he earned it. “I’ve never seen a guy work harder than he’s worked (to 
recover),” UF coach Billy Donovan said. “He plays hard, he’s aggressive, but what he did to get himself back was unbeliev-
able.”
Donovan added that Parsons spent at least five hours each 
day getting treatment, from 8 a.m. all the way though having 
an assistant trainer in his room each night. 
UF’s coach even recalled finding Parsons asleep on the 
trainer’s table one morning, leg wrapped in a boot. 
“I’ve put in more hours in my life in the training room than I 
ever had, combined, in my whole career,” Parsons said. 
Parsons’ hard work paid major dividends for the Gators, as 
his seven points, two rebounds and one assist in the first three minutes of the second half erased a seven-point deficit. 
After sitting for the game’s first 7:11, the senior played 30 
minutes, wearing only a skin-tight thigh pad as he flashed his usual form. 
“I just tried to play my game and let it come to me,” Par -
sons said. “In the second half, I started crashing a little bit more, 
POLL RESULTS UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL GAME POSTPONED ONLINE
Previous question:  How 
many of its final four regular-season games will the Florida men’s basketball team win? Percent (Votes)
Three 49% (19)
Two 31% (12)
All four 15% (6)
One 5% (2)
39 TOTAL VOTESn Keep an eye on alligatorSports.org all weekend for 
updated stories on Florida men’s and women’s basket-ball, baseball, softball and a number of other Gators sports competing in Gainesville and on the road. And follow us on Twitter at twitter.com/alligatorSports.n After waiting more than two weeks for a second 
chance at Vanderbilt, severe weather in Nashville, Tenn., 
postponed UF’s Thursday night contest against the Commodores. The game will be played today at 5 p.m., according to Vanderbilt Vice Chancellor David Williams. 
—MATT WATTSMatt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida senior foward Chandler Parsons drives to the hoop during the second half of the Gators’ 71-62 victory over 
Georgia on Thursday night in the O’Connell Center. Parsons shot 7 for 12 in his first game back from injury.
Parsons returns from injury, leads UF over Georgia
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
Boston College used all three of its 
weekend starters Thursday night. All 
Florida needed was Brian Johnson.
Johnson (2-0) was nearly perfect in six 
innings of work as the Gators (5-0) rolled to a 4-0 win over the Eagles (2-2)  in the 
series opener.
“Brian was outstanding,” coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said. “He was just outstand-
ing tonight.”
The Gators’ left-handed starter retired 
the first 17 batters he faced before giving up a line-drive single to Boston College center fielder Tom Bourdon with two outs in the sixth inning.
Like he did all night, Johnson got 
ahead of Bourdon in the count, throw-ing strikes on the first two pitches of the at-bat. Bourdon then hit a fly ball in foul territory down the third-base line, where freshman third baseman Zack Powers made an attempted diving catch, but came up empty-handed.
Bourdon lined Johnson’s next pitch, 
a slider, just over Powers’ head for the Eagles’ first hit of the game.
It was the only one Johnson would 
give up on the evening.
He got out of the 
sixth inning by inducing 
a ground ball from the 
next BC batter. Johnson 
returned in the seventh, but O’Sullivan pulled the lefty after he walked the first batter he faced on four straight pitches. 
Johnson gave up one 
hit and one walk while striking out five batters en route to UF’s fifth straight win to start the season. He threw 70 pitches, 48 of which went for strikes.
The lefty said he approached his sec-
ond start much like his first: trying to get Johnson keys victory over BC
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
Despite his team’s fifth consecutive 
win to open the season, Florida’s coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan was visibly perturbed 
after Thursday night’s 4-0 victory over 
Boston College. 
Following a bizarre sequence midway 
through the ninth inning, UF’s skipper 
held a brief team meeting in the dugout before he met with the media.
While not specifying what he told 
his huddled players, O’Sullivan said, “We’ve got to stay focused with what we’re doing. We want to come out ev-
eryday and take a good infield and out-
field, take a good BP [batting practice]. “We want to change our approach. 
I don’t want us looking too far ahead. I don’t want us feeling too good about ourselves. It’s a long season, and we ex-
pect to do things professionally day in 
and day out. I want their frame of mind 
to be right.” 
With two outs in the 
ninth inning, Eagles 
shortstop Brad Zapenas 
ripped a ball down the 
left field line, but the ball struck the umpire, 
caroming back to Florida third baseman Zack Powers. 
Powers picked up the ball and rifled 
a throw down to second base, likely throwing out Zapenas to end the game. Following win, Sully upset
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 18SEE NOTEBOOK, PAGE 18SEE HOOPS, PAGE 18
Johnson
BaseballUF BASEBALL18, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
Special to the Alligator / Tim Casey, GatorCountry.com
Florida sophomore Brian Johnson swings during the Gators’ 4-0 win against Boston College on Thursday at McK -
ethan Stadium. Johnson pitched six shutout innings, scored the game’s first run and had an RBI single.
n UF STRUCK OUT 14 TIMES 
BUT PLATED SEVEN RUNS.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
After nearly throwing a per -
fect game in her previous outing, 
Hannah Rogers did not disappoint 
Thursday afternoon.
The freshman continued her 
streak of dominance, allowing only two singles and three walks while striking out seven, as the 
No. 4 Gators (10-0) scored seven runs on seven hits in a 7-0 win over Indiana in their first game at 
the Cathedral City Classic in Palm Springs, Calif. 
In her third two-hit shutout 
of the season, Rogers moved her record to 4-0 and once again dis-
played her ability to consistently 
shut down opponents’ best hitters. 
In four starts, starting No. 1-5 
hitters have managed only five hits 
in 50 at-bats, including 11 strike-
outs, against Rogers. 
Offensively, the Gators’ typi-
cally high-powered lineup had 
its share of ups and downs on the day. 
The inability to get into a rhythm 
seemed to throw off the Gators, who failed to hit a home run for 
the first time all sea-son and had only two extra-base hits.  
Much of that had to do with Hoosiers starter Morgan Mel-loh’s inconsistent 
pitching.
The NCAA’s 24th all-time 
strikeout leader fanned 14 Gators, but she also walked nine as she threw 170 pitches to Rogers’ 97. After being shut down for the 
first two innings, UF took advan-tage of Melloh’s inability to find the strike zone by playing small 
ball. 
After Samantha Holle walked 
to start the inning, freshman Kasey Fagan singled and Michelle Moult-
rie walked to load the bases. 
Left fielder Kelsey Bruder drove 
in Holle with a sacrifice fly, and 
Megan Bush followed with an RBI 
single. 
Melloh seemed to settle down 
the next two innings, striking out 
the side in the fourth and retiring  Florida in order in the fifth, but the 
Gators put the game out of hand 
with a four-run sixth inning. 
Once again, UF’s patience paid 
off as it loaded the bases after Bush doubled and Cheyenne Coyle and Tiffany DeFelice walked. 
Fagan and second baseman Aja 
Paculba drew consecutive bases-
loaded walks, and Moultrie hit a 
two-run single to left, putting the Gators up 6-0. 
Holle later recorded her first 
RBI of the season when she plated 
Brittany Schutte with a seventh-
inning double. Rogers shuts out Hoosiers, picks up fourth win of season
Lefty sets school record
ahead in the count early. He did just that, throwing first-
pitch strikes to 18 of the 20 batters he faced Thursday.
“He’s been mixing really good and doesn’t miss his 
spots often,” O’Sullivan said.
Johnson has been almost unhittable in 12 innings of 
work this season. Opposing hitters are batting .081 against the lefty, as he has given up just three hits in 37 at-bats. He has allowed just one other batter to reach base — his seventh-inning walk to BC’s Marc Perdios.
Before giving up the hit to Bourdon, Johnson set a school 
record by retiring 27 consecutive batters dating back to last Friday’s season opener against USF. 
Behind Johnson’s second straight strong outing, the 
Gators’ offense didn’t need to produce much. But that 
didn’t prevent Johnson from helping his own cause.
The lefty scored the first run of the game in the second 
inning, when catcher Mike Zunino hit his first double of 
the season down the left-field line. In the fourth, Johnson singled to left-center field to score right fielder Preston Tucker from second.
The Gators plated another run in the sixth and one in 
the eighth.
“We know that if we can push a run or two across every 
inning or two, that Johnson is going to go and shut them down,” Tucker said. 
Left-handed reliever Steven “Paco” Rodriguez tossed 
the final three innings to record his first save of the sea-son.
The team’s face off again today at 5 p.m. Right-hand-
ed pitcher Hudson Randall (1-0) is scheduled to take the mound for the Gators.BASEBAll , from page 17
UF continues errorless streak
But second baseman Josh Adams wasn’t 
paying attention, and the ball sailed past him into right field. 
“I don’t know what happened,” 
O’Sullivan said. “Josh’s head was turned, and he probably should have kept his head on a swivel and followed the ball. I haven’t talked to him about it yet.”
GATORS  ERRORLESS  STREAK  CONTINUES : 
Since shortstop Nolan Fontana’s sixth-in-
ning error in the series finale against South Florida, UF has played errorless baseball for 21.2 straight innings. 
During that stretch, the Gators’ oppo-
nents have committed seven errors. 
While Brian Johnson was throwing 
darts Thursday, his defense was outstand-ing all afternoon.
Kamm Washington ran down several 
balls in center field. Fontana made two tough plays to his right, and right fielder Preston Tucker made a diving stab to pre-serve Johnson’s no-hit bid. 
“It’s so easy to play the field when John-son’s throwing,” Tucker said. “He throws 
strikes and keeps everyone on their toes.”
Florida’s right fielder said he feels 
more comfortable in his new position the 
more reps he gets. He added that studying the bats, and the sounds they produce, has helped him read balls better.
“It really worked out today knowing 
the sound it’s going to make, whether it’s hit hard or not,” Tucker said. “I got a re-ally good jump on it.”
ETC.: Fontana scored his eighth run of the 
season, crossing the plate at least once in 
every game thus far. … Because of its odd scheduling, the Eagles leave Gainesville after tonight’s game, travelling to Fort My-ers to play the Boston Red Sox in an an-nual exhibition Saturday, before returning Sunday for the series finale. ... Boston Col-lege threw its top three starters Thursday. NOTEBOOK , from page 17
started getting a little bit more active. I 
think my legs started to loosen up a bit.”
Parsons recorded only four points and 
two rebounds in the first half, something Donovan expected in the senior’s first 
game following a contact injury . 
But that all changed over the final 20 
minutes, when the senior returned to his 
usual, aggressive self.  
“In the second half, he just went out 
and played,” Donovan said. “He just kind of said, ‘I’m going after it,’ and got back to playing like he did.”
From there, the Gators never looked 
back, riding Parsons’ wave of energy to the win. 
“Just his presence picks up the team,” 
junior guard Erving Walker said. “He’s a great player. He does everything for us.”
The Gators struggled mightily in the 
first 14:40, falling behind 28-18 as Georgia shot 65 percent to UF’s 31.6. But Parsons’ performance gave the 
Gators a lead, and Kenny Boynton fueled a run that helped to extend it. 
After a 2-for-9 start, the sophomore 
guard drained a trio of three-pointers in just less than a minute and a half as the Gators expanded their advantage to eight. 
“He opened up the game. Those nine 
points were huge,” Donovan said. “That’s what he does.”
After connecting on the first two at-
tempts, Boynton was confident he would hit the third if he got the opportunity . 
“I was just thinking, ‘If I get open, I 
knew I was going to knock it down,’” Boynton said. 
With the victory, Florida clinched at 
least a share of the SEC East title. 
Still, the team’s focus remains squarely 
on capturing the overall SEC champion-ship, with the next step coming Saturday at Kentucky . 
“We came in focused when the SEC 
started, and I think we’re on a mission,” Boynton said. “We just want to win it all.”Boynton’s threes break open game
HOOPS , from page 17Softball
“It’s so easy to play the field 
when Johnson’s throwing.”
Preston Tucker
Florida junior right fielderFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
UF GYMNASTICS
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
While prepping for practice in 
the locker room earlier this week, 
it hit them. 
“The girls were saying, ‘We 
only have two more meets left, 
then it’s postseason,’” sopho-more Ashanée Dickerson said. 
“It’s gone by super fast. A lot 
faster than last year.” 
The Florida gymnastics team 
is a mere two meets away from tackling postseason competition, as the Southeastern Conference Championships and NCAA Re-
gionals kick off in mid-March.
Tonight, the Gators get one 
step closer to capping their regu-
lar season by traveling to Arkan-sas for their last SEC meet of the regular season.  
The squad holds an undefeat-
ed record with eight meets under its belt, and freshman all-around-er Alaina Johnson is starting to 
feel the grind of the long season. 
“I’ve never competed every 
weekend,” she said. “It’s start-
ing to actually come to me that the season is coming to the end 
just because my body is feeling it 
also. My mind is. 
“My whole body is worn 
out.” 
However, Johnson said sit-
ting out from the all-around spot the last two meets has helped re-energize her. She is ready to compete again tonight as an all-
arounder.
The coaching staff rested what 
Faehn called her “heavy hitters” in last weekend’s double compe-tition, allowing other gymnasts 
to step up to the plate. 
While Johnson and Mackenzie 
Caquatto only participated in two 
or three events, freshman walk-
ons Lauren Rose and Jade Wig-
gins were given 
the opportunity to compete for 
the first time in 
their college ca-reers.
After allow-
ing the other gymnasts a 
chance to get their feet wet in the Auburn and West Virginia meets, Faehn said the regular lineups 
will be back in play against the 
Razorbacks. 
“We’re putting people in there that we would hope and expect 
them to hit, but we have mis-
takes here and there, and that’s frustrating from a coach’s stand-point,” Faehn said.  “We’re used 
to being on this roll. We’re going 
to get back to that.” 
The coaching staff has already 
allowed Dickerson, a two-time All-American, to rest from all-
around twice this season, some-
thing she said will benefit her be-cause she won’t be too tired when the postseason rolls around.
Caquatto said the team has fo-
cused on eating right and getting enough sleep to make the most of its time in the gym to prepare for the heavy collection of meets. 
“In the gym, we’ve been just 
focusing on details and cheer -
ing and giving 100 percent even if you don’t have 100 percent to 
give,” Caquatto said.
“We’re still recovering from 
getting back over the double 
weekend and focusing honestly 
on only Arkansas,” Faehn added. 
“Then, it’s going to be only about Utah, and then we have the week off before SECs, and it’s about prepping and getting ready for 
that.” 
Though the gymnasts are try-
ing to stay focused, they’re still 
getting pumped up by looking at 
what lies ahead.  
“It’s really, really exciting,” 
Caquatto said.  “But I can’t rush 
myself. 
“We’re not there yet. I still 
need to stay focused on what’s at hand and what’s going on right now.”
Florida to face Arkansas in last regular-season SEC meetn ANDRES ECHAVARRIA AND 
TOMMY MOU WILL MISS THE JOHN HAYT COLLEGIATE INVITATIONAL.
By ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
The Florida men’s golf team will be re-
turning to the course this weekend, but 
without a couple of regular starters. 
Senior Andres Echavarria, who took 
home the individual title at the Gator In-
vitational two weeks ago, is returning to his native Columbia to participate in a 
Nationwide Tour event, while sophomore 
Tommy Mou will be sidelined because of a back injury.
The rest of the team will be traveling 
to Ponte Vedra Beach to play in the John Hayt Collegiate Invitational, which begins Sunday. 
UF coach Buddy Alexander said he is 
looking forward to the challenge of play-ing at Sawgrass Country Club, a solid 
course that poses plenty of risk/reward 
scenarios for players.
In the past, the Gators have had some 
uneven results in the John Hayt Invita-
tional. 
The last time Florida finished first was 
2005, when the team overcame a six-stroke 
deficit to win the title over Alabama. 
Since then, Alexander’s squad has ei-
ther finished in the middle of the pack or skipped the event. Last year, Florida finished in seventh, 23 shots behind first-place North Florida.
Despite UF’s No. 1 national ranking, Al-
exander is hesitant to call his team a favor -
ite for the event. He has spoken at length about how the strength of the team is its depth, and the loss of Echavarria and Mou negates that advantage to some extent. 
“We don’t pay attention to last year’s 
result,” Alexander said. “We’re a more 
grown-up team now, but I don’t feel all 
that good about our chances to win.”
Filling in for Echavarria and Mou will 
be junior DePaul transfer Michael Furci 
and freshman Payne Denman. 
Both golfers participated 
in the Gator Invitational as 
individuals. Furci finished ahead of Mou in the event, 
carding an 11-over-par 221 
for the three rounds. Den-
man, who was an unexpected opening-round star of the tournament after shoot-
ing a 1-over-71, struggled the rest of the 
way to an 18-over-228. 
Bank Vongvanij, meanwhile, has 
emerged as one of the NCAA’s top golfers, earning the senior national attention and award consideration. 
On Feb. 19, Vongvanij was put on the 
watch list for the Ben Hogan Award, given 
annually to the nation’s top golfer. Ear -
lier this week, Vongvanij was honored as 
the Southeastern Conference Player of the Week. Alexander believes any recognition 
Vongvanij receives is well-deserved. 
“He’s playing as well as anybody in the 
country right now, so it doesn’t come as a 
surprise to us,” Alexander said.
This weekend, Florida will face a field 
similar to the one it faced at the Gator In-vitational, which will include SEC rivals Arkansas, Auburn, LSU and Tennessee. 
If the Gators can win this tournament 
against a such a strong field — missing two of their top five golfers — they can safely consider themselves national cham-pionship contenders.Gators preparing for tourney without two top golfers
Johnson
Golf20, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
UF TRACK AND FIELD
By JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
Despite winning the 2010 NCAA Indoor 
Championship, a certain piece of hardware 
has eluded the No. 1 Florida men’s track and 
field squad — a Southeastern Conference crown.
The last time the men’s team won the SEC 
Indoor Championship Meet was 2004, which 
seems like an eternity for a perennial contend-
er.
“We’re always focused out here, but now 
everyone knows that it’s that time,” jump-
er Will Claye said. “This is when all the big 
marks have to come out, so we’re a little more focused.”
Claye, who is a candidate for The Bower -
man award along with sprinter Jeff Demps 
and fellow jumper Christian Taylor, has al-
ready qualified for the national meet in both the triple jump and long jump.
Joining Claye in pursuit of a conference 
title in the triple jump and long jump will be Omar Craddock and defending SEC triple-jump champion Taylor.
“We plan on sweeping the triple jump,” 
Claye said. “Me and Christian plan on doing something big in the long jump.”
In addition to jumping, another promising 
event for the Gators is the heptathlon, which features junior Gray Horn.
Horn, who automatically qualified for 
nationals with a victory at the Texas A&M Challenge on Jan. 29, has finished second and third, respectively , in his first two SEC Indoor 
Championship Meets.
“No one’s taking this one from me,” Horn 
said. “I’m going to go in there and do my job 
and kick-start my team. I am very confident going into this.”
Horn’s automatic-qualifying score at the 
Texas A&M Challenge totaled 5,747 points, the second-best mark in school history.
Meanwhile, the No. 21 women’s team will 
be aiming to win a second consecutive SEC In-door Championship.
Leading the women will be freshman dis-
tance runner Cory McGee, who posted the best women’s mile run mark (4:36.53) in the 
SEC this season.
“(McGee’s) fantastic. She’s gotten better 
every week, and she’s an extraordinarily fo-
cused competitor,” distance coach Todd Mor -
gan said.
McGee has won SEC Freshman of the Week twice this season for her efforts at the Nittany Lion Challenge (Jan. 15) and the FloTrack Husky Classic (Feb. 11).
While the Gators have high expectations 
for both their men’s and women’s squads this weekend in Fayetteville, Ark., coach Mike Holloway is confident his teams will perform well.
“You feel pressure when you’re not pre-
pared, but we’re very prepared,” Holloway said.
The Gators’ biggest challengers this week-
end will be LSU and host Arkansas.
Both Tigers squads are ranked No. 2 na-
tionally , while the Razorbacks women’s team ranks No. 4 and the men’s team is ranked No. 5.
“If we go out there and do what we’re sup-
posed to do, then no one can challenge us,” Claye said. “Honestly , we have a really good group of guys, and I feel like nobody on our team is intimidated by any other team out there.”
HOLLOWAY HEADED TO LONDON: Holloway 
always maintains that the Gators try to get better each week — and the UF coach is prac-
ticing what he preaches.
Holloway was named an assistant coach 
for Team USA in the 2012 Olympics in Lon-
don.
“It’s a great honor to be voted by my peers 
to represent the USA and be an assistant coach for the Olympic team,” Holloway said. “When I got the phone call, it was a chilling moment for me.
“I’m very proud and happy , but I’ve got a 
lot of work to do with the Gators before I even think about that.
“The big thing for me is that I’m excited 
to be representing the United States and to be around the world’s greatest athletes,” Hol-loway continued. “I’m also excited about the prospect of my family being able to go.
“I’ve been to London before, but my wife, 
my son and my daughter have never been there, so ultimately , it’s a crown jewel for the whole family.” Top ranking in tow, Gators men seeking elusive SEC title
n THE GATORS WILL SEND 
10 WOMEN AND 15 MEN TO THE MEET.
By MELISSA PENDER
Alligator Writer
This weekend is the final op-
portunity for four Florida seniors to 
leave a mark on college swimming.
The pressure is on for Balasz 
Gercsak, Alex Martin, Logan Storie 
and Michael Yuan as they travel to Athens, Ga., for the Bulldog Last Chance Meet. They will get one last opportunity to achieve automatic “A” qualification or a high enough “B” qualification for an invitation to the men’s NCAA Championships at Minnesota on March 24-26.
Yuan, a team captain and scholar 
athlete of the year, received his first-career NCAA “B” qualifying time at the Jan. 30 meet against Indian River State College. He said he needs to improve his time in the 100-yard butterfly to solidify his trip to Min-neapolis.
“It’s pretty much an all-or-noth-ing deal,” Yuan said. “My career is over if I don’t get it, so hopefully 
I can reach the time.”
Yuan said he 
and the other NCAA hopefuls 
have been doing 
everything pos-sible to improve their times.
The seniors 
will be accompanied by 11 under -
classmen on the men’s side who also hopes to join Florida’s automatic qualifiers, including Southeastern Conference title holders Conor Dw-yer and Marco Loughran, at the NCAA Championships.
Ten swimmers from the Gators 
women’s team will make the trip to the Last Chance Meet to vie for a 
spot in the women’s NCAA Cham-
pionships in Austin, Texas, on March 17-19. That includes junior Shara Stafford, who won a national title at last year’s NCAA Champion-ship as part of the 200 freestyle relay team and took sixth place individu-ally in the 50 free. Stafford, who was out for most 
of January and February with health issues, has already made the NCAA “B” cut for several events but hopes to achieve automatic qualification.
The Gators who make the cut this 
weekend will join the swimmers 
from the 200 medley and 800 free 
relays as well as automatic qualifiers freshman Elizabeth Beisel and junior Teresa Crippen. 
Nine other Gators will compete 
in Orlando this weekend at the Flor -
ida Swimming Senior Champion-ships and Time Trial.
Florida swimmers facing ‘last chance’ to qualify for NCAAs
Yuan
“No one’s taking this one from 
me. ... I’m going to go in there and 
do my job and kick-start my team.”
Gray Horn
UF junior