VOLUME 106 ISSUE 64 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Gators March for Babies raises $75,000
Participants raised $10,000 more than last year, pg 3.  
A Season for Giving
Soup kitchens, food pantries need holiday donations, pg 8. Debose has huge outing against Furman
Sophomore wide receiver Andre Debose set 
career highs for yards and touchdowns in UF’s 54-32 win on Saturday, pg. 14. The UF 
Rugby Football 
Club wins the 
Florida Cup for 
the third year in 
a row. See story, 
page 4.
84/61
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 14FLORIDA 54 FURMAN 32
UNPALATABLE
  TYLER JETT
 Alligator Staff Writer
 Bowl games used to be a birthright at Florida.
  They used to be second nature, like high-
powered offenses and sold-out home games and 
blowouts the week before Florida State — the 
Gators had beat their last ﬁ  ve Week 12 opponents by an average score of 49.8 points.
  Remember those days?
  “Nothing’s easy,” coach Will Muschamp said, 
“and we certainly don’t make it that way.”
  The Gators (6-5) came out ﬂ  at in a half-empty 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Saturday and near-
ly suffered what used to be unthinkable: a loss 
against an FCS opponent. But Florida righted the 
ship, holding on to beat Furman 54-32 in a game closer than the ﬁ  nal score indicated.
  The Paladins surprised the Gators by run-
ning triple options out of the Wing-T offense to take an early edge, and for a time it looked like Furman (6-5) would pull the upset. But after fall-ing behind 15-0, redshirt senior quarterback John Brantley guided the offense. He ﬁ  nished with a 
career-high 329 passing yards and four touch-
downs.
  “We just kept ﬁ  ghting,” Brantley said. “We 
knew things would go our way if we just keep 
calm and collected, and (they) did.” Florida overcomes 
terrible start to clinch bowl berth
 
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  Florida coach Will Muschamp (left) said Furman coach Bruce Fowler (right) 
deserved credit for confusing the Gators’ defense in Saturday’s 54-32 win.  
  The ﬁ  nal score may not show it, but Furman 
embarrassed Florida on Saturday.
  That’s right, mighty Furman of the FCS.
  Let that sink in.
  Sure, Florida escaped with a 54-32 win and be-
came bowl eligible for the 21st consecutive season, but no matter how you look at it, the Gators were embarrassed by an overmatched Paladins team.
  “They put their pants on just like we do, so we 
don’t look at it that way ,” linebacker Jon Bostic said. “They’re a good team.”
  Except Furman isn’t a good team. The Paladins 
were 6-4 entering Satur-day , with losses to Elon, 
Samford, Georgia South-
ern and Coastal Carolina. 
They didn’t even qual-
ify for the FCS playoffs.
  Yet the Paladins, who 
were paid $450,000 by Florida to schedule Sat-urday’s game, gave the 
Gators a run for their money after jumping out to 
15-0 and 22-7 leads in front of a half-ﬁ  lled Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
  Florida needed to rally from 15 down to beat 
a team it paid to be a guaranteed win; a tune-up game before a showdown with FSU.
  This is what Florida football has come to.  Coach Will Muschamp and Florida players 
blamed the slow start on Furman using a new scheme it hadn’t shown on ﬁ  lm: a double-slot      Overmatched 
Furman makes mockery of UF
Tom Green
twitter: @tomas_verde
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 13 SEE TOM, PAGE 13
  ERIN JESTER
 Alligator Writer
  One UF alumnus was so dis-
turbed by Gov. Rick Scott’s ideas 
about education, he started a pe-
tition to get the governor’s signa-
tures off university diplomas. 
  Eric Sanders, 42, received 
his Bachelor of Arts from UF in 
1997.   He said he’s long been dis-
gusted with Scott’s attacks on 
Florida’s public education sys-tem. 
His negative statements last 
month about liberal arts degrees were what sent Sanders over the edge, and he decided to take ac-tion. 
  Sanders, who lives and works 
in Gainesville, said having a lib-eral arts degree has not held him 
back in any way, and he finds it 
insulting that the governor 
would insinuate 
that it has.
  “For him to 
belittle a par-ticular major 
because he doesn’t feel it’s wor-thy is absurd,” Sanders said. “It’s 
ridiculous.” 
  To see how other people felt 
about it, on Nov. 8, Sanders start-
ed a petition on SignOn.org to re-
fuse Scott’s signature on Florida 
university diplomas. 
  “We the undersigned,” the 
website reads, “petition the gov-ernor of Florida, Rick Scott, from 
signing Florida university diplo-mas because of the governor’s 
repeated assaults on the Florida education system.”
  The petition website was cre-
ated by MoveOn.org Civic Ac-tion, an organization focused on education and advocacy on na-tional issues. 
SignOn allows individuals to 
set up online petitions and keep in contact with signers of their petitions. 
  As of Sunday, more than 300  Alumnus starts petition against Scott signing diplomas
Scott
It protests his ‘assaults on the education system’
SEE PETITION, PAGE 5News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 64 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Shayna Posses, Marissa Prieto,   
  Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie Teer
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
ASTRA Meeting
Today, 6:30 to 7:30 p.m.
Stuzin Hall Room 101
The volunteer and business organization ASTRA will be discussing scholarship op-
portunities, events, accom-
plishments of the semester 
and ways to continue help-ing the Gainesville com-munity. Visit the Facebook 
group Astra @ UF for more 
information. 
Talking Gators meet
Tuesday, 5:45 p.m.
Entomology Building Room 
1031
All are welcome to meet members and learn about 
Toastmasters, which pro-
vides a positive atmosphere 
to learn and practice pub-
lic speaking and leader -
ship skills. For details, go to 
http://talkinggators.freeto -
asthost.biz or call 352-870-
2267. Talking Gators is also 
on Facebook.
Gay Movie Night – Murder 
in Fashion: The Andrew Cunanan StoryNov. 25, 7:30 p.m.Pride Community Center, 
3131 NW 13th St.
Realizing that his looks 
are fading, aging boy-toy Andrew Cunanan begins a murderous journey from San Diego to Miami, killing ev-eryone that gets in his way – including fashion designer Gianni Versace. Free. $2 do-nation for snacks. More info at: http://gainesvillepride.org/gaymovienight.php
Heal the World’s Run for the 
World 5KDec. 4, 8:30 a.m. to 12 p.m.Flavet FieldHeal the World will have its 2nd Annual Run for the World 5K at Flavet Field. All proceeds will go to Rwanda 
Sustainable Families, a NGO 
microcredit loan program 
in Rwanda that is hosted in Gainesville, Fla. Participants can opt to wear costumes and 
walk instead of running. To 
register, please visit www.
healtheworlduf.com. Food and prizes will be available for all participants. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject 
line to jflechas@alligator.
org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model 
your submissions after above 
events. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper. bison head ended up on a deco-
rative rock in someone’s front 
yard. 
It belongs to somebody who 
lives in the home but forgot to 
tell his roommates about it.
The roommates called police 
about the head Sunday, and 
investigators quickly ruled out 
one obvious potential source: the beloved buffalo mascot named Ralphie at the Univer -
sity of Colorado.
Police spokeswoman Kim 
Kobel said Monday that the head came from a buffalo re-cently slaughtered from a ranch 
in Nebraska. The head’s owner 
told police he was drying out 
his souvenir so he could display it on a wall.
Kobel says the case is now 
closed.
Police didn’t release the 
names of the people involved.
—THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
nati OnaL
Teen rescued after 10 hours in chimney of Ga. home
NORCROSS, Ga. — Atlanta-
area authorities say a teenage burglary suspect was pulled from a chimney by firefighters after be-ing stuck there for more than 10 hours.
Police say the 17-year-old boy 
was taken into custody after being freed from the chimney around 1:30 p.m. Tuesday at a home in Norcross, northeast of Atlanta.
Gwinnett County police Cpl. 
Jake Smith tells The Atlanta Jour -
nal-Constitution the teen was charged with burglary and giving false information to a police offi-cer.
Smith said a neighbor heard 
someone yelling for help from her neighbor’s chimney.
Firefighters freed him by low-
ering a rope from the top of the chimney.
—THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CORReCtiOn
In Wednesday’s edition of the 
Alligator, an article about the Stu-dent Senate committee for elec-tions rules revisions incorrectly identified  Douglas Whitaker as a senator for the Students Party. Whitaker is a minority senator, but he ran under the Progress Party before the Students Party was formed.state
More cats than inmates at Fla. prison set to close
BELLE GLADE, Fla. — Au-
thorities say dozens of cats that sneaked into a South Florida prison will be found new homes before the facility closes next month.
As many as 80 cats have 
burrowed under fences and taken up residence at the state-run prison in Belle Glade. Pris-oners have been feeding the animals, even though rules prohibit that.
The 1,000-inmate prison 
closes Dec. 1. 
Officials tell The Palm 
Beach Post that as of Mon-day, there are more cats than prisoners at the facility. Just 69 inmates remain awaiting transfers.
Palm Beach County animal 
control officers are removing the cats so they won’t starve 
when the prison closes. 
They’re offering to waive 
adoption fees to find them 
new homes.
Some of the cats have been 
euthanized because they were 
feral and couldn’t be adopted.
—THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
nati OnaL
Ohio troopers say they find 
gift-wrapped pot
SPRINGFIELD, Ohio — 
Ohio troopers making a traf-fic stop say they found a pot present: a gift-wrapped pack-age containing 25 individu-ally wrapped packets of mari-juana.
The driver, from Washing-
ton state, has been charged with trafficking and posses-sion of marijuana and posses-sion of criminal tools — both felonies — and a misdemean-or count of driving under sus-pension.
The State Highway Patrol 
says the 28 pounds of pot dis-covered in the car’s trunk is valued at more than $63,000.
Thirty-five-year-old Robert 
Gomez of Bremerton, Wash., is being held in the Clark County jail. Jail officials didn’t know whether he had an at-torney, and none was indicat-ed in court records.
—THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
nati OnaL
Colorado bison head’s owner 
forgot to tell roommates
BOULDER, Colo.  — Police 
in Boulder, Colo., have solved 
the mystery of how a severed PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/54SUNNY
74/47RAIN
76/48PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/61SUNNY
84/61TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Nov. 22, 1963: President John F. Kennedy is 
assassinated in Texas. His assassination causes 
UF to cancel classes for the remainder of the day 
and the following Monday, the day of Kennedy’s 
funeral.
Nov. 20, 1967: Several FSU students vandal-
ize the UF campus by painting FSU slogans and burning the grass at the north end of Florida Field. Two men are charged with disorderly con-duct for spray-painting a building, and another is charged for driving a car through a barricade. 
Police did not say if the driver of the car was the  
person who burned “FSU” in the grass. 
Nov. 24, 1993: The FSU mascot, chant and 
chop offends Native American groups who say the actions are demeaning and stereotypical. Bob Eaglestaff, a member of the United Indians of All Tribes Foundation, said the mascot and chants are inaccurate. 
Nov. 24, 1997: The Gators upset an undefeated 
Seminoles team 32-29, scoring a touchdown with 1:50 left to play in the fourth quarter.
Nov. 23, 2005: More than 60 people wait in 
line at the Best Buy on Archer Road to purchase a newly-released Xbox 360. The release of the console, with a starting price of $299, caused 
long lines at other stores in Gainesville, includ-
ing Target.
— MINA RADMANPHILANTHROPY
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
Gators March for Babies 
raised more than $75,000 at 
Sunday’s 5K walk, about $10,000 more than last year’s event raised. 
The money will go to the 
March of Dimes, which raises money to combat premature births and fund research.
Participants began and 
ended the walk on Turling-ton Plaza. Spirit stations along the route provided food, drinks and gift bags. This is the walk’s eighth year at UF.
About 1,400 people reg-
istered to walk, said Gators March for Babies Public Re-lations Director Blaire Han-
non. She estimated about 
700 people participated.
She said the number of 
teams was similar to last year’s count of 200, but 
teams raised more money 
this year. UF’s College of Nursing 
was the top fundraiser with about $6,500 raised. This is the second year the College 
of Nursing has led in dona-
tions.
Top individual fundraiser 
and business senior Meagan 
Anderson, 20, estimates she 
will end with about $2,200 when fundraising ends 
Wednesday , which is what 
she raised last year. 
As of press time, she had 
raised $2,035. Anderson got involved 
with March of Dimes in high school as a member of Chain Reaction Youth Leadership 
Council.
She said touring the 
Shands at UF neonatal in-
tensive care unit made a big 
impact. 
“It just, like, hits home,” 
she said. “You see these little 
babies who can’t do anything 
laying there with more tubes 
in them than you would ever 
let be put in you.”Gators March for Babies raises $75,000
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Florida may soon be leaving No 
Child Left Behind by the wayside.
In a proposal sent to Washington, 
D.C., on Tuesday, the Florida Depart-
ment of Education, along with 10 other 
states, requested exemption from cer -
tain portions of the education law.
The move is primarily an effort to 
streamline schools’ accountability sys-
tems in Florida, said Michael Grego, the special adviser to the Florida education commissioner who is spearheading the state’s petition.
Currently, Florida schools are evalu-
ated based on state grading systems, the A-to-F grades schools receive based on FCAT performance, as well as national standards under the NCLB law. These two systems often differ.
Alachua County , for example, is 
considered an A district by state stan-dards. 
According to the 
federal government, however, there is only one school in the district that is mak-ing “adequate yearly 
progress”: Newberry Elementary School.
If Florida’s pro-
posal is approved 
in January , the state’s grading system would become the only standard by which schools’ progress is judged.
Schools would no longer be re-
quired to meet federal mandates, such as the requirement that all students be performing at grade level in reading 
and math by 2014.
W. Dan Boyd, superintendent of 
Alachua County Public Schools, said 
federal mandates like this are “unrea-sonable and unrealistic.”
Boyd said he thinks Florida’s evalua-
tion system is “comprehensive and rig-orous” enough to be the only method to gauge progress, citing recent changes to 
the FCAT that he said will increase the 
number of failing students statewide.
Grego said the petition is really just 
a temporary fix and that the ultimate goal is for Congress to revise the Ele-mentary and Secondary Education Act altogether. 
For the rest of this story, visit alliga -
tor.org.State seeks No Child Left Behind exemption
Boyd
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Chris Coleman stood on the 
sidelines of the Collegiate Men’s 
Rugby Florida Cup championship game Sunday with his swollen el-bow in a sling and his nose plugged 
to stop the bleeding, he strategized 
about how to take off his jersey. 
“This will be an ordeal,” said 
Coleman, a 21-year-old Spanish se-nior and member of the UF Rugby Football Club.
He was injured in the first half 
of the UF vs. University of Central Florida game. 
UF defeated UCF to win the 
Florida Cup for the third consecu-tive year.
The match was the culmination 
of an annual two-day tournament that helps gauge how well Florida 
teams are playing, said Chris Han-
nmann, club president and indus-trial engineering fifth-year.
Rugby is a combination of soc-
cer and football without pads. 
Players sprint up and down the 
100-by-70-meter pitch.
The top four Florida teams were 
invited to this weekend’s tourna-
ment. Florida Atlantic University 
and Florida International Univer -
sity joined UCF and UF for a total of five 80-minute games.
Before the championship game, 
the teams huddled separately on the pitch, shouting pep talks pep-pered with profanity.
About 100 people, team mem-
bers included, attended. At halftime, the Florida players 
gathered in the shade. 
The team was winning but hav-
ing trouble determining where the referee’s off-sides line was, Cole-man said. 
An off-sides violation occurs 
when two players are on the ground vying for the ball. If their team members approach those players too closely, they receive a penalty.
The UF team returned to the 
pitch renewed. 
With about 18 minutes left, biol-
ogy senior Josh Nicdao broke away from the UCF players and ran for 
about 80 meters with the ball. 
He leaped and rolled into the 
in-goal area, scoring in what the 
coaches called the best play of the game.
Florida won 31-13. Other UF 
scorers were Mike Breske, Marcus Ruecker, Paul Scott and Matt Naka-mura.
“We were already up in the first 
half, so I knew we would come out with some fire in the second half and bring it home,” said Nicdao, 22.
UF coaches Ken Simmons and 
Gary Byrne had hoped but not ex-pected to win. 
“We recovered from the penal-
ties and the mistakes, trusted each other and wound up winning and taking charge of the game,” Byrne said.
Simmons, who is also the Flor -
ida Rugby Union Collegiate Direc-tor, presented the UCF team with a runner-up plaque and the UF play-ers with the trophy. 
FAU beat FIU in the Plate Cham-
pionship, so the ranking results of the tournament were UF, UCF, FAU, FIU.
Though the UF players went to 
Mother’s Pub and Grill with the UCF team afterward, they do not have much time for celebration.
At practice Tuesday, they will 
switch from 15s, a type of rugby play in which there are 15 players on the field, to 7s, in which there are only seven people. 
This style of play can be more 
challenging because every player must cover a larger area, Hann-
mann said.
The UF team will play in the 
USA Rugby Men’s and Women’s 
College Sevens National Champi-onship in December.
“They’re prepared to lay it out 
for UF,” Byrne said.4, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
Elise Giordano / Alligator
Alex Britch, 3, looks at dresses made of recycled papers and bags at the 
student recycled-art competition, Trashformations, at the Florida Museum of Natural History on Friday.
David Carr / Alligator
The UF Rugby Football Club defeated UCF for the third consecutive year during the Collegiate Men’s 
Rugby Florida Cup on Sunday.EXTRACURRICULARUF rugby team takes Florida Cup for third consecutive year
MARY ANNE EADES
Alligator Contributing Writer
Renate Balsamo knows how to turn stress 
into art.
This semester, Balsamo, a 22-year-old art ed-
ucation senior, let her desk pile high with bills, 
graded homework and to-do lists. 
“Just looking at it made me sick and stressed 
out,” Balsamo said.
However, instead of throwing it all away, 
Balsamo decided to turn the papers into a piece of art.
“I wanted to transform something stressful 
into something meaningful,” Balsamo said. “As I folded each piece of paper, I felt the stress dis-
appearing.”
Balsamo’s piece, “Stress Dress,” received an 
honorable mention in this weekend’s Trashfor -
mations, a student recycled-art competition. 
It was one of 34 pieces entered in the 13th-
annual event.
Artwork shown in the Florida Museum of 
Natural History foyer on Friday night ranged 
from a plastic whale stuffed with packing pea-
nuts to a mythological creature made of tin 
cans. 
“The main purpose of this competition is for 
young folks to look at waste in a different way so they don’t mindlessly throw things away 
anymore,” said Patrick Irby, recycling program 
coordinator for Alachua County Public Works.
Each piece of art was made out of 70 percent 
or more recyclable materials.
There was one judge for each of the three 
categories: middle school, high school and col-lege.
Jeff Huber, a staff sculptor for the museum, 
judged the UF and Santa Fe College entries. 
“I’m more of a purist,” Jeff Huber said. “I’m 
looking for art that really uses all recycled mate-rials and lets them speak for themselves rather than using special effects to win.”
He gave graphic design junior Sorina Vaziri 
and her “Save Money, Live Better” Target plas-tic bag dress first place with a $400 prize. 
Vaziri was not available for comment.
Carol Woods, waste alternative specialist, 
helped organize the contest and the Satchel’s 
pizza reception.
Davis said nine college students entered the 
contest this year — more than last year — and  
hopes the trend continues next year.
“College students are a huge part of our 
community,” Davis said. “It’s important they know that even though they’re transient citi-zens, they’re still an important part of our waste stream and helping to prevent unneeded 
waste.”Students transform trash into art
“I’m looking for art that really uses all 
recycled materials and lets them speak 
for themselves rather than using special 
effects to win.”
Jeff Huber
sculptorThe 34 pieces 
were made out of 
recycled materials MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Matt Riva / Alligator
Rivalry Rage
Anthony Perrin, 21, prepares to smash a sledgehammer into a junk -
yard car painted with Florida State University regalia Friday after-
noon as part of a fundraiser for Relay for Life.
� THERE IS AN INCREASE IN CRIME AND 
CAR BURGLARIES WHEN STUDENTS GO OUT OF TOWN.
MINA RADMAN 
Alligator Writer
Students preparing to leave town this week 
should take extra precautions to keep their belong-
ings safe while away.
Angelina Valuri, spokeswoman for the 
Gainesville Police Department, said there is usually 
an increase in crime during holiday breaks because 
criminals are aware that students are out of town. 
There is also an increase in car burglaries, she 
said.
Gabrielle Shaw, a 19-year-old anthropology 
sophomore, is packing her electronics and locking the bedroom door in her off-campus apartment be-fore she heads home to South Florida.
Shaw, who declined to name her apartment 
complex, is worried about keeping her apartment safe.
“I don’t like the fact that we don’t have an alarm 
system,” Shaw said.
To protect belongings, Valuri recommends stu-
dents be extra cautious about locking doors and windows and leave a light on in their apartments to make it look like someone is home.
Cars left in town during the breaks should be 
parked in well-lit areas, and the windows should be tightly closed, she said.
Ivette Landrian, a 20-year-old microbiology and 
cell science junior, said she and her three room-mates aren’t too worried about keeping their apart-ment safe.
“I just assume it’s a good area, and we’ll keep the 
doors locked,” Landrian said.
The police department increases patrols in com-
mon student apartment complexes during the breaks, Valuri said.
Although there isn’t an increase in on-campus 
crime during breaks, the University Police Depart-
ment recommends students who live in residence 
halls take precautions, said Maj. Brad Barber, assis-tant director of UPD.
If bicycles and cars must be left on campus dur -
ing breaks, they should be parked in well-lit areas and securely locked, Barber said. 
The residence halls will be open for students to 
access during Thanksgiving break but will be closed during the semester break and only accessible with 
a staff escort, said Sharon Blansett, assistant to the 
associate vice president for student affairs at the UF Department of Housing and Residence Education.
There won’t be any other extra precautions tak-
en, and students are encouraged to take valuables with them, Blansett said.
Students who encounter any problems or fear 
something has been stolen should contact Univer -
sity Police immediately, Barber said.
Landrian said one thing she doesn’t do before 
leaving town is post her travel plans on Facebook.
“I’m always paranoid about that stuff,” she said. 
“Those who I care about know where to find me. I don’t need anyone else to know.”
Not posting travel information online could be 
the most important precaution students can take, Barber said.
“Now they know when you’re going and com-
ing back,” he said.Police: Students should take 
extra precautions for holidays 
people had put their names on Sanders’ 
petition. 
Some added their own comments.
“Rick Scott is a disgrace to Florida,” 
wrote Teresa Hans, of West Palm Beach. 
“His continued attacks on education 
leave such a poor taste in the mouths of Floridians. His name doesn’t deserve to be on the degree I earned from years of 
hard work.”
Esteban O’Sullivan, 23, will graduate 
from UF in May with a journalism de-
gree.
O’Sullivan said he signed the petition 
after a friend shared the link on Face-
book. “It really caught my eye, because I’ve 
always seen Rick Scott as an opponent to education, and here he is with his name on our degrees,” O’Sullivan said. Sanders doesn’t think the petition will 
actually keep Scott’s signature off any diplomas but he said it’s a good way for people to speak out and to raise aware-ness about the governor’s policies.
“I think this had really sparked a 
nerve,” he said. 
“People with higher education don’t 
respect him.”More than 300 people have signed the online petition so far
PETITION , from page 1 “His continued attacks                
on education leave such a poor 
taste in the mouths of Floridians. ”
Theresa Hans
West Palm Beach residentReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialMONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR127 TOTAL VOTES38% YES
62% NOFriday’s question: Did you sell your   
football ticket this week?Today’s question: Are you going home early for the 
Thanksgiving holiday?Dose of Reality
Commissioner      
deserves penalties
If you happen to sit on a panel that deals with discrimina-
tion policy, you probably also don’t want to be posting racial slurs online. 
It’s not rocket science. According to the St. Petersburg Times, Pinellas County 
Commissioner Norm Roche was using the alias “Reality” to post comments on online news articles. 
Roche has reportedly railed online against gays and the 
end of the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell military policy. But a lot of politicians supported the policy. Surely that’s not enough to fuss about, right? 
But Reality has posted some negative comments about 
other minority groups as well. 
Roche, according to the Times, “wrote that St. Petersburg 
was unique in Pinellas in its number of ‘thug shootings’ and ‘prostitutes beatings[sic]’ and ‘social service recipients.’”
Okay, but maybe this was taken out of context. However, 
Reality complained in 2010 of “race pimps,” saying “whitie [sic] isn’t to blame for your ignorance.” 
In another comment, he said, “When a white kid and a 
black kid sit in the same classroom and are given the same information, tasks and assignments — and the black kid fails — it has nothing whatsoever to do with the teacher, the 
system, the unions, the funding or the school. Start with a 70 
percent out-of-wedlock birthrate.’’
Those are pretty big nails in the coffin for Roche. After it was discovered that Roche posted these com-
ments, commission Chairwoman Susan Latvala decided it was best to remove Roche from the Affirmative Action Com-mittee. 
Why on Earth would Latvala remove him from this com-
mittee? 
It would have been one thing if Roche had simply op-
posed affirmative action policy for reasons of fairness. Some argue that affirmative action constitutes reverse discrimina-tion and ends up judging people on the color of their skin rather than individual merit. 
But this is not the argument that Roche makes. You do not 
want someone sitting on a panel deciding affirmative action policies who believes  there are inherent differences caused by our race. That’s a little scary.
Latvala did the right thing in removing Roche from the 
panel. However, while public officials should not be post-ing their viewpoints online using aliases from an ethical standpoint, it is interesting to note that the people of Pinel-las County might not have ever known Roche’s racist ten-dencies. 
The voters of Pinellas County will definitely have Roche’s 
strange behavior and remarks in mind when they go the polls in the next election.
Why the heck would Roche admit to posting these 
things? 
What he lacks in intelligence, common sense and human 
decency, he sure makes up for in self-confidence.
City ordinances too strict for development
We are often implored to look local after graduation 
to find employment. Gainesville has an entrepre-neurial culture and is trying to become a center 
for start-ups, especially in the tech industry. Unfortunately, the policies of the local government will be sure to stunt Gainesville’s growth for the foreseeable future. Gainesville is obsessed with collecting large tax revenues, regulating 
everything and taking profits from brick-and-mortar busi-
nesses to give to imaginary ones. 
Alachua County has the highest property tax rate in the 
state of Florida. For fiscal year 2010-11, Alachua County’s millage rate was 23.73 mills. The people who get hit the worst from this are students. While most of us don’t own any property, our landlords must pay the full property tax 
rate to the city and county governments, which gets passed 
straight on to us in the form of higher rent.
On top of gutting us with taxes, the city wants to test al-
ternative energy sources to see if they work or not, so it hits students with some of the highest utility bills in the state of 
Florida. I had a utility bill of about $500 one month just for 
my small rental house. That’s more than my family pays for an old, two-story wooden house in the Florida Panhandle. The new biofuel plant that’s being built by Gainesville Re-gional Utilities will add hundreds of dollars to the utility 
bills of Gainesville’s families each year. I cringe when GRU 
asks me to donate to a fund that helps poor people to keep the lights on. The “progressives” in local government are doing much more to keep them in the dark than I am when 
GRU charges above-market rates for electricity and water. 
Another black eye on Gainesville’s business climate is 
the city ordinances that seem to be lengthier than “War and 
Peace.” I remember when my church was trying to build on University Avenue. It seemed like there were more 
employees in the city construction code department than 
projects going on in the whole region. City employees man-dated what color the bricks would be, what kind of lettering would be on the building and what the walkway around the building would look like. These additional regula-tory burdens added hundreds of thousands of dollars to the proj-ect’s cost.
Now Gainesville is at it again. 
The city is attempting to set up Innovation Square in downtown Gainesville by providing start-
ups with access to below-market 
rent along with other support ser -
vices. This is wrong because the 
city is picking favorites, much like the federal government is. Gainesville is taxing successful businesses that create jobs and subsidizing embryonic entities that will have very high failure rates. While these start-ups are critical to our 
economy, it is the job of financial institutions and venture 
capitalists to pick winners, not local government officials. 
As a case in point about Gainesville’s ineptitude, a huge 
tree was leaning on our house and coming close to crushing it. We tried to get a tree company out to remove it, but they 
were stopped because Gainesville requires a permit to take 
out trees of a certain diameter, even if they are in danger of causing damage to life and property and are split down the middle. The city forces a hard close on the bars, doesn’t at-tempt to add parking anywhere and has some of the worst 
roads I’ve seen, perhaps because it  prioritizes the RTS bus 
service over everything else. These restrictions are sense-less.
Gainesville has enormous potential if it would stop get-
ting in its own way. It needs to lower property tax rates, stop trying to pick winners and losers and loosen up to al-low more personal freedom. 
If it does these things, it will attract economic growth 
and businesses that are currently scared away by the anti-
corporate mentality of Gainesville. Contrary to popular 
belief, not everything in life needs an ordinance and an ac-companying tax to go with it. 
Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at UF. 
His column appears on Mondays. 
Travis Hornsby
letters@alligator.org MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Letter to the Editor
The truth about the Florida Animal 
Rescue Act
There is some misinformation circulat-
ing about the Florida Animal Rescue Act. 
Despite claims, Senate Bill 818/House Bill 
597 does not force the transfer of “unwant-
ed strays” to nonprofit animal rescue or -
ganizations. 
The act simply requires that shel-
ters maintain a registry of animal rescue groups that are willing to accept animals that would otherwise be killed; provides eligibility criteria for rescue groups want-ing to be on the registry; provides criteria 
under which an animal control agency or 
animal shelter may reject an applicant for the registry or remove a participant from the registry; and provides reporting re-
quirements.
Nowhere in the bill does it state that res-
cue groups must take animals from a shel-
ter, nor does it state that shelters must give animals to any particular rescue group. 
It simply mandates collaboration. Instead of supporting common-sense 
legislation that will save lives, save tax-
payer money and mandate private-public 
partnerships, some “opponents” are mis-representing the bill’s contents and pur -
pose. 
Here is why.A statewide survey of rescue groups 
found that 63 percent of nonprofit rescue organizations have had at least one Florida state shelter refuse to work collaboratively 
with them, then turn around and kill the 
very animals the organizations were will-ing to save. 
The most common reason given was 
shelters not having a policy of working with rescue groups or being openly hostile to doing so. 
In addition, 45 percent of survey re-
spondents said they are afraid to complain about inhumane conditions or practices at Florida shelters, because if they did com-plain, they would not be allowed to rescue animals. 
And 81 percent of rescue groups that 
have tried to work with more than one shelter said different shelters have differ -
ent rescue access policies, creating ineffi-
ciency and limiting the number of animals 
who can and should be saved.  
Studies in other states show that when 
animal rescue laws are passed, lifesaving goes up. 
In just one county in California, rescue 
transfers increased 4,000 a year when it passed a rescue access law. 
In fact, an analysis of that law found 
that sending animals to nonprofit animal rescue organizations rather than killing them saved the City and County of San Francisco $480,480 in publicly funded ani-mal control costs.It makes no sense for taxpayers to 
spend money to kill animals when rescue groups are willing and able to save them at private expense. 
If passed, this legislation would set 
statewide standards for rescue group ac-cess and make it illegal for a shelter to kill an animal when a qualified nonprofit 
rescue organization is willing to save that 
animal. 
Sen. Michael Bennet and Rep. Joseph 
Abruzzo should be congratulated, and  they should be supported for introduc-
ing this important, lifesaving legislation 
based on the best practices from around the country. 
And if the animals could talk, that is ex-
actly what they would say, too!
Bill LeFeuvre, J.D.
Director of Program Development
No Kill Nation Inc.
Deerfield Beach
Apple’s iPod recently celebrated its 10th birthday, 
and after a decade of being on the market, the line is still going strong. The fact that it is by far the 
best-selling MP3 player of all time is proof that no other device has been able to match its design, intuitive con-trols and ease of use.
On Oct. 23, 2001, the late Steve Jobs declared, “With 
iPod, Apple has invented a whole new category of digital music player that lets you put your entire music collec-tion in your pocket and listen to it wherever you go. With iPod, listening to music will never be the same again.” 
As was often the case, Jobs was more correct than any-
body could have imagined.
The iPod was the first of numerous “iDevices” Apple 
has launched during the past few years. 
Every iPod-influenced gadget Apple has created has 
received rave reviews and critical acclaim. 
The impact of the device can easily be seen in the de-
sign of the iPhone, iPad and the multiple types of iPods currently on the market.
The massive success of the iPod changed the fate of 
Apple. Before its introduction, Apple 
was known for the Mac line of com-puters. 
Now, it’s questionable whether 
the Mac or the iPod has better brand 
recognition. 
The Macintosh operating system has been growing in 
popularity in recent years, and it’s probable that the in-creasing market shares are thanks to the immense success of the iPod. 
As Macworld.com puts it, the iPod has a “halo ef-
fect” on the Macintosh operating system and other Apple 
products, wherein people purchase other Apple products 
because they have had such a positive experience with the iPod.
One of the iPod’s greatest effects was that it forced 
people to become comfortable with digital music. 
In the early 2000s, before iPods and other electronic 
music devices became widespread, most people pur -
chased whole albums on CD at local electronics stores. ITunes, which was the first mainstream online music 
store, owes its early success to its close integration with the iPod. 
To this day, the only supported way to sync music, 
photos, videos, apps, podcasts and other content to an 
iDevice is by using iTunes. 
The application also changed the dynamics of how 
music is bought and sold by allowing consumers to pur -
chase just the songs they want instead of entire albums.
The iPod has even created entirely new industries. The mobile app was born from the introduction of the 
iPhone and iPod touch. 
The thousands of individuals and companies who 
now make a living from developing and selling apps in the Apple App Store owe a debt of gratitude to Steve Jobs and the iPod team.
Whether the stand-alone iPod has a future now that 
media-playing functionality is being built into other Ap-ple gadgets like the iPhone and iPad is debatable. 
Even if Apple no longer sells it after another decade, 
the effects of the device on the music and consumer elec-
tronic industries will always be remembered.
David Rabinowitz is a columnist for the Cavalier Daily at 
the University of Virginia. iPod put Mac on the map, made people sync to digital music ageUWire
David         
Rabinowitz
UWirestudent life
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
For Samantha Scille, off-cam-
pus has a whole other meaning.
Scille, a 20-year-old pre-occupa-
tional therapy junior, lives in Ocala 
and commutes to UF. For students 
like Scille, commuting can present 
a special set of problems.
For Patty Roesch, a 22-year-old 
journalism junior, the hour drive to Chiefland isn’t the worst part. It’s the parking.
Brock Seng, a 19-year-old jour -
nalism sophomore, trained himself to get through a 14-hour day with-
out eating. There’s just no time to 
wait in long lines for expensive meals.
Each student has a routine that 
helps them weather the headache of asphalt and axles.
Four days a week, Scille wakes 
up at 5:30 a.m., eats a bowl of Va-nilla Bunches of Oats, hops in her 
car and treks north on U.S. High-
way 441 toward Gainesville.
She cranks up the radio to The 
JOY FM or puts in a CD from her church choir and belts songs to stay awake. She pulls into Gainesville around 8 a.m.
First class: statistics 2.Roesch is up by 7 a.m. and 
out the door by 7:50. She streams Adele, Tim McGraw and Cream on Pandora. A microwave-sized cooler full of cheese, crackers and other snacks sits in her passenger seat.
Seng rises at 7 a.m., cooks a 
hearty breakfast of eggs, bacon and hash browns and leaves by 
9:10 a.m.
He likes to have Mayday Parade 
and other punk bands thumping 
through the speakers.
Once the students get to cam-
pus, all three drive to the Park-
and-Ride lot across the street from 
Southwest Recreation Center and next to the Samuel P . Harn Mu-seum of Art.
As undergraduate commut-
ers, their only parking option on campus is to buy a Park-and- Ride 
parking pass. 
Ron Fuller, associate director 
of Transportation and Parking 
Services at UF, said the Park-and-Ride lot almost always has open spaces — particularly the parking garage.
“That garage is vastly underuti-
lized,” Fuller said. “There’s plenty 
of parking out there.”
From the lot, they catch a bus 
to their classes on the east side of 
campus.
Fuller said his department pays 
for the nine RTS campus routes. 
He said the department makes a 
concerted effort to make sure stu-dents don’t have to wait long for a bus from the Park-and-Ride lot. He said there’s usually a bus at the lot within seven to 10 minutes.
Seng said the trip from the 
parking lot to his 10:40 a.m. Intro-duction to Astronomy class isn’t too difficult.
He drives directly to the third 
level of the Park-and-Ride parking garage, waits about five minutes for a bus and reads a book or notes off his iPad during the ride.
He said it’s fair that he can’t get 
a parking pass for a better space because he is technically an off-
campus student.
“We’re not paying the univer -
sity to live there,” he said.
Between classes, Scille works 
on homework for Applied Human 
Development 1 or Introduction to U.S. Healthcare System.
If it’s after 5 p.m., Roesch moves her car so she won’t have to worry 
when certain buses stop running.
Seng works on his novel about 
a college student’s four-year expe-
rience.
They get through it because 
they have to. Living in Gainesville either isn’t an option or isn’t ap-pealing, so they work out the com-mute the best they can.
“I don’t really have a choice,” 
Scille said.
She has family members 
in Ocala that help care for her 18-month-old daughter, Shondrea. She has a job at a ticket office for a 
performance hall in On Top of The 
World Communities, an Ocala ac-tive-adult living community, that she enjoys and that fits with her class schedule. Roesch’s dad owns a home in 
Chiefland, so she lives there for free. Her only bills are electric, cable and gas for her car and mo-torcycles. 
The gas is about $250 a month, 
but she said the total is still cheap-er than an apartment with full utilities.
Seng’s mom lives in Ocala, so 
he stays with her.
He lived in an off-campus apart-
ment during the spring semester. 
He said the experience isn’t much 
different now.
“I think it’s almost better this 
way,” he said. “I didn’t like living in Gainesville, actually. It was too expensive.”
The university doesn’t keep 
definitive records on the number of commuter students at UF. The main way to determine whether a student lives outside Gainesville — his or her address — may not 
accurately determine where the 
student lives. The student may have a parent’s address on file 
rather than his or her Gainesville 
address, which would change the statistics, said Steve Orlando, UF spokesman.
Scille said she knows four or 
five people in her pre-occupa-tional therapy program who com-mute. They compare driving times — all of them from 30 minutes to 
an hour — and how early each 
of them have to wake up. She’s among the earliest.
The experience at UF differs 
from person to person.
Seng said he’s content with his 
situation.
Roesch said she would like to 
see the university have a special parking lot for undergraduate commuter students.
Scille said she’s had to do al-
most everything in life for herself, so she doesn’t worry about the university doing anything for her.
“The university doesn’t per -
sonally do anything for me other than give me a place to learn,” she said. Commuting undergraduates deal with long days, distances8, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
Aundre larrow / Alligator s taff
Brock Seng, a 19-year-old journalism sophomore, commutes to campus for class from his mom’s house 
in Ocala.
In the spirit of giving, some city food banks, soup kitchens and schools are asking for a little help to get other Gainesville residents through the holidays. Season For Giving
St. Francis House:
Needs: toilet paper, toothbrushes, turkeys, canned vegetables and canned yams.
Donations can be dropped off at 413 S. Main St., and money donations can be 
mailed to P .O. Box 12491 Gainesville, Fla. 32604. Checks should be made out to the St. Francis House.
The Salvation Army:
Needs: canned meats, diapers, soap, men’s razors, shampoo, conditioner, canned 
fruit and peanut butter.
Food donations can be dropped off at 639 E. University Ave. Other donations 
can be dropped of at 55 NW 23rd Ave. Money donations can be mailed to P.O. 
Box 14403 Gainesville, Fla. 32604.Alachua County Schools:
The Alachua County School Board is holding a food drive to help their students’ families. Some families 
rely on their school’s lunch program to feed their children, so the school board gives them a kit with two 
weeks’ worth of food to help them have a happy holiday while school is out of session.
Needs: canned fruit, canned vegetables, instant or boxed milk, rice, boxed macaroni and cheese, Hamburger 
Helper, pasta, pasta sauce, peanut butter, jelly, grits or oatmeal, Spaghetti-O’s, instant potatoes, canned sweet potatoes, cranberry sauce, stuffing mix, jars of gravy, cake mix, frosting, soup and non-refrigerated ham.
Food can be dropped off at Lawton Chiles Elementary School, Myra Terwilliger Elementary School, 
Abraham Lincoln Middle School and Westwood Middle School. Donations can also be dropped off at the School Board headquarters at the Kirby Smith Building, 620 E. University Ave. Money donations can be 
mailed to 1725 SE First Ave. Gainesville, Fla. 32641. Checks should be made out to the Alachua County 
Public Schools Foundation.
Goodwill:
Needs: toys and furniture, including tables, chairs 
and couches. The organization takes used items and 
sells them to families in need for a low price. Toys are es-pecially in need. Donations can be dropped off at 3520 SW 34th St.Bread of the Mighty Food Bank:
Needs: nonperishable foods, such as canned fruits, peas or mashed pota-
toes. The organization also needs donations toward purchasing turkeys. 
Food donations can be dropped off at 325 NW 10th Ave. from 8 a.m. to 4 
p.m. Monday through Friday. Checks should be made to the Food Bank. The 
organization will be closed this Thursday and Friday for the holiday.Catholic Charities Gainesville Food Pantry:
Needs: canned goods, instant mashed potatoes, rice, 
beans and green beans. The organization needs turkeys 
and hams for the holidays.
Donations can be dropped off at 320 SE 43rd St. from 
8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday to Friday.
Maegan dennis, Meredith Rutland and Mina Radman / Alligator s taffBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-21/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600
$99 Move In Special!
352-372-7555
FrederickGardens.com
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-7-11-74-2A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.
Great pools • Fitness • Tennis
Call for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’s
BivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 
4352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.
●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, 
green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.
postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.
12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000
●4/2 in NW $1300.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1480/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    12-7-11-34-2
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
12-7-11-33-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2Close to UF, $555/month plus $300 sec dep. 
2BR with 2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/
paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 
1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-
4088 or 352/514-7098    12-7-11-26-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling 
fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we 
have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, 
last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550
12-7-11-19-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings 
for Vets who qualify under Section 8 
Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun -
dry 372-3783    12-7-11-18-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. 
Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/
mo. Call 278-8381    12-7-11-15-2
4br,2ba home off SW 13th St.,Kirkwood 
$1,250 rent. First,last and deposit. Looking 
for professional Students or single family. 
willing to rent long term. Contact-John at 
352-278-4124. between 9am-5pm, Mon.-Fri.    
11-21-11-4-2
1BR/1BA-Avail Now-NO Sec Deposit
$625/mo Close to Archer Rd, UF/Shands
816sqft, $35/App Fee: Tennis Courts, 
Laundry & Gym: Cats & Small Dogs Ok
Contact Julie via email: jmf1001@gmail.com    
11-22-11-5-2
Newly renovated very clean, spacious prop-
erty near everything in NW area available for 
lease. Laundry room, lots of storage space, 
central H/Ac, fireplace, much more. $890/
mo. Call 352-375-6754 or 352-495-6250   
1-9-11-15-2
Get an entire 2/2 apt for only $820/mo avail -
able NOW! Clean, spacious, comfortable 
inside. Gated community. Access to tanning beds, 24 hr gym, basketball & tennis courts & more. Furnishing available 954-625-5043   12-7-13-2
QUIET ngbd close to campus: 2br/2b,
w/d, tile floors, built in storage,
bookcases & desk, lge yard. $800/m.
Call 352-335-7139 for more details.
1-9-11-13-2Cabana Beach Sublease 2/2
Available now to Aug 2012,
$509/mo each, Furnished W/Dcall  352-552-1757    11-23-11-14-3
Contact 305-502-6261
2 bedrooms, 2 baths. $515/mo all inclusive 
and fully furnished. Pet friendly. Available 
from spring to summer. Apt in Windsor Park.   
12-2-10-3
DISTRICT ON 62ND
1BR/1BA available now in 3BR/3BA through 
June 2012. $412/mo, furnished, W/D incl. Call 352-514-2942    11-28-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
12-7-74-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available 
December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    11-23-11-18-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-9-11-14-4
Walk to UF! 2/1 SFD Private room, dual 
closets, share all living room, kitchen & laun -
dry privileges. No deposit required $300.00 month first/last. 378-1775    11-28-11-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 
(352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 
1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-7
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
NEED EXTRA CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS? 
WE BUY SMARTPHONES, TABLETS, 
IPODS ,GAMING SYSTEMS*, LAPTOPS, 
&MORE. 6450 SW ARCHER RD BY BEEF 
'O' BRADY'S. TECHMODO 352-872-5881
11-29-7-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
12-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory Refurbished
Check Us Out Before You Buy!!
Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL
352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com
4-25-11-99-10
Art is raining from the sky:zalooza.com
11-21-2-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-
74-11
12-7-11-74-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifiedsCARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-
74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS
CASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $999
94 FORD TAURUS $999
96 HONDA ACCORD $1499
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $1999
01 DODGE NEON $1999
00 OLDS ALERO $2500
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $12999
04 HONDA ODYSSEY $9999
05 SUZUKI XLT $9999
352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
12-5-11-77-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by The Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
12, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
 PROOFREADER
ACT/SAT ADMINISTRATOR
LINUX ADMINISTRATOR
GRAPHICS DESIGNER
X-PLANE DEVELOPER
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
TECH SUPPORT
Please apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment.      12-7-11-
16-14
DSG Associates, Inc. is looking for
individuals to participate in a
paid online research study. Sign up for free 
atwww.dsgai.com orcall 800-462-8765 today!    11-21-5-14
Sanford Office looking for General Dentist 
to work with a great team. Part-Time(one-two days a week)Position available as soon as possible. fax Resume to (407) 324-9229    1-10-11-17-14
Admin asst for local accountant
Organized, reliable,friendly Duties: phone, mail, bankingfiling. Transportation a must10hrs/wk 7.35/hr possible raiseSend resume: info@fratmgmt.com   11-21-11-5-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7064    1-9-11-16-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230   12-1-11-10-14
Web developers and marketing interns 
wanted by established online retailer. Please 
send your cover letter, resume and/or portfo-
lio of works to robinw@threadpit.com or call 
352-371-6536 for more information.    11-23-
11-5-14Seeking Professional Leasing All Stars !
Ideal candidates enjoy working with people, 
have excellent communication skills, profes-
sional appearance and have the ability to 
close a deal. Leasing experience is preferred 
but not required. Some evening and week-
end hours required. Schedules are flexible. 
This is a PT position. Please fax resumes to: 
352-379-8071    11-28-5-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between 
the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-
tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking 
Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or
smokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   
1-9-11-12-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
12-7-78-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
 Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and 
Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-
sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi -
vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One 
at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new 
things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol -
ish surfdom from above than to wait until 
the surfs begin to liberate themselves from 
below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to 
change what you thought a store could be.    11-22-30-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad 
in the classifieds to find trip arrangements 
or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST!! 2011 NCAA Women's Tennis 
Championship ring. searched everywhere! Men's style with large blue F surrounded by crystals. Stored in small black box - last seen near Looking Glass apartments. Reward! lauramather@comcast.net    11-28-11-7-25Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
White, male, mid-50's, brown hair, blue eyes, 
5'9", good-looking. ex-biker, vet. Fighting 
cancer. New here. Scared, lonely. Need 
nice lady to enjoy some time, fun and maybe 
more. 352-328-2096   11-23-11-5-19
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
12-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
option offense.
Furman marched right down the 
field on its first drive thanks to that 
offense, and Florida adjusted. But it didn’t matter. The Paladins still man-
aged to move the ball consistently 
throughout the game.
They gained 446 yards on the after -
noon, just seven fewer than the Gators did. Furman averaged 6.19 yards per snap against Florida, barely less than the 6.21 yards per play it averaged against FCS opponents and 1.54 yards more than opponents have averaged 
against UF this year.
More than half of Furman’s yards 
came on the ground — the 233 it ac-
crued is the second-highest total Flor -
ida has surrendered this season — in-cluding a 133-yard day from Jerodis Williams, who at times was made to look like Alabama’s Trent Richard-son.
Muschamp was quick to point out 
that if you take away Williams’ 77-yard touchdown run, Furman only ran for 156 yards. 
“You can’t ever take one off the 
board, but that’s what blows the yard-age up pretty high,” Muschamp said.
That 156-yard total is still more 
than 23 yards above what teams aver -
aged against UF entering Saturday . 
Yardage aside, the Paladins looked 
like a team that wasn’t scared of the once-mighty Gators. They didn’t back down. They came out looking to win, not to roll over.
As Bostic said afterward, Furman 
came out and did what it wanted to do. 
For a substantial portion of the 
game, Furman looked like the better team and Florida looked like it would do the unthinkable: pay $450,000 to lose to an FCS team. At home. In front of a half-filled stadium.
UF eventually pulled away , thanks 
to De’Ante Saunders’ pick-six and a suspect Furman secondary , and the Gators avoided complete humiliation.
But they didn’t avoid embarrass-
ment, because that’s what Saturday 
was, regardless of what the score-
board may say.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alliga-
tor.org.After Caleb Sturgis missed a 51-yard field 
goal on Florida’s opening drive, Furman 
pounded the ball through the Gators’ de-
fense, gaining 67 yards on six straight run-
ning plays, including a 1-yard touchdown run by Jerodis Williams.
Florida’s hole grew from there. Center 
Jonotthan Harrison snapped the ball well 
over Brantley’s head on the first play of the 
next drive, leading to a safety. 
The Paladins dominated the Gators’ de-
fense again on the following drive, this time 
ending with a 31-yard touchdown from 
Chris Forcier to David Hendrix on a play-action pass.  
“Furman came out, they played well in 
the first half,” linebacker Jon Bostic said. “They really did. They came out, and they did what they wanted to do.”
Brantley answered with a 14-yard touch-
down pass to Jordan Reed, but Furman’s of-fense continued to plug away, this time with a trick play. After catching a lateral in the flat, Colin Anderson pulled up and chucked 
a deep ball to Sederrik Cunningham for a 
47-yard touchdown. 
Through three drives, the Paladins gained 
194 yards on 16 plays and held a 22-7 lead.
“I got frustrated, coming on the sidelines 
saying, ‘Listen, it’s Furman,’” defensive tackle Sharrif Floyd said. “No disrespect, but it’s Furman. This is not how we’re sup-posed to come out.”
But Florida’s talent proved to be too 
much in the long run. The Gators strung 
together three straight scoring drives before 
halftime, including two in which Brantley tossed touchdowns.
Florida took a 27-22 lead into the half and 
held on for the rest of the game, though it wasn’t fully in hand until De’Ante Saun-ders returned an interception 25 yards for a touchdown. 
Outside of the final score, though, Sat-
urday hardly felt like a time for celebration. The Gators defense once again failed to stop the run, allowing 233 yards on the ground, including a 77-yard touchdown by Williams 
in the third quarter. Florida has allowed an 
average of 190.3 rushing yards its last seven games.When a reporter suggested the Gators 
were dominated up front by the Paladins’ 
line (which averages 275.8 pounds), Floyd 
took offense, saying Furman’s linemen only knew how to cut block.
“If getting cut every play is controlling 
the line of scrimmage, then, hey, they did it,” Floyd said. “If you can cut somebody every play and say, ‘We dominated,’ then too-doo. That’s not dominating to me. Dominating to me is pushed back, knocked back, pancakes 
— that’s dominating. But cutting somebody 
and having them land on top of you is not dominating the front.”Regardless of how the Paladins ran the 
ball, they were successful, and the Gators 
will face a much steeper test next week. Flor -
ida has a chance to salvage this season with 
a win against Florida State, but expectations are low after Saturday’s performance.
Win or lose next week, though, the Gators 
are bowl bound. Who would have thought that would ever be in doubt?
“At Florida, you really don’t think that 
sometimes, ‘Hey, we might not be bowl eli-
gible,’ defensive tackle Omar Hunter said. 
“Definitely gets that monkey off our back.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
Furman rushes for 233 yards on Florida defense
Alligator StaffTOM , from page 1
fOOTbAll , from page 1MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Rivalry Losing Its Luster?
Are you at all excited for Saturday’s clash with in-state rival 
Florida State? Vote online at alligatorSports.org. Florida’s men cross country team participates in the NCAA Championship race today in Terre Haute, Ind.See story at alligatorSports.org.
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Sophomore wide receiver Andre Debose caught touchdowns of 80 and 64 yards as Florida rallied to 
beat Furman on Saturday. Debose finished with three catches for 151 yards and two touchdowns.
GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
When things looked bleak for 
Florida, sophomore wide receiver 
Andre Debose did what he does best. 
UF trailed Furman 22-14 with 
less than six minutes to play in the first half when he took off on a fly route down the left sideline. 
After redshirt senior quarter -
back John Brantley aired it out for him, Debose undercut his defender, secured the catch at the Furman 40-yard line and then angled toward the right corner of the end zone, 
jogging in with his left arm out-
stretched in celebration of UF’s deficit being cut to two.  
“That was a huge play,” coach 
Will Muschamp said. “A huge mo-mentum swing in the game. I don’t think there’s any question about that.”
Despite being fifth on the team 
with 15 catches, Debose leads the Gators with 423 receiving yards and four touchdowns. 
His 28.2 yards per catch would 
rank second nationally if he met the minimum number of grabs neces-sary to qualify, which ESPN lists at 1.875 per game. 
Only Georgia Tech’s Stephen Hill, who averages 30.7 yards per catch on his 23 receptions, has a better mark. 
Debose also hauled in a 64-yard 
touchdown late in the third quarter that extended UF’s lead to 12. 
Brantley used play action to stall 
the defense and then lobbed it deep to Debose, who leaped to bring in the catch over the outstretched arms of Furman safety Derrick Murray. 
“The DB was a little bit too close 
and I took full advantage of it and 
beat him with speed,” Debose said. “I was very 
surprised the way they played me the second time, usually teams put a safety on top to try to prevent the 
deep ball from us and they really 
didn’t.”
The flashes of brilliance from 
Debose, who came to UF with a five-star rating according to Rivals.com, are not surprising.
To this point in his career, con-
sistency is what has held Debose back. He has finished without a 
catch in three games this season, 
and in two others he had just one 
reception for 14 yards. Debose explodes for 
career day in UF win
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
In his first three starts this season, 
the only thing slowing down junior Erik 
Murphy’s shot has been his inability to stay on the court.
While Murphy , a 6-foot-10 forward, 
is shooting 54.5 percent from three — the second-highest mark on the team — a string of fouls early in games have caused him to play the fewest minutes among UF’s starting five.
His average of 20.7 minutes is 5.3 less 
per game than the closest starter, senior point guard Erving Walker.
Coupled with sophomore Will Yeg-
uete missing time with a concussion, Murphy’s limited playing time thinned UF’s frontcourt against UNF to the point that coach Billy Donovan sent out an un-practiced four-guard set in the first half.
As the No. 7 Gators (2-1) prepare for 
a neutral-site game tonight at 7 against Wright State (2-1) in Tampa, Murphy is looking to end his streak of two consecu-
tive games with two first-half fouls.
“It’s been a couple games, in the Ohio 
State game I had to give up that foul to 
not give up a wide-open layup,” Mur -
phy said. “He missed both free throws, so in my mind, it was a good foul, and I feel like I had to do that.”Murphy trying to stay on floor 
when UF plays Wright State� SENIOR THREW FOR MORE THAN 
300 YARDS, FOUR TOUCHDOWNS.
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
John Brantley had a performance worth 
celebrating Saturday.  
The fifth-year senior quarterback com-
pleted 16 of 28 passes for 329 yards and four 
touchdowns, notching a career day in the 
Gators’ win against Furman in The Swamp. 
Brantley, who has battled through arm and 
ankle injuries this season, had career highs in 
both yards and scores, with his previous bests being three touchdowns against FIU in 2009 and 248 yards against Kentucky in 2010. 
Brantley connected on touchdowns of 80 
yards and 64 yards, both of which were to sophomore receiver Andre Debose. 
“That’s what we’ve needed” coach Will 
Muschamp said of Brantley’s day. “We’ve needed to be able to hit some chunk plays to be able to get some momentum and be able the get the defense off of us to help out in oth-er areas. Certainly, John being able to do that was big for us.”
Offensive line issues: With senior Dan Wenger out of Saturday’s game with an ankle injury, sophomore Jonotthan Harrison re-sumed his duties at center. 
But the snap errors that led to him being 
replaced at the position two games ago re-appeared in the first quarter when Harrison launched a snap over Brantley’s head and out of the back of the end zone for a safety. De-spite the mistake, Muschamp said he felt Har -
rison gave the Gators the best chance to win and stayed with him for the rest of the game. 
Embattled left tackle 
Xavier Nixon got “banged up a little bit,” according to Muschamp, and was 
replaced by Kyle Koehne. Koehne started the game at left guard and little-used 
senior James Wilson saw 
time at left guard for the first time this season. 
“Both of those guys responded very well in 
the game and (I’m) very proud of those guys and how they responded,” Muschamp said.
Historic Sturgis: Caleb Sturgis missed two 
field goals on Saturday, but the two he made put him into Florida’s record books. 
Sturgis connected on a 43-yard field goal Brantley sets personal bests
Brantley
“He missed both free throws, 
so in my mind, it was a good 
foul, and I feel like I had to do 
that.”
Erik Murphy
UF forwardUF Fo otball
See deBoSe, p Age 15
See noteS, p Age 15See HoopS, p Age 15
Poll Results
Which of the projected bowl 
games do you prefer for the Gators?80% g AtoR
15% MUSIC CIt Y
5% CoMp ASS 
87 total votes  After starting against Ohio State 
on a 3-of-3 shooting tear from three, 
Murphy was subbed out with 5:04 remaining in the ﬁ  rst half follow-ing his second foul. With Florida’s 
leading scorer out of the game, OSU 
closed the half on a 10-5 run and claimed its ﬁ  rst lead of the night.
  Two days later against UNF, 
Murphy again had to head to the bench for the ﬁ  nal 12:44 of the ﬁ  rst half after receiving what he referred to as a “questionable” call on a charge. Though the Gators held a 39-
22 advantage against the Ospreys at 
halftime, they managed to make just 26.7 percent of their 15 threes.
  “They got a little frustrated,” 
Donovan said. “It was more Will be-ing out, Murphy and (Cody) Larson in foul trouble, and now we’re play-ing four guards.”
  Murphy’s ability to step back 
to the 3-point line has caused mis-matches when other teams’ big men have to chase him to the perimeter.
  Though he had limited opportu-
nities to shoot threes last season off the bench, Murphy made a team-high 40 percent of his 30 attempts.
  “I’m doing it more, but I shot 
last year whenever I could,” he said. “Just in extended minutes this year, getting more shots, people might be a little bit surprised, but, obviously, it’s out now.”
  While Donovan expects to go 
back to a more conventional lineup if Yeguete is able to play today against the Raiders, there’s still a chance that Murphy’s court time could be cut 
into if they decide to press heavily.
  “Especially when teams bring 
three or four people in the back-
court,” Donovan said, “because now you’re having to bring Erik all the way up the ﬂ  oor.”
  Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.   “The thing I always chal-
lenge him on and always talk 
to him about is mental intensi-ty,” Muschamp said. “It’s not just a one-day thing, do it to-
day and then not. That’s where 
Andre’s biggest challenge is right now. It’s an everyday thing to go out, and play hard, and concentrate and focus on being a really good player. Be-cause he’s extremely talented, but if you don’t bring the other part, it doesn’t always happen 
for you.”
  Debose has a long way to 
go to live up to his billing, as 
he entered the collegiate ranks expected to ﬁ  ll the shoes of Percy Harvin. 
  As a freshman he showed 
glimpses of the agility and breakaway speed that made him such a highly touted re-cruit, returning a pair of kick-offs for touchdowns and aver-aging 28 yards per return. 
  But his role on offense was 
limited, as he made just 10 catches for 96 yards. 
  This season, Debose has 
become a bigger part of UF’s attack, starting two of the last three games and earning a to-tal of 23 targets on the year. 
  “There’s still things I have 
to work on, but my consistency is getting better,” Debose said. 
  Contact Greg Luca at gluca@
alligator.org.  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
Murphy creates mismatches on wing
HOOPS , from page 14DEBOSE , from page 14Debose needs consistency
Sturgis leading NCAA
in the third quarter for his 44th 
career make. He is now second all-time in Gators history, trailing only Jeff Chandler (67). Later, his 55-yard make in the fourth quar-
ter set a UF record for most ﬁ  eld 
goals of 50 yards or longer in a season. 
  Sturgis 
is tied for ﬁ  rst in the nation with 
three ﬁ  eld goals of longer than 50 yards this season and has helped Florida to an NCAA-leading 23 ﬁ  eld goals this season. 
  Etc.: Josh Shaw missed Satur-
day’s game against Furman for personal reasons. Shaw took an early morning ﬂ  ight to California to spend time with his grandfa-ther, who is sick. Muschamp said 
he “needed to be with his family 
and that was the most important thing this week, not this football game.”
Freshman right tackle Chaz 
Green and junior linebacker Ler-entee McCray did not play again this week, the third straight game the Gators have been without Mc-
Cray at outside linebacker.
Muschamp said his shoulder 
injury is not responding to treat-
ment but is “  hoping to get him back next week.” 
“I know I’ve told you that ev-
ery week and I know y’all think I’m lying to you, but we’re work-ing on it,” he said. 
  Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@
alligator.org. NOTES , from page 14
 David Carr / Alligator
  When he’s on the ﬂ  oor, Florida forward Erik Murphy is a threat from 
outside for the Gators. Murphy, a junior, made 40 percent on 30 at-tempts from three last season, which was a team-high mark. UF Fo otballJOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
What was supposed to be a suc-
cessful season for the Gators turned 
into a repetitive nightmare.
Florida was ranked No. 8 in the 
preseason, but the quality of the 
team on paper did not translate to 
the pitch. The squad constantly dug itself into holes, and it resulted in one of the worst seasons in the pro-gram’s 17-year history.
The disappointing campaign 
came to an end Friday night when No. 2 seed Florida (17-8) fell, 3-2, to UCF (13-4-5) at Pressly Stadium. 
It was the third straight season UF 
failed to make it out of the second round of the NCAA tournament.
Florida allowed another early 
goal, this time in the sixth minute. The Gators were able to tie it at 1 in the 24th minute before falling behind UCF for good in the 34th minute.
“We fought and we also played 
smart at the same time,” coach Becky Burleigh said. “That’s a big credit to the maturity of our team as we’ve progressed through the season.”
One area UF did not progress in 
through the year was the early goal. 
UCF’s first goal of the game was 
the sixth one UF allowed in the sixth minute or earlier this season. 
Early deficits were also the big-
gest reason for Florida’s woes against conference opponents, as it fell behind 1-0 in the first half in sev-en of 11 Southeastern Conference regular-season games. The Gators’ four SEC losses set a team record. 
Florida underwhelmed during 
the second half of the season as it lost three of its last four confer -
ence matches. UF went more than a month without scoring three goals in a game before its 3-0 opening-round win against Florida Gulf Coast in the NCAA tournament. 
The Gators’ eight regular-season 
losses were their most since 2002, but despite the struggles, Burleigh still found satisfaction in coaching.
“It was ob-
viously a very disappointing way for us to finish,” Bur -
leigh said. “But in saying that, I 
told our team at the end that I’ve re-
ally enjoyed working with this team since the day we started in August until now.”
One of the few bright spots 
down the stretch for Florida was senior midfielder Tahnai Annis, who scored five goals in her last five games, including two multi-goal ef-
forts. She was upset to play her last 
game as a Gator but is confident the team will be just fine without her.
“They’re going to come back and 
be even stronger next year,” she said.16, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Coach Becky Burleigh walks off the field after losing to UCF 3-2 on Friday. The loss ended the Gators’ 
season in the second round of the NCAA tournament for the third year in a row. 
Florida finishes disappointing season with 3-2 loss to UCF
MEGAN WALSH
Alligator Writer
 
In the first set of Florida’s senior-day 
match against Auburn, the Tigers seemed to 
only score points off the Gators’ mistakes.
But Auburn came out two sets later as an 
almost entirely new opponent and fought a 
back-and-forth battle at the net before senior 
Kristy Jaeckel sealed Florida’s 3-0 victory (25-10, 25-17, 28-26) Sunday with a decisive kill on a Tigers overpass. 
While Florida (23-5, 16-3 Southeastern 
Conference) had to overcome its own nine service errors to sweep Auburn (10-19, 4-15 SEC), the third-set scare may have been ex-actly what the Gators needed before one last regular-season game Wednesday and the start of the NCAA Tournament.
“At the end they really pushed us,” senior 
Kelly Murphy said. “They dug some of our 
great shots, and I think for us to be able to 
fight back shows a lot of maturity and just the growth of our team. I think we’re at a great point at this time of the season.” 
Murphy led the offense and hit .615 with 
eight kills and no errors. But the attack was balanced overall, as Jaeckel and junior Tan-gerine Wiggs each added seven kills.
“We did a good job distributing the ball,” 
Jaeckel said. “The more people we can get good looks, the more the other team has to rethink who they want to stop. Obviously …  Kelly was unstoppable, and that really came in clutch for us in the end.”
Jaeckel also did her part 
and led the team’s defen-
sive effort, showing her 
strength in the back row in the middle of the second set by notching three consecu-tive digs in one rally. She 
finished the afternoon with a team-high seven digs.
“Kristy is a fifth-year 
senior who plays like it,” coach Mary Wise 
said. “If she were a basketball player she’d 
be that one that you look at assists, rebounds, scoring, steals — she’s doing so much for us. Kelly’s done that for four years.  That’s where it’s so valuable to have two such complete players.”
Although the sweep marked UF’s sixth 
win in a row, the Gators now enter this week with the goal of eliminating service errors for their float servers.
That emphasis, combined with Florida’s 
gritty play to prevent a fourth set, puts the team just where they want to be heading into the postseason.
“It’s good for us,” Wise said. “If Auburn 
hadn’t played well in that third set, I don’t 
know how much better we would have got-
ten from this match.”
Jaeckel leads Gators to sweep against Tigers on Senior DayUF Soccer
VOLLEYBALL
Wise
