VOLUME 106 ISSUE 17 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Abandoned bicyles ﬁ  nd home in UF surplus warehouse
UPD is encouraging students to get bicycles registered, pg 3.  
UF gets free access to lynda.com 
The project is funded through Student Technology fee, pg 8. Student Senate awards $90,000 to SGP
The money is coming from SG reserves, which 
come from fees paid by students, pg. 4. 
Left guard Dan 
Wenger and the 
Gators’ offensive 
line has not yet 
allowed a sack 
this season. 
See Story, Page 16.
93/68
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  13
SPORTS 14 Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff 
   Stop and Go
Congestion near the UF campus isn’t uncommon, but trafﬁ  c signal upgrades aim to cut back on it. The county has spent millions of dollars installing vehicle detectors at major intersections. See story, page 4. 
  JAVIER PEÑA
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Century Tower soon won’t be the only thing 
towering over UF.
  On Oct. 25, National Basketball Association 
star Shaquille O’Neal will be speaking at the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center. 
  The Accent Speaker’s Bureau is paying 
O’Neal $70,000 for his appearance.
  The event is open to students and the public, 
according to Corey Portnoy, chairman of Ac-
cent.
  Admission is free and de-
termined on a ﬁ  rst-come, ﬁ  rst-served basis.
  During the show, students 
will be able to ask questions of O’Neal, who started in the NBA in 1992 and retired last 
June. 
  “He’s a sports icon,” Portnoy said.   In the past, Accent has brought speakers 
ranging from comedians Demetri Martin and Andy Samberg to former U.S. Presidents Ron-ald Reagan and Bill Clinton.
  Jazmine Armstrong, a sociology junior, is 
looking forward to hearing the 7-foot-1-inch-tall basketball player’s perspective on educa-tion.
  Advertising senior Jordan Crandall, an avid 
sports fan, said he would be interested in hear-ing what O’Neal has to say. 
  “I think he’s a pretty funny guy,” Crandall 
said.  “It would be cool to stand next to him to see how I stacked up.”  Accent to bring 
Shaquille O’Neal to speak Oct. 25  AMANDA COHEN
 Alligator Contributing Writer
  UF dropped in two categories in the annual 
U.S. News and World Report Rankings.
  The report, which was released Tuesday 
morning, indicated that UF fell ﬁ  ve spots to 
No. 58 in the Best National Universities cate-gory and two spots to No. 19 in the Best Public Universities category.  Rankings are calculated using a variety of 
statistics including academic reputation, high school counselor reputation, graduation rate, ﬁ  nancial resources data, retention rate and alumni funding.
  UF spokesman Steve Orlando said the 
university’s drop in the national and public university categories had to do with change in UF’s academic reputation.
  “Academic reputation is calculated based on the opinions of other university presi-dents,” Orlando said. “It’s a very subjective thing.”
  In the category of public universities, aca-
demic reputation counts 15 percent.
  One category in which UF improved was 
Best Undergraduate Engineering Programs. In that category, UF’s College of Engineering moved from No. 32 to No. 27, according to UF spokesman Steve Orlando.
  That ties the college with other universi-
ties such as Harvard University, University of Pennsylvania and University of Southern California, Orlando said. 
  Robert Morse, director of data research for 
U.S. News and World Report, said the report is signiﬁ  cant because of its scope.
  Compared to other collegiate rankings, 
Morse said, U.S. News ranks more schools and thus takes more student data into consid-eration.
  Harvard University and Princeton Univer-
sity tied for No. 1  in the national rankings, while University of California, Berkeley was  UF fell to 58th in ranking of national universities
STATE
  BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  North Florida has been swallowed by 
smoke from all sides.
  The Tuesday morning haze was from 
several ﬁ  res in the area. Tim Hayes, dep-
uty ﬁ  re chief for Gainesville Fire Rescue, said there are no active ﬁ  res in Gainesville, and the closest smoke has been coming from ﬁ  res in Bradford County .   Smoke has also been churning out of 
the 3,800-acre Big Gum Swamp ﬁ  re in the Osceola National Forest and the 250-acre Long Tram ﬁ  re 200 miles west of Lake Butler.
  The U.S. Forest Service ﬁ  re in Big Gum 
Swamp is not producing heavy smoke, according to a notice from the Suwannee Forestry Center. 
  But, the notice said, the Long Tram 
ﬁ  re is not contained and is sending fairly heavy smoke.
  Some of the smoke also comes from 
swamp ﬁ  res in Georgia, Hayes said.
  The Honey Prairie ﬁ  re in Georgia is 
in the Okefenokee National Wildlife Ref-uge, according to the notice from the Su-wannee Forestry Center.
  Those ﬁ  res are mostly debris ﬁ  res that 
are large and difﬁ  cult to put out, Hayes said. Smoke drifting in from nearby swamp ﬁ  res
SEE SMOKE, PAGE 9SEE RANKING, PAGE 9Standing dropped ﬁ  ve spots from last year
O’Neal
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 17 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Justin Hayes,
  Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Adrianna Paidas, Lily Parkinson, 
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,  
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Deskt
op Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
IMPACT Autism @ UF General 
Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.HPNP Building, Room G301  
Come to the first general meet-ing of the year to learn how to get involved this fall. Don’t forget to bring $15 for dues to get T-shirts. Check out the Facebook group “IMPACT Autism @ UF” for more infor -
mation. 
Swap Meet UF
Thursday, 6 p.m.Stuzin Hall 267 Center for Entrepreneurship and InnovationSeeking an internship, extern-ship or project opportunity with a Gainesville start-up/en-trepreneurial company? Here’s a chance to meet company rep-resentatives from more than 30 Gainesville start-ups, includ-ing Grooveshark, AxoGen, Trendy Entertainment, Register Patient, Fracture and many more. Opportunities are avail-able in areas such as marketing, Web development, public rela-tions, computer engineering, advertising and more. See the full company list, event agen-da and RSVP on Facebook by searching “Swap Meet UF — 
Fall 2011.”
UF Distinguished Professor 
Lecture Series: Arlan Rosenbloom, Department of Pediatrics
Thursday, 6 to 8 p.m.Hough HallThe UF Hough Hall Graduate School of Business presents “Insights and Conundrums about Growth Hormone Action Pathways.” Refreshments will be served. RSVP by Sept. 13 to 
mccrayi@ufl.edu.com/bgso/home.html. 
Black Graduate Student 
Organization Pajama Jam and ‘80s Party
Friday, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.Alley Katz Bowling Alley3705 SW 42nd Ave.BGSO invites students to the freshest party of the semester. Put on pajamas or ‘80s gear and join the organization for a night of fashion, music and dancing all in the spirit of the “House Party” movies. Cost of admission is $15. For more in-formation, email Jonee Lewis at joneelewis@ufl.edu or check out the organization’s website at anymorequestions.com/bgso/home.html. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly for -
matted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.The Role of Sentencing Reform 
in LibertarianismThursday, 7:30 to 8:30 p.m.Matherly 118The UF Libertarians are hosting Greg Newburn of Families Against Mandatory Minimums for a talk about controversial legislated man-datory minimum sentences for criminal offenses. Any criminology , political science or pre-law students or any-one else interested in the top-ics of criminal justice and lib-
erty are welcome to attend. 
Black Graduate Student 
Organization Forum fea-turing Christopher “Play” Martin
Friday, 6 to 8 p.m.College of Public Health and Health Professions AuditoriumChristopher “Play” Martin from Kid ‘n Play will engage in a one-on-one discussion on the evolution of hip-hop, his professional success and his personal struggles. Then he will anchor  “The New Faces of Academia: Higher Education in the 21st Century ,” a panel discussion about the need for minor -
ity scholars in academia and the diversity of discipline research. Admission is free. For more information, email Jonee Lewis at joneelewis@ufl.edu or check out the BGSO website at anymorequestions.
THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
86/68SUNNY
88/68PARTLY
CLOUDY
92/69PARTLY
CLOUDY
93/70SUNNY
93/68
 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 3
  ERIN JESTER
 Alligator Writer
 
  As the chaos of the ﬁ  rst few weeks 
of classes subsides and the semester 
gets underway, the University Police Department is reminding students to register their bicycles. 
  For those who are prone to leaving 
their bikes in the same place for weeks or months at a time, UPD Capt. Jeff Holcomb said, registration could save students the cost of a new one.
  UPD sweeps UF’s campus each se-
mester for abandoned bicycles, which are tagged with a notice that owners are asked to remove if they wish to keep their bikes. 
  Five days after leaving the tags, Hol-
comb and Physical Plant Division em-ployees return to collect the bikes that still have tags.
  UPD Maj. Brad Barber said there 
are occasional problems with people removing tags from bikes they don’t own.
  He urges students not to do that, 
since UPD continues the collection pro-gram to make more space on the racks for working bikes.
  The next sweep will be in Novem-
ber. Holcomb said UPD usually collects 150 to 180 abandoned bikes during the Fall semester and about 300 after Spring semester, although the collection crew took in 600 bikes at the end of Spring 2009.
  Since then, he said, UPD has worked 
with residence halls to more widely ad-vertise the collections, and the number of bikes collected after dorm move-out has returned to average. 
  Bikes are determined to be aban-
doned if they show signs of long peri-ods of disuse, such as dry-rotting tires, missing parts or grass growing through the wheel spokes as if they’ve been mowed around several times.
  “Basically, if you can’t ride it home 
today, it’s been left,” Holcomb said. 
  However, he said, during one sweep 
of the residence hall racks, UPD collect-ed a new bike that still had its owner’s manual in a plastic bag attached to the handlebars. 
  Its owner never removed the collec-
tion notice. 
  All bikes on residence hall racks are 
tagged at the end of the Spring semes-ter.
  If a registered bike gets collected, 
UPD will send a letter to the owner ask-ing him or her to claim it.  Bikes that aren’t claimed after 30 
days are auctioned online at surplus.uﬂ  .edu.
  Barber said registration also increas-
es the chances of getting a stolen bike back. He said he can remember many instances in which, after eyeing a UPD registration sticker, the question “Is this your bike?” prompted the rider to hand the bike over to police immediately. 
  Bicycles can be registered at UPD’s 
ofﬁ  ce on Museum Road. Barber said the process takes only ﬁ  ve minutes. 
 Ashley Crane / Alligator 
   UPD collects between 150 and 180 abandoned bicycles every Fall semester 
and about 300 bikes after the Spring semester. 
 UF collects, auctions abandoned bicycles
Students encouraged to register bikes
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
 
  Though the 87,473 fans at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium Saturday night were there to watch a football 
game, the weekend’s signiﬁ  cance as the 10th an-niversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks could not be forgotten. 
  The Gators ran out of the tunnel waving Ameri-
can ﬂ  ags, Gainesville ﬁ  rst responders were cheered for on the ﬁ  eld and the marching band played an 8-minute halftime show of patriotic songs.
  Then, late in the Gators’ 39-0 rout of the Univer-
sity of Alabama at Birmingham Blazers, a low-ﬂ  ying plane soared over the stadium.
  “It was very bad timing,” said University Police 
Lt. William Gainey.
  Under Federal Aviation Administration regula-
tions, the 3-and-a-half-mile radius around stadiums that hold more than 30,000 people is considered a no-ﬂ  y zone. 
  This regulation is typically respected during UF 
home football games, which can draw crowds of  over 90,000. 
  Exceptions can be made, however, if federal air 
trafﬁ  c controllers authorize the ﬂ  ight plan.
  UPD ofﬁ  cials were not given advance notice 
that the air space over the stadium would be used, a heads up that Gainey said would have been very helpful to stadium security.
  “This entire season we are on heightened alert,” 
he said —  especially last weekend.
  In response to this raised alert, UPD has taken 
several new security measures for gamedays.
  For example, all stadium employees must un-
dergo a new, rigorous background check before they are allowed access. 
  The Gainesville Regional Airport did not autho-
rize any ﬂ  ight plans to ﬂ  y over the stadium that day , according to spokeswoman Laura Aguiar.
  UPD spokesman Brad Barber said the destina-
tion of the plane was unknown as of Tuesday after-noon. Low-ﬂ  ying plane 
over stadium had ‘very bad timing’
“This entire season we are on     
heightened alert.”
William Gainey
Police LietuenantCLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
The Student Senate voted Tuesday to 
give Student Government Productions 
$90,000 from Student Government re-serve funds.
The money will be added to the ex-
isting SGP budget. Of the additional funding, $71,000 will go to Gator Growl, $15,000 will go the Florida Invita-tional Step Show and $4,000 will go to Soulfest.
Treasurer T.J. Villamil said the reserve 
fund totals about $3.5 million. 
Reserve funds come from the activity 
and service fee paid by UF students.
Minority Leader Gillian Leytham said 
if Gator Growl needs more money, it should raise ticket prices.
“Students not going to Gator Growl 
should not have to pay for Gator Growl,” she said. 
Student tickets for Gator Growl cost 
$15. Gator Growl, which will be held at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Nov. 4, at-tracts about 15,000 students, Villamil said. 
Leytham said giving money to Gator 
Growl would benefit 30 percent of the Student Body at the most.
Villamil said the extra funding will 
help “bring pizzazz back to Growl” and help Soulfest and FISS with funding is-sues. 
Villamil also pointed out that bringing 
the stage alone into Ben Hill Griffin Sta-dium costs about $300,000. He said there had been talk of raising ticket prices.
Gator Growl producer Aaron Heger 
said Gator Growl staff decided to bring a music act back to the pep rally after a 1,500-student survey indicated that 90 percent of students wanted a music act. There was no music act in 2010, which Heger said was partly a result of expens-es. 
He said bringing O.A.R., the band at 
Gator Growl in 2009, cost almost as much as all of the 2010 comedians combined.
Heger said that at first, staff mem-
bers didn’t realize how much a music act would cost, but they had already start-ed looking into hiring big-name bands when they realized the expense. 
That’s when SGP stepped in and of-
fered to sponsor the band to help with costs and advertise SGP to the Student Body, Heger said. 
Gator Growl staff announced in late 
July that the Goo Goo Dolls would per-form at the pep rally.After that, Villamil was able to dis-
cuss the funding with the other execu-tive student government officers, bring the proposal to the Budget and Appro-priations Committee and then present it to the Senate Tuesday night.
Without funding from SG and SGP , 
Heger said, ticket prices likely would have increased.
4, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
Erik Knudsen / Alligator
Student Body Treasurer T.J. Villamil proposed to give SGP $90,000 out of SG 
reserve funds. The proposal also gives money to Gator Growl, Soulfest and the Florida Invitational Step Show.STUDENT GOVERNMENTSenate gives SGP , Gator Growl $161,000
� THE TECHNOLOGY HAS BEEN USED 
AT UF FOR ABOUT 10 YEARS.
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Marielle Pellegrino has two minutes to cor -
rectly answer the question displayed on the 
screen in her physics class. 
As the time runs out, she sees students click-
ing in their responses. Finally , she clicks in her response as well and waits.
Pellegrino, an aerospace engineering soph-
omore, got the right answer — along with 95 percent of the class. 
Pellegrino is just one student who uses the 
Classroom Response System, more commonly known as “clickers.” 
Although UF doesn’t track the number of 
clickers in classrooms, the equipment has been at the university for about 10 years, according to Mark McCallister, the associate director at the Office of Academic Technology . 
Clickers are most prevalent in lecture class-
es, and they allow faculty to interact in a way that would otherwise be impossible in a large lecture, McCallister said. For example, faculty can take attendance and conduct quizzes with the equipment. 
If teachers choose to use clickers, they can 
decide which model to require students to buy, McCallister said.
Geography sophomore Vance Harris said 
he thought clickers were beneficial but didn’t like that he had to purchase the equipment himself.
During the past two years, Harris said, he 
had to buy three different clicker models for three different UF classes.
“I feel buying extra equipment is tedious,” 
Harris said. “It might benefit the learning expe-rience, but it is ridiculous to pay for three dif-ferent models.”
Clickers at the UF Bookstore range from $30 
to $50.
Despite the prevalence of clickers on cam-
pus, some critics say the equipment makes it easier for students to cheat. For example, stu-dents can click in multiple-choice answers for friends who are absent from class.
But McCallister said UF’s regular cheating 
policy also applies for the Classroom Response System.
At UF, students who are caught cheating are 
referred to the Dean of Students Office, McCal-lister said.
Since starting the semester, economics fresh-
man  Danielle Cooke said she hasn’t witnessed cheating in her calculus class, which uses click-ers.  
“The TA did warn us about cheating at the 
beginning of the semester,” Cooke said. “I have a feeling it will happen at least once or twice during the semester.”
Harris took human sexuality and calculus 
last spring. He noticed people cheating on at-tendance and quizzes in both classes.
“In human sexuality some people were 
caught cheating,” Harris said, “so they made announcements that TAs were walking around to prevent it.” 
However, students are allowed to discuss 
the questions with other students, at least in Pellegrino’s class.
“We try to figure out the answer among 
classmates,” Pellegrino said. “The idea is more that you understand it.”Clicker system 
gains popularity among teachers
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
A multimillion-dollar project to im-
prove traffic signals in Alachua County 
has made clearing out UF gameday traffic easier, but routine maintenance problems at various traffic lights are still an issue. 
The $18-million project, which began 
at the end of 2007 and is now about 75 percent complete, led to the inclusion of traffic cameras and fiber-optic cables to improve the traffic signal system in Ala-chua County, said Matt Weisman, Intel-ligent Transportation Systems operations engineer for the traffic division of the City of Gainesville.
All county intersections have vehicle 
detectors that prompt the lights to change when there are low traffic levels and a car approaches. 
The detectors are wires in the road that 
pick up on the metal of cars. More than 50 miles of fiber-optic cables run under -
ground to permit data flow from traffic signals in the city and parts of Alachua County.
Cloudia Kowalski, a senior nursing 
student at UF, has used a scooter since her freshman year and has gotten stuck at traf-fic signals that didn’t detect her scooter. 
For some lights, including one in the 
midtown area of Gainesville, she’ll just make a right-hand turn on a red light and find a place to make a U-turn, she said. 
Weisman said the detectors should pick 
up scooters as well, but if drivers of scoot-ers or even cars drive past the “stop” lines at a signal, they may be out of the equip-ment’s range. 
The traffic division office has a wall of 
120 video screens set up at traffic signals that allow employees to monitor traffic levels and how the signals are operating.
The traffic department monitors video 
feeds at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium and can alter traffic signals’ timing to help flush out traffic more quickly when people begin heading home, he said.
For the first two games of the 2011 sea-
son, it took about 70 to 80 minutes for traf-fic to clear out. For more popular games like the upcoming University of Tennessee match, it may take closer to 90 minutes. 
But this is still an improvement from 
the three or four hours it sometimes took in previous years before the traffic system update, he said.  
Weisman named two broken traffic sig-
nals that he could remember off-hand: one at SW 16th Avenue and Main Street and another at 51st Place and NW 43rd Street. 
The equipment for repairing the latter 
signal came in this week, and the problem should be fixed within the next two weeks, he said. 
The Main Street signal will require a 
contractor to help fix it, so it could take a month or two to fully repair it. 
The City of Gainesville provides about 
$10,000 a year strictly for vehicle detector repairs, Weisman said.
Vehicle detectors installed at intersections
County is still working out glitches WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
SALT LAKE CITY — The uni-
versity math students heard the 
crash, saw the smoke and knew they had to act quickly. A motorcy-clist had just collided with a car and was pinned beneath the flaming, twisted metal wreckage.
Disregarding their own safety, 
they rushed to the street and lined up with more than half a dozen others on one side of the car. With-in moments, they managed to lift the roughly 4,000-pound car just high enough for one rescuer to pull Brandon Wright to safety.
“The danger? I didn’t think 
about it for a minute,” said James Odei, 35, a doctoral candidate from Ghana who is studying statistics. “All I wanted to do was grab that car and raise it.”
For their actions, the rescuers 
are being called “heroes” and “an-gels” — their heroics were captured on video and have gone viral on the Internet. The man they saved — the 21-year-old Utah State University student — is grateful.
“I’m just very thankful for ev-
eryone that helped me out,” Wright told The Associated Press. “They saved my life.”
Had none of the rescuers acted, 
“you can only speculate what the outcome would have been,” Assis-tant Logan Police Chief Jeff Curtis said. “Every one of those people put their lives in danger.”
That may be true, but none who 
came to Wright’s aid want to be la-beled a hero.
“That’s a big title,” said Abbass 
Sharif, 28, another doctoral can-didate. “I don’t consider myself a hero. It’s just our humanity ... Ev-eryone is going to help.”
At a hospital news conference 
on Tuesday, Wright’s uncle, Tyler Riggs, recounted what Wright told his family about Monday’s acci-dent.
The crash happened near Utah 
State University in Logan, roughly 90 miles north of Salt Lake City. Wright was headed to study at a computer lab, Riggs said. The BMW was pulling out of a parking lot.
Tire and skid marks on the high-
way showed that Wright laid the bike down and slid along the road before colliding with the car, Curtis said.
Riggs said Wright tried to protect 
himself by laying his bike down.
The bike hit the car’s hood and 
bounced to the ground, while Wright, who was not wearing a helmet, slid under the car and then both vehicles burst into flames, Curtis said.
The video, shot by university 
staffer Chris Garff who had seen the smoke, shows a crowd gather -
ing around the burning wreckage as flames shoot into the air.
Some of the rescuers are wear -
ing construction helmets and safety vests, others sport school backpacks and at least one police officer is in the crowd. Some quickly place their hands on the car and start to rock it, while others lift from the bottom until the car tilts up.
Once the car is on its wheels, a 
construction worker in a hardhat and a lime green T-shirt can be seen dragging a spread-eagled Wright from under the car.
Two officers then move in with 
fire extinguisher. A few minutes pass before paramedics start to pro-vide Wright with medical care. It’s unclear whether they had just ar -
rived or whether they were waiting for the scene to be declared safe.
Sharif said he can’t remember 
if the car felt hot or heavy, just that something needed to be done.
“The chance of him dying if we 
don’t do it is like 100 percent,” he said. “If you weigh the chance of you being in danger, that’s going to be low, like 20 percent, compared to 100 percent.”
Riggs said Wright remembered 
details from the crash and told his family that he felt scared and could see and feel the flames. “He re-members being under the car, spit-ting up blood and not being able to talk,” Riggs said.
Despite not wearing a helmet, 
Riggs said, Wright had suffered no head trauma. Wright does have two broken legs, a broken pelvis, road rash, burns on his left foot and abrasions to his forehead. The hos-pital said Wright was in satisfactory condition.
The driver of the BMW, John 
Johnson, had minor injuries. John-son, a USU business school official, did not respond to email and phone messages seeking comment.
Rescuer Matt Barney, a radiation 
therapist who works with cancer patients, said Johnson appeared to be in shock after the accident. “He was really worried about the safety of the young man,” Barney said at a police news conference. “He was very emotional and shaken.”
Curtis said he didn’t know 
whether any citations would be is-sued or charges filed.
Motorcyclist rescued by heroes who lifted car off of him
“I don’t consider           
myself a hero. It’s just our              
humanity ... Everyone is    
going to help.”
Abbass Sharif
rescuerReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
Tuesday’s question: We were unable to retrieve the 
results of the poll due to a technical error.Today’s question:  Are you going to see Shaquille 
O’Neal speak?Weeks after Texas Gov. Rick Perry announced his 
candidacy for president, it appears that the top-tier jocks in the endurance marathon, which has 
been underway for sometime, have finally been identi-fied. 
After the debate last Wednesday, I can decidedly say 
who I am voting for.
During the MSNBC and Politico Republican debate, 
the candidates launched into attack mode. Perry and for -
mer Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney had a tit-for-tat with one another over policies they supported as gover -
nors of their respective states. 
Perry showed his vital weaknesses (or perceived ones, 
depending on who you ask) as a front-runner when the questioners asked about his book “Fed Up! Our Fight to Save America,” which was published last year. 
Most of the flak came from his position on Social Secu-
rity, echoing remarks from the book calling the system a failed “Ponzi scheme.” He implied that those who are in-vesting in the program now will never see their returns. 
In my view, the statement is purely hyperbolic. There 
is plenty of money left, but politicians need to stay out of the Social Security fund. 
According to factcheck.org, “Social Security’s finances 
— while troubled — are an open book, not an investment scam, and the program could still support 74 percent of promised benefits in 2085.”
Students, however, should keep an eye on the pro-
gram, even though it might not be an immediate concern. In the near future, you will be moving out into the real world while your parents or grandparents will be retir -
ing. There will probably be a point when you will be re-sponsible for their well-being. 
Presidential candidate Herman Cain suggested we 
look to Chile for solutions. He made an excellent point. We should be given a choice concerning our retirement and the option to setup a retirement account for each in-dividual. 
The premise is to slowly wean people off of Social Se-
curity so that legislatures cannot snatch it up. I am all for diversifying. It was also revealed during 
the debate that Perry coerced Texan parents of young women to be vaccinated for a disease that causes cervical cancer. He has forever lost any potential for my support. 
Perry usurped the legislation 
by using his power of executive 
order to enact the law.  
During the CNN Tea Party Express Debate this Mon-
day, Rep. Michelle Bachmann threw some right hooks at Perry, calling him on his message for limited government but hypocritically over-extended executive authority.
She further alluded to the fact that the vaccines were 
bought from a pharmaceutical company, Merck, which donated money to Perry’s campaign. 
In response, Perry countered, “The company was 
Merck, and it was a $5,000 contribution that I had re-ceived from them. If you’re saying that I can be bought for $5,000, I’m offended.”
“Well, I’m offended for all the little girls and the par -
ents that didn’t have a choice. That’s what I’m offended for,” Bachmann rebutted. 
At the end of it all, Perry apologized for his past ac-
tions. He confessed that if he could go back in time, he would do things differently.
It takes guts to say sorry in any situation, let alone in 
a national forum. 
He is a big man for that act and should garner re-
spect. 
However, we cannot allow politicians to exceed their 
power. It is our duty as citizens to defy such acts. No man is above the will of the people. 
Given his misguided view of Social Security and his 
abuse of executive power, Rick Perry will not be receiv-ing my vote for the GOP nomination in 2012. 
Nicholas Butler is a journalism sophomore at UF. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.Rick Perry tries to extend executive powerDefensive Denial
Gov’t should consider 
cutting defense budget
Unless you have been living under a rock for the past decade or so, you might have heard something about the fact that the United States is in debt. 
A lot of debt. Over $14 trillion worth of debt. Our current federal budget deficit is over $1.3 trillion. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, 
roughly 21 percent of the government’s budget goes to Medi-care, Medicaid and CHIP , or child health care programs. About 20 percent goes to Social Security.
Coming in at a very close third is our defense and security 
budget standing at another 20 percent. 
Congress is (supposedly) in the process of finding ways to 
reduce the budget deficit and long-term debt. 
Any sensible person would recognize that everything 
must be on the chopping block during these tough times. Ev-ery congressman’s pet project, every earmark, every program and every department deserves critical evaluation and cuts — even defense. 
But not according to former Secretary of Defense Donald 
Rumsfeld. 
In an interview with Human Events, Rumsfeld said, “The 
Department of Defense is not what’s causing the debt and deficit. It’s the entitlement programs.” 
He is certainly right that, combined, entitlements make up 
over 40 percent of the federal budget and future outlays of these programs add trillions more to the debt. 
Still, the Defense Department accounts for one-fifth of our 
budget; to say that it is not a contributing factor to our deficit is a denial of reality. 
Rumsfeld then, in a most impressive use of hyperbole and 
scare tactics, says that if we start looking at the Department of Defense for things to cut, we will be “doomed to suffer another attack of some kind, and our intelligence will be less strong and less effective.”
It’s always fun when public figures politicize the tragedy 
of 9/11 to lobby for desired policy goals. 
Strategically, the Republicans cannot stubbornly refuse 
cuts in defense spending and still expect to get desired cuts elsewhere in the budget. 
The United States has military bases in over 150 countries, 
including most European nations and Asian countries such as Japan and South Korea. 
How can anyone say that there is not fat in the defense 
budget? What purpose does our military presence in coun-tries like Japan and Germany serve? Is this really a vital U.S. interest?
How much money is wasted when the government signs 
defense contracts, not based on value, but on how much that contractor contributed to key members of the Armed Services Committee?
Rumsfeld’s remarks irresponsibly frighten the public from 
seriously considering the cost of American foreign policy and our role abroad.
Nicholas Butler
nbutler@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Tax code can be simplified differently
Monday’s columnist, Travis Hornsby, was 
completely correct about the necessity of a 
simple tax code. 
However, the reason we have a complex 
tax code is not because of some random or complex force but because it lacks a trait it should absolutely possess — anonymity. 
Our tax code is so complicated because of 
lobbying. The tax rate isn’t the same for ev-eryone, so people (corporations and interest groups) pay to get their own exceptions to reduce their tax burden. 
What we should have is this: a flat, con-
sumption-based tax with an annual allow-ance payment.
Sound complicated? It really isn’t. If the tax code suggested by 
the aforementioned Republican presidential hopeful Jon Huntsman would give a college-educated American 10 minutes, an explana-tion would take less than 10 seconds.
Under this consumption-based tax plan, 
you (as an American citizen) receive a check every year for a given amount. If you wanted to keep the same number of Americans cur -
rently paying taxes, that would be approxi-mately $8,000, to offset the taxes paid on basic expenses. 
Whether you’re completely impoverished or a billionaire, the allowance payment is the same. Then, every time you make a purchase you pay a rate (ideally around 17 percent) as a federal sales tax. 
That’s it. No corporate tax, no IRS, no pay-
roll tax, no write-offs, just 17 cents on a dollar, point of sale. No merchant is going to break the law to save General Electric 17 percent on a purchase.
Lobbying for special tax treatment is 
completely ineffective in an anonymous tax system. Combined with ending all corporate welfare and federal subsidies, we would fi-nally have a level playing field.
Companies would come (back) to the U.S. just for the simplicity of the tax process, and the economic growth resulting would be staggering.
Consumer confidence would greatly im-
prove when Americans could spend the 6.1 billion hours we spend per year doing taxes (not to mention the hours worrying about them) doing something productive.
As for accountants? There’s a lot more 
money to be made working for a smart, ca-pable and analytically talented individual on improving a business than doing taxes for one.
Ian Mitchell 
UF student
This month, Palestinians will take the unprecedented step 
of applying for full-state membership to the United Na-tions. Currently, they hold non-state observer status. 
While this upends the peace process, this course of action 
is the best way forward for negotiations and the first step to-ward achieving a lasting peace.
Israelis argue that instead of promoting peace, this weak-
ens it. Rather than negotiations resuming after the U.N. ac-cepts Palestine as a state, negotiations, they say, would stall, and tensions will rise between Israel and Palestine. Israelis argue that this amounts to a unilateral declaration, and Pales-tinians ought to simply negotiate.
Frankly, the idea that taking an application for member -
ship in the U.N. as unilateral is laughable. One doesn’t see a much more multilateral organization than the U.N., which contains every country on the planet in some fashion. And Palestinians know the U.N. recognizing them as a state on the borders set out in U.N. Resolution 194 (the West Bank and Gaza Strip) does not mean they will instantly have a state or that Israel will withdraw from the oc-cupation.
Mahmoud Abbas, Palestinian 
Authority president, said he would “happily resume negotiations with 
Israel after returning from New York City.” 
But this seems to be the only way to really push the reset 
button on the conflict.
Palestinians argue, rather convincingly, that instead of de-
stroying the two-state solution, they are preserving it. 
In 1967, Israel annexed East Jerusalem, denying citizenship 
to its residents, leaving them without passport or nationality.
This expansion of settlements means the future Palestin-
ian state is quickly shrinking. Israel will insist on keeping the largest of its settlement blocs in the West Bank, while disman-tling smaller ones. 
At a panel of former Israeli security officials in Washing-
ton, D.C., this summer, Shaul Arieli, former head of the In-terim Peace Agreement Administration, noted that 75 to 85 percent of settlers could stay in Israeli territory by swapping only three to four percent of the land.
At this same panel, Alon Pinkas, former Israeli consul gen-
eral in New York, explained the curious behavior of Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu. In late July, Netan-yahu asked his national security adviser for a way to nullify the Oslo Accords. It’s strange that the Israeli responsible for peace is searching for a way to dismantle it.
Pinkas envisions a possible future where Israel must make 
a terrible choice. Choice one: Give the Palestinians full and equal rights as Israeli citizens and lose the Jewish nature of Is-rael. Choice two: Institute apartheid and give up democracy.
Fortunately, it hasn’t come to that — yet. This is why the 
Palestinian initiative at the United Nations is so important. Instead of vetoing the application, the United States should support it or at least support the non-member observer state status which the U.N. General Assembly will grant.
Zach Smith writes for the Daily Nebraskan at the University of 
Nebraska.
Palestinians right in seeking recognition from United NationsUWire
Zach Smith
UWireMINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
UF Hillel has seen an increase in demand 
for Taglit-Birthright Israel trips.
Birthright is a 10-day trip that allows peo-
ple of Jewish heritage to connect with their 
roots by visiting the country.
“It is not intended to make students reli-
gious but to understand that they are part of a bigger Jewish population,” said Joshua Kahn, the Jewish agency program director at Hillel. 
To attend the trip, students can register 
through Hillel or other organizations. Hillel takes students on the trip twice a year, during the summer and winter.
UF Hillel offers Birthright for 
UF students through a tour opera-tor, IsraelExperts, according to Kahn.  
Israel funds 15 percent of the costs for the Birthright program. Various organizations and private donors fund the rest.
It costs about $3,000 to send each person to 
Israel.
The program is free except for a $250 secu-
rity deposit that is returned at the end of the trip.
Each student receives a round-trip ticket, 
two meals a day and a bus seat to travel in Is-rael. Hillel sent three full buses of UF students on Birthright in May, about 120 students total. 
Hillel hasn’t sent such a large group of stu-
dents since before the wave of terrorism in Is-rael in the early 2000s, Kahn said.Kahn said more students want to attend 
Birthright because they have heard positive things from students who went in the past.
“Because of word-of-mouth, people realize 
that it really is no strings attached and a trip of a lifetime,” Kahn said.
The turbulent political climate in the Mid-dle East may be another reason students are choosing to register for Birthright now, Kahn said.
“With turbulent neighbors, Israel is a stable 
island in a sea of chaos,” Kahn said.
The winter trip is typically less popular 
with students, Kahn said, but he still expects to send at least two full buses in December and four buses next summer.
One bus holds 40 students, five to eight Is-
raeli soldiers, two American staff members, a tour guide, a medic and an armed guard. 
Registration for the winter trip, which is 
from Dec. 27 to Jan. 7, begins today at ufisrael-trip.com. Registration will be open for about four days. 
After registration, students will have short 
interview sessions to determine eligibility. To be eligible, students must have at least one Jewish parent or identify themselves as Jew-ish, Kahn said.
Ashley Meral, an accounting junior, went 
on Birthright in May.
“If you could go on the trip more than once, 
I would go every single time,” Meral said.
Briana Rittersporn, a sophomore telecom-
munications major, chose to go through Hil-lel for her Birthright trip because she wants a chance to see what she learned about in He-brew school.
“The program will give me a chance to see 
Israel, especially since my parents won’t pay for it,” Rittersporn said. 
But not all students are choos-
ing to go on Birthright through Hillel.  
Michelle Amit, a microbiology junior, plans to use a national company when she registers for Birthright this winter.
“I want to meet Jewish people from all over 
and travel to some amazing places together,” Amit said.8, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
Photo courtesy to the Alligator
This photo shows one of three bus loads of students Hillel sent to Israel over summer.  
Hillel expects to send two buses in December and four buses next summer.
Alex Catalano / Alligator
In Memoriam
Carolina Ochsenius paints a tribute to the deceased Sebastian Ochsenius on the 34th Street Wall while 
family and friends watch. Sebastian was fatally shot in his home on June 29, 2010.
STUDENT LIFENumber of students traveling to Israel for Birthright increases
� ALL THAT IS NEEDED IS 
A GATORLINK ACCOUNT.  
SIJUN LI
Alligator Contributing Writer
Don’t know how to use 
Photoshop? There’s a video for 
that.
From learning the basics of 
Microsoft Office to developing a fully functional Flash web-site, users of lynda.com can gain access to more than one thousand online video tutori-als at their fingertips. 
And now, so can anyone 
with a GatorLink account. 
UF Information Technol-
ogy has partnered with lynda.com, also known as the On-line Training Library, for the 2011-12 academic school year. UF students, faculty and staff will be able to gain full access to the site by logging in with their GatorLink username and password.  
Lynda.com currently has 
1,124 courses with titles rang-ing from Microsoft Excel to Adobe InDesign. Through UF’s one-year pilot program, GatorLink account holders can gain unlimited access to lynda.com and view any of their tu-torials for free. 
The lynda.com project was 
proposed last year by Bruce Floyd, UF’s social media spe-cialist. It’s one of six proj-ects funded by UF’s Student Technology Fee, which was implemented by the Florida Legislature in 2009 to enhance instructional technology re-sources. 
“Aside from the computer-
based stuff, lynda.com can teach you how to update your resume and make an effective PowerPoint,” Floyd said. 
UF is not the only institu-
tion to introduce the online library. Other schools, such as Yale University, and compa-nies like Google and Amazon also use the site.
“It’s a quick way to get 
started using complex pieces of software,” said David Carl-son, a professor of new media journalism and the executive director for the Center for Me-dia Innovation and Research. “I think it provides a lot of op-portunities to learn skills you may not already have or to further develop ones you do have.”
Lynda.com can be used any-
where that has Internet access, but GatorLink account holders must access the site through UFIT’s website, it.ufl.edu.
Depending on its first-year 
performance, lynda.com may be available in upcoming school years. 
“I’m really thrilled that the 
university has provided this tool for us,” Carlson said. “It’s really a great thing.”UF gets free access 
to tutorial website
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
The Office of Asian and Pacific Islander 
American Affairs has a director for the first time.  
Student Body Vice President Anthony Reynolds, along 
with the Office of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, spearheaded the effort.
Reynolds, who is the first Filipino collegiate Student 
Body vice president in Florida, said he wanted to help find a director on which students could rely. He is a member of the Asian American Students Union.
“This was a very personal project for me,” he said.Although he is not sure exactly how long it has taken 
to hire a director, Reynolds said he knows the move has been in progress for at least eight years.
As director, Leah Villanueva said she will 
bring an ability to relate to APIA undergraduates.  
Villanueva graduated from UF in 2006 and was involved in APIA as a student. She started the job at the begin-ning of the Fall semester. She said she wants to work on developing leadership opportunities, educational pro-gramming, advocating for Asian-American studies and organizing an alumni-student mentoring network.
Email Villanueva with questions at lmv@multicul-
tural.ufl.edu.Asian-American group selects directorHe suggests people stay inside where air is 
filtered, especially asthmatics, those with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease and others with respiratory problems. 
People who know they have breathing condi-
tions should avoid being outside for a long time or at all because it can cause an attack, said Preeti Jois, medical director of the Chest Pain Emergen-cy Room at Shands Hospital.
“Be careful with the smoke,” Jois said. “There 
could be fungus in the tree and now that’s in the smoke.”
She said allergens in the smoke can affect the 
receptors in the lung tissue, which will make it harder to breathe. 
As a runner, she said those planning to ex-
ercise should know it will be more difficult to breathe.She said the smoke makes for a lower quality workout, so those planning to be out-doors should be cautious against straining them-selves.
Jois said studies have shown that chronic ex-
posure to toxicants in concentrated smoke will cause lung tissue damage. 
Johnathan Vega, a junior criminology major, 
said he has not been bothered by the smoke or smelled it.
“You can only see the smoke in the distance,” 
he said.
Michelle Novoa, a freshman health science 
major, said she rarely notices the smoke but did this morning.
She said at first she thought the smoke and its 
smell was from construction near where she lives a few blocks from campus.Novoa said she real-ized when she came to campus and still smelled the smoke that it must be something else.
 “When I bike, I feel it in my lungs,” she said. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
SMOKE , from page 8Prolonged exposure can be harmfulUniversity of Miami 
takes top spot in Florida
ranked  No. 1 in the Public University 
category . 
In the National Universities cat-
egory, the University of Miami jumped nine spots to No. 38 from last year to this year. It is now the top-ranked uni-versity in Florida and 20 spots ahead of UF.
Florida State University ranked No. 
101 in the national ranking and No. 46 in the Public School category.
Finance junior Jacob Lauver doesn’t 
think the drop was big enough to really impact the university . 
He said he thought UF’s falling 
rankings had to do with acceptance rates.
“We let more people in,” Lauver said. “We’re more focused on diversity than test scores.”
RanKing , from page 1
Top Public Schools
 
1. University of California, Berkeley  
2. University of California, Los Angeles 
and University of Virginia  
4. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor  
5. University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill
6. College of William and Mary  
7. Georgia Institute of Technology  
8. University of California, San Diego  
9. University of California, Davis  
10. University of California, Santa 
Barbara;  University of Washington; 
University of Wisconsin — MadisonWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive
$349 4/4 All-Inclusive
VISA Gift Cards Available
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $329
Upgraded 4/4’s ONLY $359
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
     1,2,3,BR’s – Welcome Home!
·         HUGE floorplans! * H20/Sewer Incl!·         W/D Avail! * Pets Loved!·         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis·        376-2507 * BivensCove.com 12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 11
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    9-14-11-67-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2Bath, Washer/Dryer, 
Fenced backyard, Carport,
No pets. $1450./Mo   303-877-4915
9-19-11-30-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-23-11-29-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs.1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-15509-16-11-20-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    9-19-11-20-2Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $2000/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    9-19-11-20-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-58879-20-20-2
Spectacular 3BR, Lakefront Condo
1 mile south of UF and Shandsrecently renovated,  $1299 monthpool, clubhouse, 2500 s.f. + garageavailable immediately (352) 262-2871    9-21-11-20-2
●Historic House walk to UF.2703 NW 2nd 
Ave.Central h/a,screened porch,private parking,laundry with w/d.perfect for grad stu-dent or professional.No pets.1st,last sec.$40 app fee. $795 mo. 352-332-5836    9-15-11-16-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
Spacious 3br/2ba/2cg home in Blues Creek, 
huge Mbr/ba w/walk-in closet,cent ac/heat w/sec sys,internet hookup, all appls, W/D, $1200/mo, 7953 NW 48 way, call 954-805-7827, 561-912-6223, billyo110708@att.net  9-20-11-10-2
SPACIOUS TOWNHOME with backyard,
2BR/1.5BA
off Archer Road near UF.
Contact 386-328-6229.
e-mail moritae@yahoo.com $529/month
9-29-11-15-2
Stoneridge Apt / No deposit / Avail Now
* 1 Bedroom ~ 1 Bath ~ 816 sq ft* $625/mo ~ $35 App Fee ~ Sept FREE * Cats & Small Dogs OK* Email Julie at jmf1001@gmail.com    9-15-11-5-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   9-27-11-10-2
I WILL PAY 1 MONTH RENT AND 
APPLICATION FEE TO SUBLET ($300)- 1 bedroom with bathroom in quad apt. at The Crossing at Santa Fe, female only....rent $359/mo. until August 2012.....background check required...pls. call 813-391-7596...Liz   9-16-11-5-3
1/1 in a 3/3 at the Enclave. $514/month, 
cable, utilities, wireless internet, and fur-niture included. January 2012-July 2012. Must be a female UF student. Email Krista at ufkris2011@gmail.com for details.   9-20-11-7-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
2007 Honda CBR600RR Perfect Condition  
2007 Honda CBR600RR, garage kept and covered. 1600 miles perfect condition, never down. You must have a valid motorcycle li-cense to test it out.   $6200   Ph: (352) 281-7907  Email: kgb@digitalcontrollab.com 9-16-5-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      9-22-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
$$ CASH PAID, $500 OR MORE $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
The Independent Florida Alligator
IT Department
Is now accepting applications for a
STUDENT  INTERN
If you are a student able to work 4-10 hours
per week this fall and are eager to gain
valuable hands-on experience in desktop
support and network infrastructure, then stop
by the Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F,
9am-4pm to fill out an application.
Please include available work schedule,
references, and resume.
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14Centerplate Part-Time Jobs!
● Event Supervisors● Warehouse Runners● CashiersApply in person at Ben Hill Griffin StadiumMonday-Friday 8:00 AM to 4:00 PMwww.centerplate.eventbrite.com
(352) 692-6244
                      9-23-11-17-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
Florida Football Drink Seller!
Tremendous Cash in a Short Time!Yes - it is a work out!Apply in person at Concessions OfficeGate 18 BHG Stadium       9-23-11-17-14
LIFEGUARD.$12.00 PER HOUR. 
REQUIRES CERTIFICATION.20 HRS/WK ON 3 DAY WKNDS. ADD'L HRS MAY BE AVAIL. ADULT-MALE PATIENTS IN MAX SECURITY MENTAL HLTH FAC DURING    POOL REC THERAPY.CONTACT GRADY CARTHON(352)375-8484   9-14-10-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, 
Must be Articulate and Reliable371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G9-30-21-14
Wanted: Head Lacrosse Coach for boys var-
sity at Gainesville High School. Playing exp. a must. Fax resume to C.J. Boulware: 352-955-7283. Info: 352-955-6707x289 /boulwarecj@gm.sbac.edu     9-30-11-20-14MARTIAL ARTS INSTRUCTOR WANTED!
For growing tkd school in Gainesville.Friendly, energetic person.Experience preferred.Leave message at (352)375-0700.     9-23-11-14-14
Doorstep Delivery seeks delivery drivers! 
Flexible schedule, perfect job for students looking for extra $. Very busy during game weekends! Must be 21+ with a clean driving record. Please call 352.224.3090 for more details.   9-21-11-10-14
Participants wanted for Perception Study. 
Ages 18-35, Native English Speakers with normal hearing. $10 compensation for partic-ipation. Contact Krista at spl.ufl@gmail.com. Study begins September 15th.   9-21-10-14
If you are age 18-30 with a sedentary to mod-
erately active lifestyle, Dr. Thomas Buford is conducting a study to investigate the poten-tial role of blood flow in the loss of muscle as we age. Participation in the study will require 5 visits to the clinical lab, medical history, blood and muscle tissue sample, physical and cognitive testing, MRI. Compensation of up to $250 in gift cards. Call the UF Institute on Aging, 352-273-5919.    9-22-11-10-14
RETAIL - THORNEBROOK CHOCOLATES
Looking for a sweet job? We are hiring PT staff at Thornebrook Chocolates! Must be available year-round. E-mail resume to Cathleen@ThornebrookChocolates.com.    9-19-11-7-14
 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 13
ACT Coordinator
Immediate full time or part time opening for a person with SAT/ACT tutoring background to help develop a new program at Gleim Publications. Great opportunity a "go getter". Must have strong written and verbal skills and a good attention to detail. Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com/employment    9-23-11-10-14.
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRINGGreat working environment. PT/FT positions available. Apply in person @ 2906 NW 13Tth St. 352-372-1226 sandysresale.com    9-26-11-10-14
Receptionist/file clerk/runner for busy law 
firm. Must be organized, motivated, profes-sional w/positive attitude, reliable transpor-tation, p/t. Resume, cover letter w/available days/times: hrmb1204@yahoo.com    9-14-2-14
Female Tutor/Sitter/Driver needed for 9 & 
13 yr old. 1 to 3 days/wk (MTWTh 3:15p to 8:15p) some late nights & Sundays. Math & computer skills. 15 mile commute. Contact 352-332-6465.     9-19-11-4-14Permanent part time for yard, housekeep-
ing, errands. Students only. Start $10/hr. Weekends required. Call Sebastian 352-591-3000.    9-19-11-4-14
Sleep Center Superstores is looking to fill 
FULL & PART time positions for SALES & DELIVERY help. Candidates must be de-pendable, honest, personable & motivated. We will work with obscure schedules. $7.31-$10.00 per hour depending on experience, plus incentives. Apply in person 4994 NW 39th Avenue Suite A Gainesville 32606. (352) 872-5668     9-20-11-5-14
ATTENTION SEDENTARY ADULTS (50+)!!
Need participants in a UF study assessing the accuracy of an advanced pedometer. $$$ provided!!! If interested, call 336-406-3706 or email FitBit10000@gmail.com    9-23-8-14
LAW CLERK-P/T. Law student, creative 
problem solver. Green conscious, book lover, passion for writing/knowledge/fitness/MMA. 626 NE 1st St, 32601. Send resume & writing sample to paulsrothstein@gmail.com    9-27-11-10-14Extended Day EnrichmentProgram Is Hiring Now
SCHOOL BOARD OF ALACHUA COUNTYAFTER SCHOOL PROGRAM-VARIOUS LOCATIONS-● ENERGETIC PEOPLE TO TEACH OUTDOOR GAMES - $10/hr - BA desired or successful exp. working w/ children.●   CREATIVE PEOPLE TO TEACH ARTS & CRAFTS - $10/hr - BA desired or successful exp. working w/ children.Hours required - M,T,Th,F - 1:45-5:30, Wed - 12:30-5:30 PMDRUG TESTING REQUIRED - BACKGROUND CHECK CONDUCTED - AA/EOEFor More Information Call: 352-955-7766.Apply online www.sbac.edu9-16-11-3-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
Finish Line Resume Services
Professional Quality Resumes
Affordable and Prompt
additional services upon request
www.finishlineresumeservices.com
9-14-11-10-15
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
Any job large or small
Mowing, raking, powerwashing, cleaning, etc. Call 352-231-1776    9-14-5-15OPERATION CATNIP
Thank you for being a part of the good news! 
Operation Catnip is on track to meet our goal of spaying/neutering 3,000 cats in 2011! 
We cannot reach this number without 
your continued support. We need you on September 18th. We need the unaltered free- roaming cats in your neighborhood brought to this  clinic for FREE spay/neuter surgery. Please call us at 352-380-0940 re-garding reservations and trap rental.   
If you are able to donate your time for this 
worthwhile cause, we'd greatly appreciate it! Sign up today by clicking on the link at the top left. If you find that you cannot spare any extra time, please make a tax deductible donation. While our services are offered to caregivers for FREE, realistically our cost is around $30 per cat.  Thank you and we hope to see you September 18th!    9-16-5-20
OPEN HOUSE
Thurs. Sept. 15th, 5-7pm
Demos, Prizes, Food, All are welcome!
352-331-5355 www.dermacaregainesville.com
9-15-11-4-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  Familiarize your-
self with the new GRE exam in this work-shop from the UF Teaching Center, Monday - Thursday, 9/19-29.  Verbal sessions on M & W, 9/19 & 9/21; Math on Thursday, 9/22 & 9/29.  All sessions take place from 5-7 p.m.  Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.    9-20-5-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
KANAPAHA
BOTANICAL GARDENS
HALF OFF WITH GATOR ONE CARD 
DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER.
Come and enjoy our beautiful gardens!
9-30-20-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique,KEY 
WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in.Clothes,Gifts,Art,Books,Music,Plants.. .Hwy.441S....15 min.that could change you.   10-26-31-21
Free Horse Boarding
I need someone to feed my two retired horses. In exchange I will provide free horse boarding - large 12 x 12 stalls, huge pasture and riding area - great set-up. Responsible person only. Emailarcherhomeforrent@gmail.com    9-15-11-2-24J & B Cleaning Services has a few openings for cleaning your home, condo, or apt.25 yrs. experienceExcellent References(386) 264-1576     9-16-11-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Annual Limplighter
Mobile Home
Community Garage Sale
Sept 17th, 9a-1p
BIG Picnic...free food...
100's of items for sale!
Door Prizes
5200 NE 29th Ave Gville
9-16-11-3-20
success because of his experience in the 
offense. 
Wenger played under Weis and offen-
sive line coach Frank Verducci at Notre Dame before coming to Florida.
“If he couldn’t play a down, he still 
would have helped us tremendously,” Weis said. “Even if he couldn’t physically hold up, his intangibles are through the roof.”
Red zone errors: Weis said the offense’s 
struggles in the red zone against UAB had more to do with miscommunication than mental errors, which leads Weis to believe it should be an easy fix.
“The things that happened in the red 
zone were very correctable issues,” Weis said. 
“It’d be one if you just got whooped 
or something like that, but they were just things that if we did better it would have been all touchdowns.”
The No. 16 Gators settled for field 
goals three times in the first half against UAB, and twice the offense’s promising possession fizzled inside the Blazers’ 10-yard line. 
Instead of the up-tempo pace of the 
first half, Weis decided to slow things down and pound the ball in the run game. In the second half, Florida scored two touchdowns on both its possessions in-side the UAB 20. 
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.
org.The unit has anchored a rushing attack 
averaging 248.5 yards per game, second 
best in the SEC behind Mississippi State.
Throughout the preseason, linemen 
talked about the group’s chemistry, about how they were a closer unit than the one that preceded them. 
Last year, the offensive line was a 
hodgepodge of seniors who were experts in Urban Meyer’s spread and underclass-men still feeling things out. 
This year, almost everyone learned of-
fensive coordinator Charlie Weis’ system together. 
The only potential hiccup came with 
the arrival of Dan Wenger, a sixth-year se-nior who transferred during the summer.
Wenger admitted Tuesday that he was 
initially worried he wouldn’t fit in with his younger teammates. Those concerns were erased when he presented an idea to the group: WWE Midnight Weightlifting. 
The linemen gathered at the weight 
room dressed as professional wrestlers. Ian Silberman was The Rock. Matt Patchan was The Undertaker. Someone else was Sting — face paint, black bat and all.
Wenger, who appeared to dress as Mick 
Foley, based on a photo uploaded on Twit-ter, said the event endeared him to the rest of the group, a group he said is as talented as any he has been a part of.“The athletes that our line has, it’s just 
unbelievable,” Wenger said. “When I came down here and saw it first hand, the first thought in my mind was, ‘These guys are freaks — but, in a good way.’”
Now, if only their quarterback would show them more love, or more food, not that they care.
“O-line is one of those positions,” cen-
ter Jonotthan Harrison said. “All work, no credit.” 
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.“I don’t like to treat any game 
different from one another,” Mus-
champ said Monday. 
“It’s the next one and therefore 
it’s the most important. It’s a great rivalry. It’s in the SEC East, and it’s a game we need to play well in, and win.
“It’s a very important game; 
we don’t need to tell our players that. They come to play at a place like Florida to play in a game like this.”
When asked about Tennessee, 
Florida’s players toted the same lines, for the most part.
Linebacker Lerentee McCray 
said “it’s just like another game,” adding that, “they’re the orange-and-white team, I just need to go out there and play them.”
“We treat every game the 
same,” defensive tackle Omar Hunter said. “It’s nameless, face-less opponents and we treat every game the same.”
“Every week: nameless, face-
less opponents,” offensive line-man Jon Halapio said. “We’re just going to prepare every week the same. Whoever we face, it’s the same.”
But Tennessee isn’t the sameNot the same as FAU or UAB, 
and certainly not the same whip-ping boy Florida has worked over the last six years.
The Vols have faces. They have 
names; names that should worry Muschamp and his boys. Names like Tyler Bray, Tauren Poole, Da’Rick Rogers and Justin Hunter — just to name a few. 
If Florida prepares for Ten-
nessee like “just another team,” Muschamp runs the risk of do-ing something Meyer never did at Florida: lose to Tennessee, and do it at home.
And that’s not the kind of im-
pression Coach Boom wants to leave on Gator Nation in his first year. 
If that happens, he and his 
team will remember Tennessee’s 
faces for years to come. 
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@
alligator.org.14, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida center Jonotthan Harrison and the Gators offensive line has yet to allow a sack 
through two games this season — only one of 10 teams in the nation to do so. 
RECRUITING
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
Nine-hundred twenty-five miles is a 
long way from home.
But for Florida 2012 oral commit Colin 
Thompson of Warminster, Pa., Gainesville 
is where he feels he will fit in best.
“It’s weird because I never thought I’d 
go there,” Thompson said. “I had extreme passion for the playbook, for coach [Will] Muschamp and other coaches. I wanted to go to the University of Florida, but some-thing was holding me back.”
So the 6-foot-5, 255-pound powerhouse 
tight end sat down with his parents and his coach after two unofficial visits. 
Then, on May 5, came the decision. In 
a recruiting realm in which every decision date is a hyped, planned-out production, Thompson laughs at the suggestion Cinco de Mayo was significant. 
“That was a weird coincidence,” he 
said. “I didn’t even know, to be honest.”
As a recruit in Will Muschamp’s first 
full class, Thompson is confident in his de-cision. 
“There’s only been positive repercus-
sions,” he said of his commitment. “I’m really happy I picked Florida.”
One beneficial result? Offensive coor -
dinator Charlie Weis doing away with the spread run during Urban Meyer’s tenure and implementing a traditional pro-style offense. Thompson has been told he will 
be used in some two tight end sets in addition to other options suitable for his threat as a downfield option, blocking prow-ess and ability to catch in 
backfield traffic.
“I want to try to go to 
a school where I can fit 
in,” he said. “Obviously with Charlie Weis going in there, I have a great chance to be successful.”
Between two busy game weekends for Archbishop Wood High — one of which was broadcast on ESPN2 — Thompson hasn’t had much time to watch the Gators; however, he said what he has seen in high-lights and heard from other sources has been impressive. 
“Their offense is doing a great job,” he 
said. “I look at the field now and I say, ‘Wow, that’s going to be me next year,’ or ‘I hope that’s going to be me next year.’ It’s a little nerve-wracking, but I’m up for the 
opportunity.”
Oral commitments are non-binding until a 
national letter of intent is signed on or after 
National Signing Day on Feb. 1.
Gators, Gainesville right fit for top-tier TE commit Thompson
Thompson
Late-night lift 
session helped Wenger bond with linemen 
0-LINE , from page 16T0M , from page 16
Weis not concerned with Week 2 red-zone woes
NOTEBOOK , from page 16 “If [Wenger] couldn’t play a 
down, he still would have helped us 
tremendously.”
Charlie Weis
UF offensive coordinator JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
Something was missing for UF vol-
leyball coach Mary Wise at the end of 
last weekend’s Nike Big Four Classic in Palo Alto, Calif.
She was not left wanting for experi-
ence — No. 7 Florida got its fill of elite competition, splitting five-set matches with No. 8 Texas and No. 2 Stanford.
Instead, she took issue with the 
event’s all-tournament team, which fea-tured setter Kelly Murphy and outside hitter Kristy Jaeckel, both of whom are seniors.
“Look at the play of (right-side hit-
ter) Tangerine Wiggs; she has just taken off,” Wise said. “I was disappointed she wasn’t named to the all-tournament team because her numbers this past weekend against both Texas and Stan-ford were ridiculous.”
Seeking recognition for an individual 
player this early in the season may seem out of place, but Wiggs’ recent perfor -
mance demands attention.
The junior was an offensive force on 
the West Coast, posting 31 total kills — 
a career-high 18 coming against Stanford — and a team-leading .456 hitting per -
centage at the event.
She also stepped up defensively, dou-
bling her season dig total from eight to 16 against the Longhorns and the Car -
dinal.
“[Murphy and Jaeckel] deserve to be 
on the all-tournament team, but we just wish there were more spots because I felt like [Wiggs] got a little bit slighted there,” Wise said.
While she was unable to crack the all-
tournament team, Wiggs has been a key cog in the Gators’ rotation, playing in each of the squad’s 33 sets this season.
Her constant presence in the lineup 
has yielded stellar numbers like 77 kills (just one fewer than the All-American Murphy) and a .378 hitting percentage, the second-best mark on the team.
Although Wiggs is enjoying success 
now, it did not always come so easy for the Seattle native.
“Tange used to be a hitter who had 
a very small hitting window — the ball had to be set just so for her to be suc-cessful,” Wise said. “Her window has expanded and now she has the ability to get kills off of different tempos and dif-ferent spots on the court.”
Wiggs’ success can be attributed to  
working with assistant coach Dave Boos on her footwork to the ball, Wise said.
Additionally, Wiggs increased her 
jump reach by five-and-a-half inches to a staggering mark of 10 feet, 6.5 inches since arriving in Gainesville, which has helped her at the net.
If her early efforts are any indication 
of how Wiggs will perform once South-eastern Conference play begins against Mississippi State on Friday, Florida should like its chances of winning a sec-ond consecutive league title.
“She is playing at such a high level 
with her contact point above the net,” Wise said. 
“She hits some shots that just can’t be 
defended by anybody.” WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Senior right-side hitter Tangerine Wiggs recorded 31 total kills during the 
weekend, including a career-high 18 in a five-set loss to Stanford. 
Wiggs emerging as offensive force for UF
LANDON WATNICK
Alligator Writer
Florida fell short of its goal Tuesday but left 
South Carolina with a sense of encouragement.
And a new school record.
The Gators shot even-par to close out their final 
round at the Cougar Classic in Hanahan, S.C., fin-ishing in third place at 856 (284-284-288, -8). Fresh-man Camilla Hedberg led UF with a score of 2-un-der 70 to tie for third place individually and walk away with the lowest tournament total in school history (71-67-70, -8). 
Hedberg’s total of 208 bests Jessica Yadloczky’s 
previous 54-hole school record of 209 at the 2009 UCF Challenge.
“I’m very happy for Camilla,” coach Jan Dowling 
said. “To come out in her first event at the Univer -
sity of Florida and shoot 8-under for three rounds is pretty impressive.” 
LSU won the tournament with a team score of 
848 (280-291-277, -16), capped by a dynamic 11-un-der third round. North Carolina finished in second place, three shots ahead of Florida. 
The Tigers’ Austin Ernst finished with the top 
individual score at 13-under par. 
Dowling said the Gators’ finish to the tourna-
ment was strong, despite the team dropping a spot on the leaderboard. 
“I’m happy with the way they pulled through 
[Tuesday],” she said. “It was a really solid tourna-ment and we had the chance to win, which was ex-actly what we were asking for. They did a great job this week with their consistent play.”
UF made 17 birdies on Tuesday and 54 in all. Senior Andrea Watts bounced back from a poor 
second round with three birdies and 12 pars to fin-ish at even-par. Dowling said she wasn’t too wor -
ried about Watts heading into the final round. 
“She worked on her golf swing after her round 
[Monday] and made a couple little adjustments,” Dowling said. “She really wanted to contribute to the team [Tuesday].”
The Gators’ next tournament is Sept. 23-25 at the 
Mason Rudolph Fall Preview hosted by Vanderbilt at the Legends Club, the location of the 2012 NCAA Championships. 
“We’re really excited for next [weekend],” Dowl-
ing said. “Our team should definitely build some confidence from this week we just had.”Gators, Hedberg 
finish in thirdWOMEn’S GOLF
UF VolleyballWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Submit Questions for Thursday’s Mailbag  
What’s the deal with Tennessee? Can the Gators 
stop UT’s receivers? Send us any questions for this week’s column on Twitter: @alligatorSportsSuspended Larson Accepts Deal
Gators forward Cody Larson, who was suspended indefinitely in April after 
being arrested on charges of criminal trespassing, accepted a deferred prosecution agreement Tuesday. He must complete 200 hours of community service and meet other requirements. Larson remains suspended. Quotable
“We like candy.” 
Jon Halapio  
UF offensive lineman
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gators offensive lineman Dan Wenger (56), a sixth-year senior who transferred from Notre Dame during 
the summer, is no longer worried about the concussions he suffered a year ago. Wenger has experience with offensive line coach Frank Verducci and coordinator Charlie Weis from his time with the Irish. 
�STATUS FOR SATURDAY 
STILL UNCERTAIN. 
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
Linebacker Dee Finley had his 
first appearance before a judge 
on Tuesday morning after he was arrested Monday on charges of driving on a suspended license and resisting arrest with violence, a third-degree felony. 
The State Attorney reduced 
Finley’s felony charge to a misde-meanor charge of resisting arrest without violence. 
Attorney Huntley Johnson is 
representing Finley.
“The State Attorney reviewed 
the case and decided to treat it as a misdemeanor,” Johnson told the Gainesville Sun. 
“I did not see resisting with 
violence in the description in the police report.”
Finley’s status for Saturday’s 
game against Tennessee is still unknown.
Wenger healthy: After dealing with concerns that he would be medically incapable of playing this season, offensive lineman Dan Wenger has started both games at left guard for Florida. 
The Fort Lauderdale St. Thom-
as Aquinas graduate said the concussions that kept him out last year and forced his transfer from Notre Dame are a thing of the past. 
“When we started hitting and 
put on pads and everything like that, that was the true test,” he said. 
“I was able to withstand work-
outs going through the summer with [strength] coach [Mickey Marotti] and those guys. The real test was in summer camp. Passed that with flying colors.”
In both wins to start the sea-
son, Wenger has earned coach Will Muschamp’s “Scrap Iron Award,” which is given to the best offensive lineman that week. 
Offensive coordinator Char -
lie Weis said Wenger has been instrumental to the line’s early Finley’s felony charge 
reduced to misdemeanor
See NOTeBOOk, p Age 14
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
John Brantley has taken plenty of criticism the last two 
years, but his gift-giving ability was never a point of con-
tention until Tuesday.
When asked how Florida’s redshirt senior quarterback 
rewards his offensive line for keeping him safe, Jon Hala-pio said Brantley gives out snacks — namely, Gummi Bears. A college student obviously doesn’t have the same budget as, say, Tom Brady, who once gave his linemen Audis; still, Brantley could step his game up. Or at least be a little more consistent.“He’s talked about it a lot, but he’s been real busy,” 
Halapio said of going out to dinner with his quarterback. “He says he’s real busy.”
The right guard started laughing, clearly intending no 
malice against his quarterback. But Halapio and the rest of the offensive line certainly deserve some form of appre-ciation from Brantley. Through two games, the Gators are one of 10 teams in the nation who have not surrendered a sack.
The play of Florida’s inexperienced offensive line was 
one of the team’s most pressing question marks entering this season. The doubts didn’t curb the group’s confi-dence, apparently. 
“Our goal is to not give up a sack,” Halapio said. 
“We’re trying to be the best offensive line this year.”
He did not clarify whether he meant best in the South-
eastern Conference or best in the nation. 
Either way, so far, so good. Offensive line protecting Brantley, has yet to allow a sack
See O-LiNe p Age 14
THe TOM gReeN SHOW
It’s almost The Third Saturday in Sep-
tember.
Don’t tell that to coach Will Mus-
champ and the rest of the Gators, though. 
To them, Tennessee is just another 
game.
To the Gators, the Vols are just “name-
less, faceless” opponents who happen to be Florida’s Southeastern Conference opener.
But they shouldn’t be, because Saturday marks the biggest game of Muschamp’s young head coaching career, and a game for which he will be judged heavily by Florida’s rabid fan base.
Urban Meyer made a point of hyping 
up Florida’s rivalry games, and then he made sure his team backed it up with its play on the field. 
Under Meyer, Florida went 17-2 against 
Tennessee, Georgia, Florida State and Mi-ami, including an impeccable 6-0 record against the Vols. Of those six wins, only one was decided by fewer than nine points — a one-point Florida vic-tory in 2006. 
The walls around 
Florida’s locker room used to be draped with motivational ploys during rivalry weeks. Quotes, photos, you name it. Meyer and his staff would blare “Rocky 
Top” during practices leading up to the Tennessee game.
But there is none of that is going on 
with Muschamp at the helm. 
Florida is treating Tennessee just like 
it did Florida Atlantic and UAB — teams that were referred to as “great” and as “good tests” by some Gators players, but in reality were anything but.
Whether he admits it or not, this one is huge for Muschamp
See TOM, p Age 14
Tom green
twitter: @tomas_verde“We’re trying to be the best offensive line this 
year.”
Jon Halapio
UF right guard