We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 85 TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  With the football 
season rapidly 
approaching, 
alligatorSports is 
previewing the top 
five issues facing 
the Gators this sea-
son. On tap today, 
we break down the 
offensive weapons.
See Story, Page 14.n Guess who 
came knocking on 
Gainesville’s door 
this weekend? A 
Jehovah’s Witness 
District Convention 
was held at the 
O’Dome. Turn to 
page 8 for the story.   COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Ohio’s Capitol building in Co-
lumbus will be a place for making laws and making drinks.
The Columbus Dispatch reports the Ohio Statehouse’s first 
full-service bar will open next month within an existing café. 
The bar on the building’s lower level will sell beer, wine and liquor.
The Ohio agency that oversees the Statehouse says the bar 
will have flat-screen televisions and will be open to the public at certain times. It also will host special events and what are de-scribed as “private happy hours.”
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS‘I’ll drink to that law’: Ohio Statehouse adds bar
Rain
94/75FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 14
n THE LAST DISPLAY WAS IN 
2008.
By BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
After a two-year drought, 
Gator Growl will explode back 
onto the scene with fireworks.  
The Nov . 4 show will bedazzle the sky for the first time since the Steve Miller Band played at Gator Growl 
in 2008.
Fireworks were added because 
there was a “lack of powerful en-
vironment during the show,” said 
Aaron Heger, the producer of Gator Growl.
Responses from a survey admin-
istered in spring show students and 
alumni want the fireworks back, he 
said.
“It’s the students’ show, The  
Gator Nation’s show, and we are trying to give them what they are 
asking for,” he said. The fireworks 
were originally taken away from 
Gator Growl because with the new multi-million-dollar video boards, 
“no parties felt comfortable with a fireworks presentation,” Heger said.  
In a backward twist, lack of Growl attendance in the past few years 
made the fireworks possible for this 
year’s upcoming program.
Without students and alumni 
filling the seats of Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium, it made it possible to place 
the stage in the 
student section 
of the stadium 
facing the alumni 
section,  where all 
attending Gator 
Growl will now 
sit.
Heger said 
he feels the stage 
change makes for a “more comfort-
able viewing environment.”
With the stage in the student sec-
tion and away from the new video 
boards, fireworks become less of a 
safety concern.
Gator Growl is looking into any Fireworks display
coming back to Gator Growl
Corey Alloe / Alligator
Bedazzled by the Boom
The City of Alachua hosts its annual Fourth of July Celebration at the Hal Brady Recreation 
Complex. The celebrations, which featured food, games and music drew a crowd of over 20,000 people. See photo story on page 3.
loCAl
By JoNNY SHIVER 
Alligator Contributing Writer
With UF’s Fanfares and Fireworks out 
of people’s Fourth of July plans, firework-
seekers had to turn elsewhere to celebrate America’s birthday.
In Williston, the sweet smell of kettle-
cooked popcorn pierced the country air Saturday as family and friends gathered to celebrate Independence Day.
Mary Kline, executive director of the 
Williston Area Chamber of Commerce and 2011 citizen of the year, said about 14,000 
people — 4,000 more than in 2010 — made 
the trek to the small-town Independence Day festival to take in live entertainment, food and — of course — a fireworks spec-tacle.
The festival kicked off with a parade of 
eight floats and more than 100 horses along 
the historic streets of downtown Williston, 
followed by the main event a few miles out of town at Williston Horseman’s Park. Entry to the event was free, but a $2 park-
ing donation was requested to benefit Wil-
liston High School’s JROTC program. 
Debra Jones, the Williston City Council 
vice president and organizer of the festival, said the event is designed to showcase the 
town to thousands of people who travel 
from the surrounding counties. It’s a task she’s tackled since America’s bicentennial in 1976, when the festival first began.
“I can practically do it with my eyes closed,” she said. 
As the sun began to set, a thundering 
vocal melody rumbled across the grounds as spectators stopped and turned their focus to the entertainment pavilion. Six-teen-year-old J.R. Hernandez had taken 
the stage along with Kendall Loveday, 17, 
both of Bell, Fla.
The deep voice unfitting of the boy on stage seemingly awakened the ghost of country music legend Johnny Cash as he performed songs such as Keith Urban’s 
“Tonight I Wanna Cry” and Josh Turner’s 
“Long Black Train.”
Hernandez said he started playing gui-
tar about four years ago, and he has only 
been singing for a little more than two 
years. He’s always known where he wants to go, though.
“It has always been my dream to get on 
a bus and go places,” he said. “I’d love to 
play in different places every day.”
He plans to perform at the University of 
Florida during the 2011 Florida 4-H Con-
gress event held July 25-29.Locals celebrate United States’ 235th birthdaySEE GR oWl, p AGE 5
SEE F oURTH, p AGE 5Heger
“It has always been my dream to 
get on a bus and go places. I’d 
love to play in different places 
every day.”
J.R. Hernandez
singerNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 85 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011
SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Rachel Rowan, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Clare Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.NATIONAL
Jail inmate: Lack of porn 
violates US Constitution
MOUNT CLEMENS, Mich. 
— A Michigan jail inmate says 
he’s being subjected to cruel and unusual punishment because he can’t have pornography.
In a handwritten lawsuit, 
21-year-old Kyle Richards claims his civil rights are being violated at the Macomb County Jail. Richards says denying his request for erotic material subjects him to a “poor standard of living” and “sexual and sensory deprivation.”
The Michigan Department 
of Corrections tells The Detroit News that prisons allow some pornographic material, though it’s banned at the jail. The American Civil Liberties Union says prisons have a lot of leeway.
Richards was charged with 
bank robbery after police followed a trail of snowy footprints and 
dropped money to his apartment 
from a bank robbery scene in Jan-uary in Fraser, north of Detroit.
Richards pleaded guilty. Sen-
tencing is Aug. 2.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Mass. tavern boss happy as 
clam with chowder title 
BOSTON — A restaurant 
celebrating its 25th anniversary 
this year also is celebrating the prestigious title of Boston’s Best Chowder.
More than 200 gallons of 
clam chowder were ladled out to thousands of people at a con-test called Chowderfest here on Sunday to determine who makes New England’s signature dish of 
clams, cream and potatoes the 
best.
The winner: Clancy’s Res-
taurant in Dennisport, on Cape Cod.
Clancy’s Restaurant and tav-
ern manager Joan Perez says a lot of passion and late-night hours by the “incredible” kitchen staff 
went into the chowder. She says 
the chowder title is especially dear to the Clancy’s staff be-cause owner Guy Erickson died in April.
The 30th annual Chowderfest 
was part of Boston Harborfest, a Fourth of July festival showcas-ing the city’s heritage. Six restau-rants competed.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSworld in it.
So, what he calls his “crazy de-
sire to do something ridiculous” became a yellow-tinged reality.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Baboon, possibly from 
amusement park, on run in New Jersey
JACKSON, N.J. — A baboon is 
on the loose in New Jersey.
Police say they received two 
calls Thursday afternoon from 
people who saw the monkey, and 
two more residents reported Fri-
day morning that a baboon was walking around in their neigh-borhoods. But despite an ongo-ing search of the areas, the elusive animal remained on the lam into Friday afternoon.
Authorities say the baboon 
may have escaped from the near -
by Six Flags Great Adventure’s Monkey Jungle. The park has 150 baboons.
But park officials are not posi-
tive one of their animals is miss-ing because they are not counted daily.
The Great Adventure baboons 
are fenced in and implanted with 
microchips. Park officials say no 
breaches were found in the fences around Monkey Jungle, and no signs of a potential escape have been found.
The first baboon sighting came 
Thursday, when a driver said the animal was near Interstate 195, and later that day a woman 
said a baboon was sitting on her 
back porch in Jackson. On Friday morning, two residents in devel-opments not far from the park reported a baboon was in their neighborhoods.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSBicyclists report getting 
smacked by angry bird 
PENDLETON, Ore. — Bi-
cyclists in eastern Oregon say 
they’re getting whacked on the head by an angry bird.
Riders in Pendleton, Ore., told 
the East Oregonian that a male hawk is dive-bombing them be-cause they’re too close to a nest he’s guarding in an old cotton-wood tree.
Bicyclist Mack Temple says 
the bird came in from behind like a fighter plane and whacked his helmet. Another rider, Charlie 
Newhouse, says the attack on his 
helmet was “like getting hit with a baseball bat.” He says the tal-ons went in through the helmet.
Bird-watchers say the large 
bird is a Swainson’s hawk. The riders say he’s been vigilant for a few nesting seasons, but hasn’t been as aggressive as this year.
Bird-watchers say the hawk 
will ease up once his brood learns to fly.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Pennsylvania man’s 
banana car peels through Flint, Michigan 
FLINT, Mich. — Talk about 
peeling out.
A Pennsylvania man cruised 
into Flint, Mich., this week in 
his giant, motorized banana and 
parked it on the bricks of Sag-
inaw Street.
Some looked confused. Many 
snapped pictures.
Banana car owner Steve 
Braithwaite tells The Flint Jour -
nal he had no idea how much he was going to enjoy people laugh-ing and smiling at him.
The Coopersburg, Pa., resident 
with Flint ties brought the former pickup truck back through the area, more than two years after buying the original vehicle from a junkyard in Genesee County’s Argentine Township.
Braithwaite decided one day 
he wanted to turn a Ford F-150 
into a banana and travel the THUNDER
STORMS
90/73THUNDER
STORMS
87/73THUNDER
STORMS
90/74THUNDER
STORMS
92/73RAIN
94/73
TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
The Bombs Bursting in Air
On the Fourth of July, ﬁ  reworks were ablaze as they wowed over 20,000 spectators at the 
Hal Brady Recreation Complex in Alachua County. Families, friends and loved ones lounged on blankets as they listened to musical acts and watched dancing groups until the ﬁ  reworks ﬁ  nale. Bottom right, ﬁ  reworks were also set off near Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Alex Catalano / Alligator Aundre Larrow / Alligator StaffMax Reed / Alligator Staff
Aundre Larrow / AlligatorMax Reed / Alligator Staff
Max Reed / Alligator StaffTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW YORK  — Hot dog eating champion Joey Chest-
nut estimates he eats about 20,000 calories in one shot at 
food competitions, but he says his doctor doesn’t mind.
“In the long run I’m really not consuming that many 
more calories than most people,” the four-time Nathan’s Famous International Hot Dog Eating Contest champion said Friday at an appearance ahead of the yearly Fourth of 
July eat-off. “I run. I really try to stay healthy. I count my 
calories rigorously when I’m not doing the contests.”
The San Jose, Calif., resident said that at 27, he’s young 
enough to get away with his competitive binging for a few more years. His doctor checks his blood work and has 
told him not to worry as long as he gives himself time to 
recover, doesn’t gain weight and doesn’t develop diabe-tes, Chestnut said.
Chestnut is 6’1” and weighs 218 pounds. A physically 
active man of his age, weight and height should be eating 3,200 calories a day to maintain his weight, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
In 2009, the contest’s reigning champion set a world 
record when he ate 68 hot dogs and buns in 10 minutes. 
Last year, he won with just 54 dogs.
On Friday, Chestnut gathered near New York’s City 
Hall with other eaters including the presumed female 
front-runner, 105-pound Sonya “The Black Widow” 
Thomas.
This is the first year Nathan’s is holding a separate eat-
off for women. Sponsor Pepto Bismol has created ornate 
championship belts for the winners — one in mustard yel-low and one in pepto pink.
Last year’s competition was overshadowed by the ar -
rest of previous six-time champion Takeru Kobayashi, who jumped on the stage after Chestnut’s victory. The 33-year-old from Japan has refused to sign a contract with Major League Eating and so was barred from competing.
This year, Kobayashi will hold his own unofficial event miles away on a Manhattan rooftop. He’ll watch the Na-than’s contest on TV and try to out-eat all the competi-tors.4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
The Impassable Bay Fire has burned 11,305 acres of woodlands in the 
Osceola National Forest. The fire is now about 80 percent contained.
AP Photo/AP Images for Pepto-Bismol
Sonya Thomas and Joey Chestnut, favorites to win this year’s Nathan’s Famous Fourth of July International Hot Dog 
Eating Contests, have a stare down after their weigh-ins during a ceremony at City Hall Park on Friday in New York.
n THOSE WITH ALLERGIES FEEL EFFECTS.
By SPENCER L. REEDER
Alligator Contributing Writer
For you, recent wildfire smoke may be generat-
ing coughing, sneezing and an unforgiving runny 
nose.  For Kelley Addis, it’s generating business.
Forget small talk about the weather. Addis’ cus-
tomers cut straight to the point.
“This smoke is so bad, huh?” begins a mucus-
laden customer. “Can you do something about my sinuses?”
Addis, a massage therapist at Chiropractic Solu-
tions, knows she will have a full day of facial mas-sages to help customers cope with sinus irritation.
Even her dog, Buddy, coughs and refuses to go 
outside.
But people with allergies aren’t the only ones 
facing difficulties.
Medical experts agree that wildfire smoke may 
also spark problems for those with lung condi-
tions.
“Anybody who has intrinsic lung disease could 
be affected,” said Dr. Mark Brantly from Shands 
HealthCare at UF.
This includes the near-10 percent of the U.S. 
population that has asthma, a disease that makes it difficult to breathe in certain situations.
Environmental factors are a major trigger for 
asthma attacks, Brantly said.  Smoke in the air can cause patients to experience these attacks more of-
ten.
“These individuals have a hypersensitivity to 
stimuli,” Brantly said. 
He said he would not be surprised to see an 
increase of patients experiencing effects from the 
smoke.Fortunately, Susan Nesbit, a nurse practitioner, 
has not seen a large increase in asthma patients at the UF Student Health Care Center.
“The good news is we haven’t seen asthmatics 
lining up,” Nesbit said. “People who have asthma know how to take care of themselves.”
She said asthmatics can usually treat their symp-
toms with inhalers.
Brantly said those with allergies, like Addis, 
also tend to be more susceptible to the increase in 
smoke.
“Every time I go outside, my allergies act up,”  
said Addis, who fights allergies like many of her 
customers. “It’s like a mask on my face.”
In fact, both Brantly and Nesbit encourage peo-
ple to avoid going outside when heavy amounts of smoke are in the air.
“Avoiding the smoke is one of 
the most important things,” Brantly 
added.
If you do have to go outside dur -
ing smoke flare-ups, Brantly recommended using 
nasal rinses or “neti pots,” a teapot-like device that helps flush out the sinuses.
He said face masks are typically ineffective, and 
people will achieve better results using high vol-umes of nasal rinses. 
Nesbit suggested checking the quality of air 
online to see what parts of the day might have a 
higher smoke content.
“Anything beyond clean air is not going to be 
good for you,” Nesbit said.
Although Brantly and Nesbit agree that mild 
smoke should not cause any long-term damage, 
Gainesville’s exposure to the wildfire smoke is a wait-and-see process. 
“Hopefully, we’ll get a good rain and wash it all 
down,” Brantly said.Smoke from wildfires 
plague residents’ health
NATIONAL
Hot dog champ eats 20K calories, says doctor approves NewsLocalThe Shane Wooten Band 
rocked the stage in a display 
of country music that brought 
the crowd to chants of “U.S.A.” 
and sing-alongs to original hits such as “Running With a Red-neck Crowd” and “Shovel’n 
Sunshine.”
After climbing up the coun-
try music charts in Florida and 
traveling around the country, Wooten said he likes to come 
back to his roots.
“I grew up around here,” 
he said. “I threw watermelons 
not far from here. It’s where I 
come from.”
Kline said the Shane Wooten 
Band was such a huge success 
last year that she had to have the group perform again this 
year. She said the band played 
for less than $1,000 — a fee she describes as barely enough to cover his travel costs.
“He does it out of the good-
ness of his heart,” she said.
Immediately following 
Wooten’s performance came the highlight of Independence 
Day celebrations across the 
nation: fireworks. 
The crowd jumped in sur -
prise as the first explosion lit 
up the night sky. Children 
distracted by short attention spans were quickly engulfed in the magic that danced above the trees.
 Screams of “that was loud” 
permeated every corner of the park as about 2,500 explosions rocked the warm summer sky — a show that costs about $8,500, Jones said.
Despite the large crowd and 
opportunity for the festival to go south, Pfc. James Tegart, 36, of the Williston Police Depart-ment, said there haven’t been any major problems in recent 
years.
“It’s advertised as a family 
event and it stays that way,” 
he said.TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Ani Goni-Lessan / Alligator File Photo
A Gator Growl light projection shines over the crowd during a previous homecoming celebration. The event, known as 
“the largest student-run pep rally in the world,” will have fireworks this year.
Maroon 5, Goo Goo Dolls are possible choices for music performance
hazardous areas and making sure they are taken care of, 
he said.
“We have never had any sorts of issues in the past, and 
we don’t expect to now,” said Brittany Roth, technical di-
rector of Gator Growl, about the fireworks.
That said, fireworks present a tricky environmental 
challenge for the area around the university. 
“Whether it’s the gunpowder used to set them off or 
the chemicals and metals that are in them, there is defi-nitely a lot of particulate that enters the atmosphere,” said 
Ashley Pennington, outreach coordinator at the UF Office of Sustainability . “Some of it gets left behind, falls on the 
ground, falls into water bodies, and parts of the actual fire-
works container that don’t necessarily burn up in the air 
could also end up in those spaces.”
By the end of Summer B, a band should be announced, 
said Cait Feroleto, director of public relations for Gator 
Growl. The band will most likely be a rock band, since the community would not want a hip-hop artist brought in, 
she said.
Heger said he would like most to bring in Maroon 5, 
though the Goo Goo Dolls would be a more likely choice.GROWL , from page 1Jonny Shiver / Alligator
Emmalynn McFadden, a 17-month-old from Hudson, Fla., plays a 
game at the Williston Independence Day Festival on Saturday.
About 2,500 explosions rocked the sky
FOURTH , from page 1
By KATIE EBERLY 
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Office of Risk Manage-
ment is working to make sure stu-
dents are prepared for this hurri-
cane season.
Kenneth Allen, the emergency 
management coordinator for the 
Office of Risk Management, said students and residents need to look at hurricane season as a big picture.
Every year, the office updates 
the university’s risk management 
website.
Part of the reason students 
must update their contact infor -
mation via ISIS, Allen said, is be-
cause the university needs to be knowledgeable about where stu-dents are living and how many students are on and off campus.
Each dorm has its own evacua-
tion plan that’s established by the Office of Risk Management. These 
plans are updated annually and 
are posted on the risk manage-ment website. 
For students living on and off 
campus, UF’s environmental and health website offers videos to students that discuss the need to make preparations for hurricane season.
Allen said students’ plans 
should include having enough supplies to last at least 72 hours and making sure all outside appli-ances are brought indoors. 
He said it’s always better to prepare, even if you don’t think you will be affected by a hurri-cane. 
“If you live in Florida, you 
have a hurricane problem,” Allen said. 
Peter Waylen, professor of 
geography at UF, said he is inter -
ested to see how this hurricane season will progress. 
 “We can have a busy tropi-
cal storm year and none of them come anywhere near Gainesville,” he said. “People can begin to think it is not a worry, and next season one just blows right through your 
house. Then you re-member it.” 
Allen said it is 
important for all 
on-campus students to learn their hurricane plan for their dorm. He said residents should look on the housing website to see the evacu-ation routes and make sure they 
are familiar with them 
Brooke Van de Houten, a UF 
sophomore and a  previous resi-
dent of Fletcher Hall, said she was never aware of the hurricane plan for her dorm.
“I don’t feel like I need to pre-
pare for hurricanes, because you know when they’re coming,” Van 
de Houten said.
On-campus students can find 
more information about hurri-
cane safety at http://housing.ufl.edu. Off-campus students can find more information at http://
www.cityofgainesville.org.UF makes plans for 
hurricane season
OnCampu s
“Whether it’s the gunpowder used to set 
them off or the chemicals and metals that 
are in them, there is definitely a lot of par -
ticulate that enters the atmosphere.”
Ashley Pennington
outreach coordinator at the UF Office of SustainabilityThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
88% YES
12% NO
184 TOTAL VOTESMonday’s question: Is Casey Anthony guilty?Today’s question: Will Congress reach a deal on the debt limit by  Aug.2?
U.S.needs a new red-headed stepchild
I love America, and so should you.
So many people are ungrateful for American oppor -
tunities, such as having the very opportunity to hate 
your own country if you so desire. Try that in Saudi Ara-
bia; I dare you.
Yes, there are problems with the United States, and 
there are things that must be fixed. But maybe the prob-lem isn’t only with government and infrastructure. Maybe it has to do with morale and mindset. Who is cheering us on? Definitely not other countries. And now not even our own citizens? 
In my opinion, one of the biggest problems is that it is 
no longer the 1980s.
Back then, we had a better opponent to hate: those god-
less, morally dead Soviets. It was like an international pay-per-view fight: democracy vs. communism, temperate climate vs. frozen tundra, Rocky Balboa vs. Ivan Drago.  They were just so easy to hate.
Now our major enemies are terrorist factions in the 
Middle East that are often centered on structured religious bias. 
Ugh.As for a suitable enemy, they simply aren’t relatable. 
Their accents simply aren’t as hilarious, and we have no major sports competition with them.
That is the root of our problems, I think.Part of it lies in the current nonexistence of American 
dominance in international sports. We can’t even beat Mexico in soccer.
Why don’t we form international competitions with the 
sports we are actually good at? I am begging for an Inter -
national Football League. Please, please, please!
I don’t expect the games to be entertaining. In fact,  I 
don’t want them to be. I just want them to effectively dem-onstrate our country’s dominance. 
I want games where America’s score reaches triple dig-
its —  in the championship finals. I want to see 10 points gained by forcing five safeties. 
Maybe it’s because we used to be 
the underdogs, and now we’re not. Now we’re a faltering power.
Well, since the economy is tank-
ing again, this is a good time. We can be underdogs once again.
And rather than being a faltering 
power, we can dip really quickly and then have a surge like the 1980s 
times two. 
In “Rocky IV ,” Dolph Lundgren became the culmina-
tion of all Soviet frustration in one Ivan Drago. 
Only Rocky Balboa could quell the anger of a crowd 
of Soviets and teach us all about the necessity of love and respect in warfare, directing us toward eventual peace as the result of a 15-round slugfest. 
Our generation’s version of terrorists couldn’t sit still 
in a room to watch a boxing match without strapping at least one or two children with bombs, enticing them with promises of virgins and cheesy poofs. 
So it comes down to honor. Whatever happened to hon-
orable combat? Scorpion shows Sub-Zero more respect. At 
least he waits to perform a demoralizing fatality on an op-
posing contestant until after an announcer declares, “Fin-ish him.”
 Nowadays, terrorists kidnap our innocent civilians (or 
news reporters) and torture them in ways  Mortal Kombat creators study for months to try to even generate a fraction of gore that severe. 
So, America, I love you to death, but I am putting you 
on the spot. We need to tone it down for a couple years so 
you can come back with a vengeance, ‘80s style. Oh, and 
we need to be better at international sports.
Either way, I really miss the Soviet Union.Shea Ford is a psychology senior at UF. His column appears 
on Tuesdays.Anyone can be a patriot 
American Atheists, a more-than-40-year-old organization that 
advocates for the civil liber -
ties of atheists and the com-
plete separation of church and 
state, flew aerial banners over several public locations across the country Monday that read phrases such as “God-LESS America” or “Atheism is Patriotic.”At beaches and parks in 26 states, people saw these words fly across the 
sky.
According to a spokesman 
for the organization who was 
quoted in several news ar -
ticles, the point was simple: Atheists can be proud patriots just as much as theists can.
News reports quoted pi-
lots who were afraid to fly the message because they feared for their lives or personal rela-
tionships. Some of them were 
atheists. 
If there is that much fear among atheists for expressing their beliefs, then they have a point. 
While this display of secu-
larism may upset many, part 
of America’s ideals rests in 
the freedom to believe — or not believe — any god. Athe-ism is just as much of a belief system as theism. Either way , religious beliefs have nothing to do with loyalty to one’s country.
However, we do think in-
sinuating that the idea of athe-ism is patriotic, as opposed to theism, is a bit ill-conceived. 
It’s fine for atheists to 
make a point about their loyalty to the country. But it doesn’t help to try to jack-hammer that into people in a bumper-sticker-slogan way 
— especially on the Fourth of 
July.
On a day when we should 
be remembering everything that unifies us, divisive issues should be put aside.Game Over
 Debt debate goes beyond 
now or next November 
On CBS’ “Face the Nation” this past Sunday, John Kasich, the Republican governor of Ohio, did some-thing that, for a politician on the Sunday political 
talk circuit, seems anathema: say something that not only sounds human but also makes sense. 
“At the end of the day,” Kasich said, “you look your -
self in the mirror, and you say to yourself, did I do what was right for families and for children, and if I paid a politi-cal price, so what?...There’s too much thinking about your party, yourself. It cannot be ideological....The people in Washington have got to put aside, you know, these, all this political consideration and start thinking about how they’re going to feel about themselves when they leave.”
What would drive a Republican governor in a critical 
election swing state that boasts the most powerful Republi-can lawmaker in Congress to make such a plea to the politi-cal parties to hold their cannon fire? He, like the rest of us, only has about 14.294 trillion reasons. That figure, of course, refers to the debt ceiling that  appears to be on the verge of caving us all in if Congress cannot reach a deal by Aug. 2.
Make no mistake, this isn’t like the NFL and (if you no-
ticed) NBA lockouts that infest the ESPN ticker; this is far, far more serious. This fiasco, if not solved, has the power to 
shred America’s pocketbook. For a nation that has already 
been battered by economic malaise, this could be the chair shot that leaves us down for the count. w
We now call upon those on Capitol Hill to not treat this 
as a political game of chicken as the livelihoods of millions of Americans hang in the balance. They are not simply rhe-torical pawns that can be moved around the board at will; they are the king you have been sworn to protect. To do oth-erwise would be, for the lack of a better word, chickenshit.
Shea Ford
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
My Thai friend Sith starts a lot of sentences with “May-
be America have, maybe America no have.” 
Usually , the subject was strange food. This time 
the subject was a drug.  
“Fin? I don’t know what you’re talking about. America 
might have it. I just don’t know what you mean,” I say .  “How do you get high with it?  Do you eat it, snort it or smoke it?”
“Same, same as pot. You smoke it.”“Tell me what it looks like, Sith.”“It’s black, very soft. You smoke little, you get too much 
dinky-dow.” 
“Does it make you pass out and dream?” “Yes. It number one high. Only Papa San smoke fin; young 
people no can do.”     
n n n
“Downtown, I’ll tell you where to go.” “Opium? No shit, Jose,” I say . “What’s it like?” “It’s out of sight. Try it. It cost two baht.” Fifty cents to experience a new high — something  I’ll never 
get to try in the States. No one from the old neighborhood ever smoked opium. Among my G.I. friends, only Jose seems to 
know anything about it. Fifty cents is a bargain. Why the hell 
not?
It’s the ”swinging 1960s” in the States, and only the young 
and hip smoke dope. 
Thailand’s just the opposite. Because Papa San’s too old to contribute to the family struc-
ture, he squats in a hooch and sells pot or opium. Besides eas-ing whatever ailments he might have accumulated over his long life, it brings in a few bucks. It’s a cheap, productive retire-ment system.
Nakhon Phanom looks like a town out of a Hollywood 
Western. Wooden, elevated sidewalks divide the unpaved 
clay streets from the dilapidated structures. The town reserves 
concrete-block construction for jewelry stores, tailors and teak shops.  
The trail that leads me to Papa San’s doorway is even dusti-
er and ruttier than the two-lane dirt road that leads to town. 
“You can’t miss the hooch,” Jose says. “It’s the only one on 
stilts, about 100 yards from the corner.”
n n n
I enter the hooch to find a toothless old man sitting, legs 
crossed, alone on the floor. 
“Pom ow soop fin,” I tell him in Thai.He smiles, gives a knowing nod, and then holds out his 
hand. I decorate his palm with the two baht tariff.  
A young girl enters the room, takes the 50 cents and re-turns with a bamboo bong. The old man breaks out a box of kitchen matches, then removes a small ball of aluminum foil. Once unfolded, it exposes a black orb the size of a wine cork. 
Papa San’s machete hacks off a small 
piece. He returns the remains to its womb.  He chops the black tar and plac-es a small portion into the bong’s bowl. His lips envelop the pipe. He inhales 
deeply . His neck strains from holding down the smoke. 
He passes the bong to me. I hold the kitchen match over the 
bowl and inhale. Four or five passes later a numbness engulfs my mind and body . I need to lie down. The sensation doesn’t 
overwhelm me, so I start to relax. I’m actually relieved it’s not 
as pleasurable as sex or my first time on a roller coaster, just another high, nothing dramatic. Eventually , I’m able to sit up. Papa San offers me another hit. I figure one or two more for the road.  
I sit facing him as he relights the bong. He takes a hit, but 
only a hint of smoke exits his mouth. He tries again. The opium really hits me now. I just want to lie back down. 
Then an epiphany: I’m two blocks from town. I’ll head for 
a massage parlor.  Lying naked while a pretty girl kneads my muscles seems like a pleasant way to experience the effects of opium. If I fall asleep, so what? I’ll give her $5 instead of the 
$2.50 it usually costs for the hour. When the massage is over, 
she’ll wake me, then give me my “happy ending.” Then she’ll powder me and open me an ice-cold beer. 
To me, everything he does seems contrived, foggy , almost as 
if he’s in slow motion.   
The old man lights the bowl again and exhales a whisper 
of smoke. His patience exhausted, he raises the bamboo pipe shoulder high and slams it loudly on the floor of the hut. The blow acts like a plunger that has unclogged a toilet as thou-
sands of giant red ants cascade out of the pipe and stampede 
across the floor.
They swarm my legs and ankles. I leap up howling. My 
ankles are on fire.
The old man is in the same predicament, but he acts like I’m 
nuts.The army of ants runs unrestrained over his feet, legs and onto his bare chest. The more I scream the harder he laughs. I flee to the street, but I can’t run.  
Instead, I walk and think. Was he laughing because he was 
high? Was he laughing at me?  Or did he find it absurd that white men are afraid of ants? America sent a half a million sol-diers to occupy a land that’s full of them.   
While walking the two blocks to the massage parlor, I obsess 
about Asia’s bugs. I’ve never seen anything like them. They are 
as big as Buicks.  
Rice bugs are the Thai version of great American cockroach-
es, but Christ are they enormous! Centipedes look like cigars, and the ants that just ran over me should have worn license 
plates. 
Yet through it all, the old man never moved.Sweat pours down my face as I slug along this unending 
path. Two short blocks to town, but my legs feel like I’m cross-
ing the Himalayas. 
An old woman parades past me shuffling alongside her 
yak. The few teeth she has are yellow from beetle nut. My eyes 
rivet to the yak.
I feel like I’m part of a bizarre painting.I must focus on the massage parlor’s location. If I miss the 
turn for town, I could be lost on this endless road for the rest of my life. 
I should see buildings when I turn left at the end of this 
road. What if I don’t?  Who’ll find me in the jungle?  I could die on this road.  
My head is killing me. This was a big mistake. The sun is 
brutal. Maybe I should hail it and ride to town.  
“Relax, stupid,” I tell myself, “the town’s nearby.” The sun’s heat makes my legs leaden. Where the f**k is this 
town?  What if I don’t see another one? 
I hope I didn’t walk the wrong way. If I did, I’ll never find 
it. I’ll just walk and walk. Just a few more steps, focus, concen-
trate, don’t miss the turn, be there, be there. 
There it is. Thank Christ. Calm down, asshole, you’ve been 
high before. Relax.  
Up this flight of stairs and all will be well.  Get a cold beer 
and spend some time indoors. I’ll be fine. Calm down, just up 
these stairs and open the door. 
A wave of cool air revives me.  Fans push stale air around the five or six couches that the 
girls lounge on. I need a beer, quick. 
Sitting on the leather sofa, slugging a cold Sing-Hai, I start 
to settle down. Wow, I was out of control. Was it the opium, the heat or a combination of both?  Those f*****g ants bummed me 
out. Never again combine sun and opium. Jose should have 
warned me. Next time, I go at night. 
I pick a girl and leave for her cubicle. As she leads me down 
the corridor, I hug my beer like a security blanket.  She opens the door. The 8-foot-by-6-foot room contains a massage table, a bathtub and a hook. I use the hook for my clothes, while she fills the tub. 
All is better. She rubs the soapy sponge across my body.  
I reflect on the last three hours. I’m mystified. I examine my feet, hands and thighs, no welts, no bites, no marks of any kind. Smooth as a marble statue.
 One of us, either the old man or me, is not quite as cool as 
I thought.      
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam veteran, former Bronx firefighter and 
pub and restaurant owner. O’Connor is currently a journalism ma-
jor at UF and a standup comic. The irreverent and acerbic O’Connor 
performs free standup around Gainesville.Lost in the sauce: getting bug-eyed in the opium junglesColumn
Bill O’Connor
letters@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011
n NEARLY 7,000 PEOPLE ATTENDED THE EVENT.
By CHRIS BOOGAR
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jehovah’s Witnesses probably didn’t show up on your 
doorstep this weekend.
Instead, they came together to discuss verses from the Bible, 
get baptized, enjoy full-costume dramas and some “Red Light, 
Green Light,” a  game the children played during a break as the Jehovah’s Witness District Convention hosted 6,905 people 
from 47 congregations at the O’Connell Center from Friday to 
Sunday.
Though UF officials either declined comment or didn’t have 
information about the economic impact, the city that surrounds it has embraced the religious convention, said Nick Belloit, a volunteer in news services from Jacksonville. 
The theme for the meeting was “Let God’s Kingdom Come,” 
which focused on aspects of the Lord’s Prayer. The theme was chosen by the international headquarters.
“Witnesses believe God’s Kingdom is a real government in 
Heaven,” Belloit said, “poised to take active control of Earth’s management.”
There is no clergy for Jehovah’s Witnesses, which allows for 
different viewpoints at meetings.
There were 47 speakers at the meeting, Belloit said. There was not a collection plate passed around at the Dis-
trict Convention and there never is, he said.
“The biggest thing we do is preach,” he said. It doesn’t matter, he added, if it is at a door or in front of 
thousands at a meeting.
“Volunteers and voluntary contributions are the two keys,” 
he said.
There were cardboard boxes set up for contributions, but 
admission was free.
The voluntary contributions helped to pay to rent out the 
O’Connell Center, and Jehovah’s Witness workers at the event 
were volunteers.
Thirty-two Jehovah’s Witnesses were baptized on Satur -
day’s portion of the event.
The baptism pool, which was about 10 feet by 
6 feet with seven stairs leading to the edge, was 
just deep enough for someone to help the person 
submerge in the water to complete the baptism.
To become baptized, Jehovah’s Witnesses must have knowl-
edge of what the Bible teaches, engage in public preaching and change their ways to act as the Bible says, Belloit said.
Those who wish to be baptized have the opportunity to do 
so three times a year, at the District Convention, the Circuit As-sembly or Special Assembly . 
Between May and September, there are 381 conventions 
held in 98 cities across America.
There will be another Jehovah’s Witness District Conven-
tion with the same theme beginning July 29 at the O’Connell 
Center. 
The events will have the same focus as this past weekend’s 
District Convention.
The focus of the July 29 session will be on Matthew 6:10 from the Bible, a declaration that God’s Kingdom is a real gov-ernment. 
The theme for July 30 will be “Keep On… Seeking First the 
Kingdom and His Righteousness,” based on Matthew 6:33.
The weekend will conclude July 31 with talks about 2 Peter 
1:11.
According to statistics provided by the Jehovah’s Witnesses, 
there are more than 7.5 million Jehovah’s Witnesses worldwide 
and an expected 1.7 million people in attendance for all of the 
District Conventions across the country . 
The official journal of Jehovah’s Witnesses is The Watch-
tower. It has a circulation of 42.1 million copies and is available in 188 languages, giving the people in more than 107,000 con-gregations the ability to read it.
Clinton McFadden, 55, a Jacksonville resident who has been 
a practicing Jehovah’s Witness for his whole life, said the con-vention was similar to his meetings he attends every week at 
his Kingdom Hall, which is the name the group uses to refer to 
its places of worship.
 The only difference here, he said, was having about 6,900 
people in attendance.
Jehovah’s Witnesses believe people do not go to hell, Mc-
Fadden said. He said it’s made up. 
The religious group also believes that 144,000 people will go 
to heaven, and the rest of humankind will live on Earth under the previously mentioned government.
But what is the biggest difference between Jehovah’s Wit-
ness and other religions, at least to McFadden?
“It’s the truth,” he said.Jehovah’s Witnesses knock on O’Dome’s doors
NewsLocalSports
TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL QUESTION TEAM USA BASKETBALL UPDATE POLL RESULTS
Previous question:  
Does a national cham -
pionship in baseball carry the same weight as one in football or basketball? Percent (Votes)
No 66% (81)
Yes 34% (41)
122 TOTAL VOTESn Gators sophomore forward/center Patric Young has scored 22 points 
and recorded 23 rebounds in three games at the FIBA U19 World Cham -
pionships. USA swept its first three games and advanced to the second round in the tournament after defeating Serbia 80-78 on Friday. Young had his top performance in the contest, notching 13 points along with seven boards. Harrison Diamond / Alligator File Photo
Although Florida has an abundance of highly touted recruits, the offense lacks a consistent playmaker. 
Deonte Thompson (right) was UF’s leading receiver last season but lost his starting job in the spring. 
n THIS IS THE FIRST 
INSTALLMENT OF A FIVE-PART SERIES PREVIEWING UF FOOTBALL NEXT SEASON.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
mwatts@alligator.org
 
Eds. Note — With practice set to get 
underway next month, we here at alliga-
torSports are going to preview five of the biggest issues facing the Gators and new 
coach Will Muschamp in 2011.
The new-look Florida foot-
ball team is littered with question 
marks.
There are issues on both the of-
fensive and defensive lines. The linebackers — apart from redshirt sophomore Jelani Jenkins — have little on-field experience. The sec-
ondary will be without vocal leader 
Ahmad Black and All-American Ja-noris Jenkins. 
And, of course, there’s that whole 
John Brantley thing. 
But before dissecting the signal 
caller situation, we must first take a look at the skill position players on offense — the playmakers. The receiver position is a mixed 
bag of talent originally recruited to play the spread, and if Brantley is going to succeed, he will need some serious help from some unproven sources. 
Redshirt juniors Omarius Hines 
and Frankie Hammond Jr. occupied the top spots on the depth chart Muschamp handed out during spring practice, but nothing is set in stone in the new scheme under of-fensive coordinator Charlie Weis. 
As it stands, the 
receiving corp lacks 
a legitimate weapon.
Redshirt senior 
Deonte Thompson 
led the Gators in most receiving cat-
egories last season, racking up 38 receptions for 570 yards. 
But he had only one touch-
down reception and struggled with 
dropped balls at times. 
Hines (20 catches, 281 yards) and 
Hammond (22 catches, 276 yards) 
showed spurts of promise but lacked consistency.
Redshirt sophomore Andre De-
bose was touted as the next Percy No. 5: Playmakers  
- Who will step up?
Welcome to the dead zone: 
America’s blackening hole
Like any good American this 
weekend, I drank Bud Light, shot bottle rockets at friends 
and saw “Transformers III.”
Michele Bachmann and her 
history-confused “Don’t Tread on Me” goons might never’ve been 
prouder. 
But see, at least for a brief mo-
ment, I had something to take 
my mind off the fact that we’re a sports-less country right now.
Welcome to America’s dark 
abyss. 
Unnecessary Spoiler Alert!!! Like 
“Dark of the Moon” — Michael 
Bay’s latest story-less action flick 
that’s two hours too long — the sports world is nearly devoid of any interesting plot to follow. 
With two lockouts, no Tiger, and 
college football almost two months away, the sports universe has skipped the dog days of summer and 
jumped right 
into Dante’s “Inferno.”  
Seriously, 
when Sports-Center is ob-sessing over 
Novak Djokovic eating grass and Skip Bayless is about to throw 
blows over Derek Jeter’s inclusion 
to the All-Star team, we’ve run out of things to talk about. 
I’m half-surprised Magic fans 
haven’t rioted yet after continu-ously being bludgeoned with lame planking photos from their fran-chise center, who refuses to use the 
time off to learn a drop step. 
Unfortunately, there will be no By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
When redshirt freshman Michael McFar -
land left UF on Friday, tight end depth be-
came an issue for the Gators. 
Florida will enter the 2011 season with 
just one true tight end (freshman A.C. Leon-
ard) on the roster. 
Jordan Reed, who played quarterback and 
tight end last season, and Gerald Christian, 
a former linebacker attempting to make the switch to the offensive side of the ball, add 
only minimal depth. 
Enter Kent Taylor, a 2012 Land O’ Lakes 
High prospect rated the No. 1 tight end in the 
country by Rivals.com.
He said UF’s depth issues would “abso-
lutely” sway his college decision, and ”that it’s definitely a good thing.”
Taylor caught 35 passes for 571 yards and nine touchdowns as a junior at Land O’ Lakes. His versatility and ability to stretch 
the field vertically has garnered him over 30 
offers. 
While he said he will not form a top five 
until he visits Georgia, LSU and Alabama, the 6-foot-
5, 220-pounder was clear 
about his feelings toward the Gators.
“I haven’t come out with 
my list of top schools yet, 
but I’m really high on Flor -
ida,” Taylor said. “Florida 
is one of my top schools. I will say that.”
Taylor will be at Friday Night Lights on 
July 22 and has been invited to play in the U.S. Army All-American Bowl. 
If he decides to orally commit to the Lack of depth entices top TESEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 16
SEE RECRUIT, PAGE 15
SEE JESSE, PAGE 15
Jesse Simonton
Simon Says
jsimonton@alligator.org
n Who will be Florida’s top playmaker for 
the 2011 season?Football
Taylor
TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Courtesy Photo
Kent Taylor, the 2012 No. 1 rated tight end in the country by Rivals.com, hasn’t yet narrowed his list of 30 of-
fers to a top five. But the Land O’ Lakes High standout said he is “really high on Florida.”
Local corner picks USF 
but waits for Gators offer 
Gators, he would be UF’s sec-
ond 2012 tight end commit along with fellow four-star Co-
lin Thompson.
Local CB a Bull, but keep-
ing options open: Attending 
school at nearby Gainesville 
High, Chris Bivins lives in the 
shadow of Ben Hill Griffin Sta-dium.
When he was a standout at 
Gators football camp in early 
June, it looked like he might 
be playing college ball a mere three-minute drive from the Hurricanes’ practice field.
“That definitely raised my 
stock with Florida,” he said. “They started talking to me a lot more.” But while his per -
formance at the camp may 
have raised his stock, it has 
yet to garner the 5-foot-11, 166-pound three-star corner an official offer from the Gators. 
So on June 25, Bivins be-
came one of South Florida’s eight 2012 oral commits while attending the school’s one-day “SuperBull” camp. He picked 
USF over Arkansas, Illinois 
and Kentucky.
He said he chose the Bulls 
because of his love for Tampa 
and the close relationship he 
has with USF’s coaching staff. South Florida was the first school to offer him a scholar -
ship.
While Bivins has seemingly 
made his decision, he said he still plans to take full advan-tage of his recruiting process.
“I’m a Bull right now,” the 
cornerback said. “But I’m not going to pass up any opportu-
nities.”
Bivins plans to take all of his 
official visits, which currently 
includes Arkansas, North Car -
olina State, Kentucky and Iowa 
State. 
As far as his hometown 
school, he said UF is definitely 
something he would consider 
if an offer comes, but that it’s 
an issue he’s “not going to get into” right now.
Bivins leaves today for Ni-
ke’s The Opening Showcase 
in Portland, Ore., where he’ll 
get a sample of the abundant cornerback crop that may be holding him back from getting 
a UF offer. “It’s stiff competi-
tion there right now,” he said of UF, which already has two cornerback oral commits. “If I get an offer, I get an offer. If I 
don’t, I don’t.”
Etc.: All signs seem to point to-
ward Melbourne Holy Trinity 
four-star safety Marcus Maye 
making an announcement in the near future. According to Bivins, Maye “really likes Flori-da,” and may be leaning toward choosing the Gators. … Bivins and a number of recruits will be torn this year between par -
ticipating in UF’s Friday Night Lights camp and ESPN Rise’s invitation-only Gridiron Kings 7-on-7 tournament, which runs from July 22-25. RECRUIT , from page 14
escape — at least not for another month or more. 
Aside from baseball — which I love, but most people 
find even more boring than “The Bachelorette” — there’s 
nothing to watch, and even less to talk about. 
Tour de Enhanced? I’ll pass. The only thing more mo-
notonous than watching cycling is watching people dis-
cuss cycling. 
Abby Wambach and the U.S.’ Women’s World Cup run 
is OK, but it doesn’t exactly get the jollies going. 
The bustling news of NHL free agency or NASCAR’s Chase? Uh, no. 
The WNBA? Just shoot me. There are literally three things other than baseball that 
are watchable right now and two — Copa América and the MLS — are considered so unpatriotic you can barely find them on cable, and one isn’t even a real sport. 
Thank God for “The Challenge: Rivals.” 
Honestly, I don’t know where else I’d fill my urge for 
über-competitive, juiced and liquored-up, crazy athletic 
people doing anything to earn a quick buck. 
We need new hope. We need old NFL reliables like fantasy football, “Hard 
Knocks” and frenzied free agency to re-emerge. The constant legal mumbo-jumbo in two of the world’s 
biggest sports has sucked the life out of people’s interest. America should never change the channel on sports like it 
should on the Casey Anthony trial, but it is. 
We’ve become a downtrodden sports world that des-
perately needs a Fifth Avenue face-lift. 
We are, as someone once famously wrote, “your tired, 
your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe 
free.”
Soon there may be light. Soon, the sports world may be-
come more optimistic. 
But right now, we just need some goddamn football soon.JESSE , from page 1416, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2011
Rainey, Demps facing transition in Gators’ new pro-style offense 
Harvin, but he has struggled with injuries and 
getting on the ﬁ  eld. The 5-foot-11, 180-pound receiver was impressive on special teams, re-turning two kickoffs for touchdowns last sea-son, but his role on offense is undeﬁ  ned and his ability to contribute is unproven.
  Four-star recruits Chris Dunkley and Java-
res McRoy were supposed to add depth, but 
both receivers transferred, depleting the reser-
voir even further.
  The name to watch is Quinton Dunbar.   After missing most of 2010 with a nagging 
hamstring injury, Dunbar started spring prac-tice at the bottom of the ranks.
 But with his ability to stretch the ﬁ  eld, the 6-foot-1 pass-catcher started the Orange and Blue Debut and reaped praise from Mus-champ and his fellow receivers.
  “Weis is always messing with me because 
when I ﬁ  rst started I was probably seventh on the depth chart,” Dunbar said after being tar-
geted on the game’s ﬁ  rst play . 
“Each and every day , I came out and made 
plays, and I gradually made my way to the 
top.”
  While Brantley appears to be entrenched 
at quarterback, the running back position ap-pears to be facing a similar fate as the receiv-ers. 
  Chris Rainey claims to be a new man, re-
freshed from time spent on the sidelines. From all accounts, Rainey had an excellent spring. And while Jeff Demps returns after missing spring practice running with the track and 
ﬁ  eld team, neither ﬁ  ts the mold of the pro-
style back Weis likes to employ . 
  Sophomore Mack Brown and junior Mike 
Gillislee were both banged up in the spring, but they best feature the attributes desired in a one- or two-back offense. 
  Freshman tight end A.C. Leonard is anoth-
er name to watch.   With uncertainties abound, it’s clear there 
are more questions than answers surrounding UF’s playmakers heading into this season. 
But one thing is undeniable, Brantley and 
the offense can’t succeed unless some un-knowns step into the spotlight. 
FOOTBALL , from page 14
Despite winning their first SEC division title 
in school history, the Gamecocks ended their 
2010 season poorly, suffering two embar -
rassing defeats – eventual national cham -
pion Auburn and Chick-fil-A Bowl opponent Florida State – by a combined 48 points. 
Off-season trouble continued as starting 
quarterback Stephen Garcia was suspended 
indefinitely for the fifth time since 2007. But 
even with these question marks, USC has 
two of the most talented players in the SEC 
in Marcus Lattimore and Alshon Jeffery. The 
Gamecocks return 81 percent of their rush -
ing yards, 100 percent of their passing yards 
and 80 percent of their receiving yards. On defense, eight of the squad’s top 10 tacklers return after notching wins over then-No. 1 
Alabama, Florida and Georgia in 2010.2011 OutlookNo. 9 - South Carolina
7 Offense
6 DefenseReturning Starters
RB Marcus Lattimore 
(249 carries, 1,197 yards, 17 TD)
WR Alshon Jeffery
(88 catches, 1,517 yds, 9 TD)
CB Stephon Gilmore  
(79 tackles, 3 interceptions)Lattimore
Players to Watch
Jeffery
Gilmore
Sept. 10 at Georgia – The Gamecocks can 
get an early leg up on the SEC East race with a win over the Bulldogs in just their second game of the season.Key Game2010: 9-5 (5-3 Southeastern Conference)No. 10 - Texas Christian
Not many teams could weather the loss of 26 
seniors – most notably four-year starting 
quarterback Andy Dalton – and still crack a top-10, but TCU has not been a normal pro-gram the last three seasons. Under coach Gary 
Patterson, the Horned Frogs have dominated 
their non-BCS conference foes. TCU proved it -
self versus the game’s top competition in last 
year’s 21-19 Rose Bowl victory over Wiscon -
sin. Redshirt sophomore quarterback Casey 
Pachall, who pushed Dalton for the starting 
job as a freshman in 2009, is set to lead a 
loaded backfield returning all three of last 
season’s leading rushers. On defense, All-American linebackers Tank Carder and Tan -
ner Brock should continue to thrive in their 
last full season of non-AQ competition before 
TCU jumps to the Big East in 2012.2011 Outlook
5 Offense
6 DefenseReturning Starters
RB Ed Wesley 
(166 carries, 1,078 yards, 11 TD)
LB Tank Carder 
(60 tackles, 3.5 sacks, 1 intercep -
tion)
LB Tanner Brock  
(106 tackles, 2 sacks, 2 fumble re -
coveries)Wesley
Players to Watch
Carder
Brock
Nov. 12 at Boise State – This will likely be the 
Horned Frogs’ only regular season game against a ranked opponent. They’ll need a big perfor -
mance on the Broncos’ blue turf to have a shot at a third-consecutive BCS bowl appearance.Key Game2010: 13-0 (8-0 Mountain West Conference)
John Boothe and Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff“Each and every day, I came out 
and made plays, and I gradually 
made my way to the top.”
Quinton Dunbar
UF ReceiveralligatorSports Staff
Preseason Top 10 
For the next ﬁ  ve issues, we’ll bring 
you our college football preseason 
rankings. First up, Texas Christian 
and reigning SEC Eastern Division champs South Carolina. 