We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 83 TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn TitleTown Gator 
Club held a kickball 
tournament to raise 
money for student 
scholarships. For 
the story, visit 
alligator.org. n  Recruits Mal -
colm Lewis and Tra -
cy Howard are high 
on UF’s wanted 
list for 2012. Both 
will attend Friday 
Night Lights on July 
22 and could be a 
package deal for 
the Gators.
See Story, Page 14.MIAMI (AP) — The U.S. Department of Labor is cracking 
down on the agricultural industry’s treatment of seasonal 
workers — starting in Florida’s green bean fields.
The Department’s Wage and Hour Division announced 
Monday that during March officials investigated complaints in Florida fields and packing houses near Homestead and so far have recovered more than $670,000 for nearly 600 work-ers. They’ve levied more than $128,000 in penalties and will continue investigations in Florida and along the East Coast.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFeds investigate East Coast farms, starting in Fla.
Thunder
storms
89/71FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 14
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org 
  
OMAHA, Neb. — Just call them the Cardiac ‘Cocks or Hou-
dini’s Heroes. 
South Carolina did it again. 
In an instant classic, the reigning national champions are 
just one win away from defending their title after stunning the Gators 2-1 in 11 innings Monday night in a thrilling Game 1 of the College World Series Finals. 
In a jam-packed TD Ameritrade Park, the Gamecocks (54-
15) escaped multiple contentious situations and later scored the winning run to take control of the best-of-three series. 
“Incredible college baseball game. Hudson Randall is very, 
very special,” USC coach Ray Tanner said. “We hung in there and eventually tied it up. We were able to get a couple of atom 
balls.”
In the top of the 11th inning, South Carolina’s injured first 
baseman Christian Walker singled with one out. The sopho-
more then stole second and scored on a wild play involving a pair of errors from UF catcher Mike Zunino and center fielder Bryson Smith. 
The Gators now must win two games to become the first 
SEC school to win a national championship in football, bas-’COCKS OUTLAST GATORSSOUTH CAROLINA 2 FLORIDA 1
Costly errors in late 
innings allow USC to slip past UF in opener
UF ADMINISTRATION
By JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writer
TAMPA — If UF officials had their way, 
they would have the ability to offer academic 
programs around the state — both in online 
and face-to-face formats. 
The Board of Governors, the governing 
body of the state’s universities, wishes to regu-late such an activity.
“As with most regulations,” said UF Pro-
vost Joe Glover, “the devil is in the details.”
At a meeting Thursday at the University of 
South Florida, board members and presidents 
from several state universities sounded off 
on a proposed regulation that would address universities setting up academic programs outside their geographical regions and, more specifically, in another university’s territory.
The proposed regions are based on the 
state’s economic development regions, which are outlined by Enterprise Florida, Florida’s 
official economic development organization.
 UF’s region consisting of 13 North Central 
Florida counties, including Alachua, Marion 
and Levy counties.
UF Trustee and Faculty Senate Chair Scott 
Nygren said in his view, the university’s mis-sion is to serve the state as a whole.
“Our region is Florida,” he said. The board agreed to let a task force, which 
includes Glover, work on the details.
The regulation was not up for approval, 
but the board voted to publicly notice the proposal, or open the regulation up for public comment prior to considering it for a vote.
UF officials, some other university presi-
dents and even some board members balked 
at the move, worrying it would send a public mes-
sage that the regulation was 
speeding to approval faster than it should, especially as much of the details may change by the final draft.
“We’re going to create 
a lot of angst in the dia-logue,” said  board member 
Tico Perez.
UF President Bernie Machen said there 
were many issues to iron out in the regula-tion’s language before opening the proposal up to public comment.“We have not had a chance, in the very 
complicated areas, to have a real dialogue,” he said.
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences 
has had outposts in all of Florida’s 67 coun-
ties for years — a situation UF officials believe 
would raise issues under a new regulation. And with UF’s continued pursuit to expand its distance education programs, officials feel the regulation should properly address online classes.
Under the proposed regulation, a univer -
sity looking to establish an academic program outside its region would have to seek approv-
al from the local university’s president in the 
outside region. In the case of a disagreement, Officials oppose confining UF to local counties
Machen
SEE BOARD, p AGE 8Ap photo
South Carolina and closer Matt Price defeated Florida 2-1 in Monday’s College World Series Finals opener. The 
Gators blew multiple late chances, eventually falling in the 11th inning after two costly throwing errors.
 SEE CWS, p AGE 16News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 83 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Brittany Fink, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Clare Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
THUNDER
STORMS
93/74THUNDER
STORMS
90/72THUNDER
STORMS
88/72THUNDER
STORMS
92/73THUNDER
STORMS
89/71
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.NATIONAL
Chinese crested-Chihuahua 
mix deemed ‘ugliest dog’
PETALUMA, Calif. — Yoda’s 
short tufts of hair, protruding 
tongue, and long, seemingly 
hairless legs were enough to 
earn it the World’s Ugliest Dog title at a Northern California fair.
The 14-year-old Chinese 
crested and Chihuahua mix won the honor Friday night at the 23rd-annual contest at the Sonoma Marin Fair.
Owner Terry Schumacher of 
Hanford, Calif. says the 2-pound dog has come a long way since she was found abandoned 
behind an apartment build-
ing. Schumacher says she first thought the pooch was a rat.
Yoda’s distinction comes a 
year after a one-eyed Chihuahua 
named Princess Abby claimed 
victory. A pedigree Chinese crested won in 2008 and another Chinese crested and Chihuahua 
mix was the ugliest in 2007.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Colo. police nab man ac -
cused of hiding in toilet
BOULDER, Colo. — Police 
in Colorado have arrested a 
30-year-old man accused of hid-
ing in the tank of a portable toi-
let at a yoga festival last week.
Kim Kobel of Boulder police 
says Luke Ivan Chrisco was ar -
rested during an unrelated pan-handling investigation Thurs-day. Police say an officer noticed his resemblance to the toilet suspect, and Chrisco was taken 
into custody after he was inter -
viewed by a Boulder detective.
Police believe he was the man 
discovered in the toilet at the festival in Boulder by a woman 
who lifted the lid. A man who checked said he saw someone covered in a tarp inside.
A festival security officer 
says he chased a man who even-tually emerged, but the suspect slipped away. The man was cov-ered in human waste.
Chrisco faces misdemeanor 
charges of unlawful sexual con-tact and criminal invasion of privacy.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Hacked road sign warns of 
zombies in northern Ky.
FLORENCE, Ky. — The zom-Joan Anderson says her hus-
band had gone searching for the 
ring in 1961 near the spot where it was found earlier this month.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Fake scholarship prank 
draws laughs, scolding
BANGOR, Pa. — It turns 
out a Pennsylvania high school 
graduate’s scholarship was just 
a load of bull.
Bangor Area High School 
grad Ethan Rosenberry says he 
invented an award when the 
guidance office passed around 
forms to seniors to report any awards they had received. His made-up award was named for Jack Hitte (middle initial: S).
Rosenberry tells The Express-
Times of Easton that he wanted acknowledgment that he’d won jack, er, squat.
Rosenberry says the school’s 
administration wasn’t too pleased when the award’s name was read aloud by the principal. But he still got his diploma after 
a stern talking-to.
The district says it’s looking 
into the prank but declined fur -
ther comment.
Rosenberry is headed to Slip-
pery Rock University in the fall 
to study political science.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CORRECTION
The June 16th edition of The 
Alligator incorrectly reported 
the AnatOnMe project as de-
veloping an x-ray device. The AnatOnMe device is a light projection system that can proj-
ect pre-loaded images onto the 
surface of the skin, and there is not x-ray technology involved in the device.bie menace has once again found its way onto a highway sign.
After pranksters switched 
the message on an electronic road sign, motorists in north-ern Kentucky were warned 
this week to watch for zom-
bies along the Interstate 71-75 corridor.
The usual message about 
upcoming roadwork was 
changed to: “Nightly lane clo-
sures, zombies ahead.”
Kentucky Transportation 
Cabinet spokeswoman Nancy 
Wood said the Transporta-
tion Cabinet learned about the new message midmorning Thursday and turned it off un-til it can be fixed. Wood said 
officials are not amused by the 
prank.
The gag was hardly origi-
nal. There was a spate of such 
pranks in 2009 in Florida, 
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Il-linois and Texas. Last March, someone posted a zombie warning on a highway sign in 
South Carolina.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Class ring is returned 50 
years after it was lost
CANTON, Ga. — A 13-year-
old boy has found a high 
school class ring in the Geor -
gia soil and tracked down the widow of the man who lost it 50 years ago.
Kelvin Foskey Jr. was play-
ing basketball when he spied the ring and scratched it from the earth, his father Kelvin Foskey told the Cherokee Tri-bune.
The two decided to search 
for its owner. They found Rob-ert Anderson in a 1960 Dublin High School yearbook, but the 
man had since died and rela-
tives led them to his widow, Joan Anderson of Canton.
She was thrilled to have the 
ring back.
“It’s just a blessing to make 
someone that happy,” Kelvin Foskey said.
TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
n DISCOUNT DAY WILL BE AUG. 22
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
Students will once again be able to catch 
a break on their textbook expenses for one 
day this fall.
Student Government is partnering with 
the UF Bookstore in the Reitz Union to bring back Discount Day, or Sales Tax Relief Day.
Students will be exempt from paying the 
sales tax on textbooks bought in store Aug. 22.
This will be the third Sales Tax Relief Day 
in three years, and Student Body President Ben Meyers said he really wants to see stu-dents take advantage of the discount.
“We’re really trying to boost it up this 
year,” he said. The main goal right now is to make stu-
dents aware of the event.
Meyers said the discount applies only on Aug. 22 and only in-store. While it only 
applies to textbooks, he said he is working 
with Reitz Union Business Services and the UF Bookstore to extend the exemption to school supplies. 
The day would not be possible without 
the help of the two groups, he said.
“They’ve been extremely helpful, and 
they definitely realize what a service it is for students,” Meyers said.Bookstore to give sales tax relief day in August
“They’ve been extremely helpful, 
and they definitely realize what a 
service it is for students.”
Ben Meyers
Student Body President
By BENJAMIN S. BRASCH 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Empty stomachs, elbow-to-
elbow run-ins and bumper-to-
bumper traffic at the Rawlings 
Hall bus stop could disappear 
come fall.
UF’s Transportation and Park-
ing Services department has de-cided to increase the size of the Rawlings bus stop located on Newell Drive by 50 percent, said Scott Fox, director of the transpor -
tation and parking services at UF.  
The Student Traffic Court will 
be paying $250,000 for the ex-pansion with the funds gained through parking tickets. 
“It identified itself as a need 
for expansion,” Fox said.  
The bus stop now has two bus 
ports, and the expansion will add another covered bus port to in-crease the flow of both road and foot traffic. 
Fox said during construction, 
all buses will use the unaffected part of the port so as to not shut down the bus 
stop totally. 
If for some reason the bus sys-
tem is being impeded by the con-struction, the contingency plan is to have buses turn left onto Mc-Carty Drive and immediately stop at McCarty Hall D. 
The plan was used 10 years ago 
when construction was last done on the bus stop at Rawlings Hall. 
“We already have a natural re-
duction in riders,” Fox said. “That makes us think that we won’t need that contingency plan.” 
The construction is scheduled 
to be done by Aug. 1. 
In addition to a new-and-im-
proved spot to wait for the bus, Rawlings bus stop patrons can now grab a bite to eat during their wait. 
“This is a very high-traffic area 
that we would like to offer dining services to UF students, faculty and staff,” said Jill Rodriguez, marketing manager at Gator Din-ing Services, in an email. The un-named food site will offer grab-and-go breakfast, lunch, dinner, beverage, snack and sandwich options, and its prices will be competitive with off-campus lo-cations, she said.
Rawlings bus stop will get facelift, grab-and-go dining
Expansion expected to lessen traffic 
NewsLocalBy ERIN JESTER 
and MICHAEL SYKES
Alligator Writers
After all the acceptance letters, 
grad parties and tearful goodbyes set 
to the tune of Vitamin C’s “Gradua-
tion (Friends Forever),” UF’s new-
est additions to the student body had one final step to make on their road to officially becoming Gators: going to class. 
For many returning UF students, 
the first day of Summer B is just an-other excuse to procrastinate and drink; “real school” doesn’t start 
for a few days. For freshmen, how-
ever, the first day can fall anywhere 
between adventure and complete chaos.
On her very first day of college, 
18-year-old Valeria Nasiri woke up 
at 7 a.m., as usual. 
She gave herself plenty of time to 
get to her first class in case she got 
lost, which she did.
But even after a minor detour 
around the Reitz Union, Nasiri made it to her macroecononom-ics class in Bryan Hall with time to spare.
She wasn’t nervous about start-
ing college, unlike her parents, who drove her up from their home in West Palm Beach on Friday.
As the professor approached the 
lectern, Nasiri pulled from her back-
pack a shiny new three-ring binder, 
into which she inserted the class syllabus after dutifully highlighting all important information and scrib-bling a few notes into the margin.
She is excited about the class, 
since she’s an economics major, but doesn’t much like the idea of school during the summer.
“My train of thought when I 
was applying was, if I came early , I would be more motivated,” she said. “Then when I graduated, I thought, ‘Ah, should’ve taken that vacation.’”On the way to her only other 
class, the perennially popular Bugs and People, Nasiri spotted the Krishna Lunch carts on the Plaza of the Americas and got curious. 
Before gobbling down her spin-
ach and rice, she  briefly struggled with her bicycle lock at Turlington Hall.
“Nobody will steal my bike 
in broad daylight, will they?”she asked, fumbling with the lock.
After class, Nasiri stood staring 
at a wall of rain separating her from her bicycle and sighed.
Her first day of college classes 
had been just fine, but the ride back to Springs Residential Complex would not be pleasant.
But rainy season isn’t such a big 
deal for natives. The hardest part about summer classes?“Not slacking off, and getting 
A’s,” Nasiri said.
Alyssa Allen, 18, a freshman at 
UF, said she’s ready for the chal-lenge. Even though class sizes exceed 300 students, heavy work-loads are given in weed-out courses to push teetering minds over the edge and high school social butter -
flies won’t know who to eat lunch with or if they’ll make friends, Al-len thinks the class of 2015 will be okay.
She said even though college can 
be overwhelming, excitement out-weighs the fear, and that’s what col-lege students should focus on.
 Her advice for those who are 
having a difficult time adjusting: “Try not to think how scary it can be.”
But not every student will have 
the same positive outlook as Allen, and for those who are having a dif-ficult time adjusting to the stress, there is help available at the UF Counseling and Wellness Center. 
Jordan Stewart, 22, a UF graduate 
and a Reitz Union information desk assistant, said students are becom-ing more mature and up to the tasks of college and adulthood. Students might get lost and walk around with their heads in a campus map, or freak out about an assignment that’s more difficult to understand 
than the Communist Manifesto, but 
they end up okay, she said.
“Everyone’s gonna take that 
hard class that’s gonna kick them in 
the butt,” she said, “but you find a way to push through.”4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator 
Shannan Garrison, a biology freshman, left, and Addie Kraemer, a civil engineering freshman, right, study outside of Subway in the Reitz Union on Monday evening.
CAMpuS
They have arrived: Newly-minted freshmen invade UF
By CHRIS BOOGAR
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is a part of history again.
A new study reports that a fossil found in V ero Beach in 2009 
is a 13,000-year-old bone with an incision of a mammoth or mast-odon. The lead author is Barbara Purdy, professor emerita of an-thropology at UF.
“This probably doesn’t mean a thing to a lot of people,” Purdy 
said, “but it is quite something.”
The bone, which is probably from a mastodon, mammoth or 
giant sloth, is the oldest piece of artwork ever discovered in the Western Hemisphere, she said. 
The bone did not appear to be a hoax because 
of  the way it had weathered, and there were no indicators that metal instruments, which did not exist during that period, had ever touched the 
bone. 
Though she said she still has some doubt, because there aren’t 
any other discoveries like this, Purdy said she is excited. 
The Smithsonian Institute believes the discovery is legitimate. “We say it’s 13,000 years old,” said Dennis Stanford, an anthro-
pologist at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History . “That’s a minimum date.” Stanford is a co-author on the report.
“I think it’s a significant find that shows us the artistic complex-
ity for the first Floridians,” Stanford said. 
The fossil has been exhibited since November in the Florida 
Museum of Natural History.UF: Fossil could be 
13,000 years old STUDENTS COMPLAINTS 
SPURRED INVESTIGATION.
By JONNY SHIVER
Alligator Contributing Writer
If you’ve ever hailed a taxi in 
Gainesville, there’s a chance you 
were overcharged.
According to student com-
plaints dating back as early as 
2009, some cab drivers took ad-vantage of students by charging 
rates of $20-plus per person to 
travel less than two miles.
In an effort to resolve the issue, 
city commissioners voted unani-
mously to require taxi companies 
to display the newly drafted Taxi Service Bill of Rights in all cabs by Aug. 1. 
The bill outlines the rights of 
both the driver and the passenger, City Commissioner Jeanna Mast-rodicasa said.
It also authorizes drivers to 
charge flat rates,  a one-size-fits-all standard pricing scale formerly reserved for special events such as Gator football games, or run the 
meter. 
The passenger now has a right 
— and the responsibility — to 
know what the fare will be before 
he or she gets in.
Mastrodicasa said the deci-sion of which rate to charge is ultimately up to the passenger, 
and students should negotiate the price before they get in.
Flat rates may offer a cheaper 
alternative in some instances, said Ed Ricci, owner of AAA Taxi. 
He said sometimes flat rates 
for traveling from midtown to downtown would save students 
a buck or two compared with the 
meter price.
But after an undercover sting 
operation in De-
cember, which 
caught 11 of 19 drivers not run-ning a meter and resulted 
in a landslide of allegations and arguments, Ricci said he 
stopped charging a flat rate, even though it is now an accepted prac-tice. 
“I’m out here to stay in busi-
ness, not to create a problem for 
the students or the police,” he 
said.
When it comes to a safe ride for 
students, the best deal for students 
depends on how far the trip is.
Jumping in a cab will cost you 
up to $3.50 just to sit inside the vehicle. Tack on more charges for idle time, price increases for as 
little as every one-tenth mile, and additional fees per person, and it becomes clear just how expensive 
a short trip can become.
There are other options, 
though, such as using UF’s Stu-
dent Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol, RTS’ Later Gator, or ZIPcarts — an 
environmentally friendly electric 
cart service which charges only $3 per person or $10 for five people to travel anywhere within its pe-
rimeter.
According to a city commission 
document that details taxi rates, 
Unimet Taxicab Company charges a minimum fare of $10, regardless 
of the distance traveled.  
Student Body President Ben 
Meyers said a lack of transparen-
cy was a major problem and some 
cab drivers are “shady,” adding on 
extra fees and taking advantage of students. 
He said the new ordinance is a 
positive development and the bill 
of rights is an important step to re-
solving the issue. 
Mastrodicasa said the new or -
dinance is more fair and transpar -
ent for students.
“I don’t think it’s perfect, but 
it’s the best we can do,” she said.City moves to curb gouging taxis
Mastrodicasa
UFResearc hBy BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF announced a new addition 
Monday to Innovation Square, 
Gainesville’s under-construction, multi-million-dollar research and creativity hub. The addition will be 
a Business Improvement District, 
which is expected to become an integral part of bringing local busi-nesses into the fold.
Bringing businesses to the cen-
ter rings true to values that Innova-tion Square stands for, said David Green, senior urban designer at Perkins and Will, the firm that de-
signed the center. 
The center will act essentially as 
an incubator for entrepreneurs and 
provide support as they develop 
their ideas in Gainesville.
The center does not require its 
businesses to be university-affili-
ated.
“This project will be advertised 
and have notoriety all over the world where research is done,” Green said.
The district is planned to be east 
of the Innovation Square’s Core Dis-
trict, between Southwest 10th Street 
and Northwest 2nd Street. Though it is not yet known how large the district will be, it falls within Inno-vation Square’s 40 acres and will 
house more than 100 entrepreneurs 
in residence-hall-style housing. 
UF averages 13 spinoff compa-
nies a year from its students, with 
108 businesses created in total, said 
Ed Poppell, UF vice president of business affairs. There will be five entry-level jobs created by the cen-ter for every one individual with a 
Ph.D., Green said. 
Master leases will be offered by 
UF under tax rolls, which will bring 
new jobs and expand businesses, 
Poppell said. 
The research community at UF 
helped lay the foundation for In-
novation Square to grow on, Green said.
“The Business Improvement 
District helps create beneficial district-wide projects and helps en-sure a high level of quality for indi-
vidual development,” Green said.
The street grid built decades 
ago will act as the framework for 
development for the entire project, he said. 
The project will utilize the natu-
ral environment of Gainesville to create a Greenway, which will be used in environmental science re-
search for the center, he said.
The Greenway will go under 
construction quickly to increase connectivity. It is public, like the roads running through the entire 
center. 
The project will be privately 
paid for, without any tax dollars, he said.
Green added that after sitting in 
a room for an entire day meeting with Gainesville Regional Utili-ties, he and others at the meeting solved many of the infrastructure 
issues that faced the center, like 
how to provide water and electric-ity, as well as transportation, to the center.TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Special to the Alligator / University Relations
Sample photos display buildings and relaxation areas that will be in Innovation Square, a multi-million-dol-
lar research and creativity hub. It will be buit between Southwest 10th Street and Northwest 2nd Street.
ON CAMPUSUF, city collaborate on new business district in downtownBy SAMANTHA DEAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Reitz Union’s burger options are changing once 
again.
Cheeburger Cheeburger Express is vacating the spot 
previously occupied by Wendy’s and paving the way for 
Burger King, which is set to open in fall 2011.
According to April 2011 meeting minutes from the 
Food Service Advisory Committee, the location failed to meet financial expectations and was closed.
Gator Dining Services acknowledged that 
the chain’s pricing may be an issue for stu-
dents. 
The chain was trying to make adjustments 
to meet the needs of students, according to the commit-
tee’s Sept. 2009 meeting minutes.
UF’s Cheeburger Cheeburger was the first to have ap-
peared on a college campus.
Some students were happy to see it go.Timothy Gaffud, 21, said he never once ate at Chee-
burger Cheeburger because he felt it was too expensive. 
“As college students, how can you put gourmet menus 
in place of dollar menus?” he said.
Gaffud is not much of a fan of Burger King either, say-
ing he felt their food is “nasty.”  
“It’s the lesser of two evils,” he said. All attempts to reach Gator Dining Services were unan-
swered by press time.Burger King 
comes to the 
Reitz Unionn THEY ENJOY LARGEST 
MAJORITY SINCE 2009
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
There’s not a lot of debate go-
ing on in UF’s Student Senate these days. 
That’s probably because there 
are not a whole lot of people to 
argue with. 
Senate is currently dominated 
by one party —the Unite Party — 
which is enjoying the largest ma-
jority since early 2009.
Due to replacement senators 
being named, it’s tough to deter -
mine the official number of Unite 
senators versus the number of in-
dependent senators, Senate Presi-
dent Micah Lewis said. However, 
he said this is the largest majority he has seen during his time in Re-itz Union Room 282. 
It is also the most peaceful.
Senators joked that a passed 
resolution praising student orga-
nization Islam On Campus cre-ated the most heated debate they 
have seen in a long time. 
The senate’s minority is in dire 
straits. 
Not only did the party get 
shellacked in the spring 2011 elec-tions; it was also found to have 
committed election violations 
and was banned from using the Progress Party name for the fall 2011 election.
Senate Minority Leader Gillian Leytham’s title is a misnomer. 
With so few independent senators 
around, she said she often asks 
herself, “Who am I leading?”
Leytham didn’t hesitate to say 
what is obvious when you walk 
through the doors of the Student 
Senate. 
“[SG] is effectively a single-
party system,” she said. 
Unite doesn’t try to hide it. In-
stead of denying the monopoly the party has on the Senate, party 
members argued the majority was 
a good thing. 
“This allows Student Govern-
ment to be as efficient as possi-ble,” Senator Andy Schein said.
Unite leader -
ship is firm in its belief that the 
party is stand-
ing by the needs 
of students. As 
Student Body President Ben 
Meyers put it, 
this is a student-elected majority.
“The things that we’re do-
ing in Senate — the projects that 
we’re working on — are really 
going to speak for themselves,” 
Lewis said. “They will show that 
we have not wasted any time 
with this wonderful mandate that 
was given to us in the spring 2011 
elections.” 
Sure enough, Meyers has al-
ready established a task force to bring more locations for free 
printing, and Lewis authored a 
bill allowing for electronic voting in SG elections to prevent voter 
fraud. 
Nevertheless, the staggering 
majority the party holds in senate 
still lends itself to the question: How does such a small minority 
achieve anything? 
Former Senator Mike Mo-
rales, an independent, has been 
involved in student government since fall 2009.Morales recalled a 
time when Senate debates used to 
run well into the night, starting at 
7 p.m. and lasting until 2 or 3 a.m. 
This was because the strategy of minority senators like Jonathan 
Ossip and Alan Yanuck was to 
pummel the opposition into hear -
ing them out. 
“These guys knew parliamen-
tary procedure like the back of 
their hand,” he said. 
Dave Schneider, a former sena-
tor and SG presidential candidate, 
said past minority party leader -
ship liked watching their bills get 
struck down because it would 
look better when elections rolled 
around. 
Schneider subscribes to a dif-
ferent philosophy.
He said he thinks the best thing 
to do is to try to work across the aisle and warm Unite senators up 
to the idea he’s going to propose. 
“If you don’t reach across the 
other side of the table, if you don’t 
build coalitions, if you don’t build 
a broad base and you don’t bring 
students in to speak on the bill’s 
behalf,” he said, “your legislation 
will be gone in an instant.”Unite’s key to success: numbers
StudentLife
Meyers
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
Today’s question: Do you support same-sex marriage?
283 TOTAL VOTES41% YES59% NOPrevious question: Would you listen to Ted Nugent lecture on American politics?To our new pals
 Welcome to the big 
leagues baby Gators
For some of you, it’s part two of a sweltering summer in 
Gainesville. Halftime is over. Hang in there and drink a lot of water. Summer B is a little more lively around here.
For others, it’s your first taste of life at UF. Welcome.Take advantage of all the new opportunities before you — 
join clubs, enjoy frosty non-adult (or adult, if you’re old enough) beverages and good food at Gainesville’s finest establishments and study hard.
We know being the small fry on campus can be overwhelm-
ing. We know how daunting it is to realize you’re really on your own. We know how stupid it feels to get lost or to find yourself in the wrong room for class (even though we will never admit it, it still happens to us).
But don’t worry . Campus gets smaller, and the routine settles 
in quickly . 
Remember: Don’t be afraid to ask questions. Most people 
don’t bite — even if they are Gators. And don’t think you need to lug around every single textbook for all of your classes. Chances are, you might not need to or choose to crack open any of them.
To relax, get out of town when you get the chance and spend 
a day at Lake Wauburg or in one of Alachua County’s cozy little hamlets, like Micanopy, Newberry or Alachua.
And it’s good to be informed, ya know? So remember to 
stop by the nearest orange box every Tuesday and Thursday and pick up your friendly neighborhood Alligator for the latest in campus news.
First Among Equals 
There are many ways we can describe the New York Senate’s decision 
to pass a measure making same-sex marriage legal. We 
could lay out rustic philo-
sophical arguments as to why such a move for our country was the prudent and rational thing to do. We could also build a 50-foot-tall “straw man” adorned in the ever-patented relics of religious bigotry and set it ablaze with 
bumper-sticker slogans and 
rally cries. 
Instead, we feel New York 
State Senator Roy J. McDon-ald, one of the four state Sen-ate Republicans who voted for the legislation, summed it up best when he said, “You might not like that. You might 
be very cynical about that. 
Well, f*ck it, I don’t care what you think. I’m trying to do the right thing.”
The move by New York 
to become the sixth state in the Union to recognize the right for people of the same sex to marry underscores 
a necessary reality: All hu-
mans, regardless of who they go to bed with, at the end of the day , deserve access to the 
same rights. 
To  many conservatives 
and religious folk, same-sex 
marriage represents an en-croachment not only upon a “traditional” American in-stitution, but a divine one. While we may disagree with these premises, we acknowl-
edge their constitutional right 
to adhere to whatever creed, belief system or myth they choose. 
To us, the solution  seems 
clear: Take marriage com-pletely out of the hands of the state. (Conservatives, in theo-ry , shouldn’t have a problem 
with this as it would pry the 
daunting hand of government off of something American and/or holy .) Place it in the hands of churches; they can perform marriages however they want as a ritualistic cher -
ry on top, and allow all states to grant civil unions with the 
rights normally entitled to 
married couples to all humans who desire them.
That would be the right 
move to do.
The time has come for GTL to GTFO 
I hate “Jersey Shore.”
I just don’t get it. I don’t see the appeal. I have tried 
talking to people on a consistent basis to try to discover 
the appeal. I have even sat down and tried to watch it.
But it is as if people see something different on the screen. 
I see a bunch of blubbering, pompous, arrogant assclowns who care only about themselves. They are the textbook ex-ample of why Roe v. Wade is still on the books.
But they also may be geniuses. They get to act like fools 
every day and can do whatever they want as long as it’s en-tertaining. They essentially get paid to defy Darwinism.
I don’t blame “The Situation.” He can act like a manwhore 
and get paid a ridiculous amount of money for it. 
So are the members of “Jersey Shore” the real problem?
I don’t think so. The problem resides in the people who 
garner entertainment from stupid, lewd and vicious behav-
ior. 
Well, that’s not quite right. I watch “Family Guy,” “South 
Park” and a whole slew of crude entertainment. I love fart jokes and forms of scatological humor. 
I tried to watch it! I swear! I’ve stayed up with my girl-
friend getting caught up with Italian debauchery . It’s even on Netflix now!
But even after full immersion, I still get frustrated.Maybe people can watch the show and realize  their lives 
aren’t that bad because at least they aren’t like these schmo-hawks. 
Is that the million-dollar secret? Do people watch “Jersey 
Shore” to find reassurance in their own lives?
“At least I’m not a complete piece of shit.”“At least I don’t have sex with three girls in the same 
night.”
“At least I don’t poop in the fridge.”I love my life. I am not jealous of their lifestyles at all. I just 
don’t see the allure of banging bitches on the reg and treat-ing everyone like crap while acting as if the world owes me everything. I like me. Sure, I could be in better shape, be 
tanner and wear better clothes, but by no means does this show inspire me to a better person.
Some people just need reassur -
ance, though. 
But a certain amount of reassur -
ance comes at a cost. Although reas-surance boosts ego and confidence, it also bolsters our errors.
With bad examples as role models, we may be more in-
clined to stay the way we are, but we may also be less in-clined to punish the bad. It manages to both reinforce our good actions as “superior” and our bad actions as “not as 
bad.”
But what about those who watch it and are jealous of the 
cast’s lifestyles?
The jealousy is what scares me. What is there to be jealous 
of? I can understand the fascination with success and fame. 
But it scares me that people are approaching the concept that the ends truly justify the means of such douchebaggery . 
“Screw being a compassionate, conscientious person with 
respect for anyone. It’s all about that ‘dolla dolla bill, y’all.’” 
I have also been told that people look to “Jersey Shore” as 
means to fill their “drama quota.”
Why would you want drama, though? It just seems stu-
pid that people overreact to things that aren’t in any way as-sociated with their lives. 
And throughout this tirade, all I manage to do is sound 
like a douchebag, riding high and mighty upon my righteous steed of justice. 
So on Aug. 4, while the world marvels at season four of 
“Jersey Shore,” I’ll most likely be busy doing something use-ful with my time.
Or by that time, maybe I will be a disciple, too.Shea Ford is a psychology senior. His column appears on 
Tuesday.
Shea Ford
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
UF Republicans support
Meyers’ vote for tuition hike
The UF College Republicans 
agree with the Board of Trustees 
and Student Body President Ben Meyers’ vote to increase tuition. 
At this point in time, budget cuts 
are what are needed for the state. I applaud the work of state Senate President Mike Haridopolos and Gov . Rick Scott for making Florida one of the most financially stable states in the country . Budget cuts are tough to implement, especially with election season around the cor -
ner, but our elected officials in Talla-
hassee are working for the good of 
the entire state and making Florida an attractive state for business. 
The 7-percent tuition increase, 
unanimously voted on by the Board of Trustees, is necessary for the bet-terment of both UF and the state of Florida. By increasing tuition, we are shifting the burden of financing 
education to students, the consum-
ers of the service. By switching to a user-pays approach, the rest of Florida’s population doesn’t bear the burden of the cost of our edu-cation. 
Tuition increases are necessary 
in order to maintain the value of our degrees. UF needs to contin-
ue to provide top professors and 
churn out new research in order to stay competitive with other schools across the country . We already pay one of the lowest tuition rates in the nation, so a moderate increase in the price of our education can only serve to bolster the reputation of The Gator Nation and inflate the 
value of a degree from UF. 
On a separate note, I find it very 
immature that the Alligator would 
refer to President Meyers as the “doughy delegate.” Such personal attacks are highly unprofessional and deplorable for a reputable stu-dent news source. By all means the media should hold our elected rep-
resentatives accountable, but name-
calling is completely uncalled for. 
Ryan Garcia
Chairman, UF College RepublicansLetter to the Editor
We pretended nothing happened. 
Five of us shared whiskey and a joint and just stared at the fire.  
“This is what Dang would have wanted,” 
Ritchie said.
I gagged. 
He would have said the same thing had 
the body been mine.
I’ve rehashed that day, in 1969, a thousand 
times.    
n n n
“I remember this sandbar. I met your 
mother here.”
In Thai, Ritchie says, “At least I have a 
mother, cock breath.” 
The other four men hear, yet seem con-
fused. Three are Thai Air Force. One passes me a joint and a pint of whiskey .  
They don’t understand. Supposedly, we 
two round-eyed white men are friends. 
The fourth Asian, Sith, explains.“Farongs (foreigners) are crazy ,” he says. 
“They insult each other when they’re close. Their friendship’s so strong, words mean nothing.”
Sith’s right. Ritchie and I are neighbor -
hood guys. 
City blocks create bonds like families. Col-
or and nationality mean nothing. We unite against outsiders.         
I’m a boy soldier, so it’s easy to confuse ex-
perience and maturity .      
I’m certain that war, women or exotic lo-
cales will make me a man. I’m searching for that happy place out beyond the horizon. 
The earth is round, so my goal’s unreach-
able. 
My problems hide in dark, damp places 
within. I substitute women, drugs and alco-hol for an unhappy childhood. 
n n n
We arrive at about 11 a.m. The jungle cli-
mate makes the yellow-green water cascad-ing along both sides of the sandbar irresist-ible.
The Mekong’s unpredictable currents 
don’t worry us. Drowning is the least of our problems. We’re whacked on whiskey and weed in a combat zone.    
An American air base rests on our side of 
the Mekong. On the other bank lies forbidden Laos. Through that country’s dense jungle snakes the well-traveled conduit vital to the 
North Vietnamese for supplies and commu-
nication, the Ho Chi Minh Trail.n n n
“Chuey . Chuey . 
Chuey.”
Someone’s scream-
ing, “Help, help, help.” 
A man is drowning. 
No one moves.                     
I dive in. The current’s stronger than I 
thought. 
I’m in trouble.The harder I swim, the less headway I 
make. I turn, gulp for air and barely spy Dang’s body disappearing below the surface. I swim toward him.  
With no sense of distance and unaware of 
time, I’m scared sober.   
Dang’s head appears yards from where I 
tread water. I try to bridge the gap between us. His cold, panicked eyes are close. My own plight finally dawns on me. He thrashes wild-ly, screams unintelligibly and lunges to grab 
any part of me for salvation. Like a grounded 
fish, he’s flopping away any vestige of life. 
He’s dying.    Less than a yard from me, the hysterical, 
wild-eyed man disappears below the raging, 
murky water for the second time. Instinctive-
ly, I dive beneath the surface.
My arms shake like a bodybuilder lifting 
his last repetition. Moments before, I could swim. Now, I can’t. 
Dang surfaces again. His eyes bulge. His 
listless hand bids farewell. Spent, I swim to-ward him. He then slips below the murky surface for the last time.
Shamefully , I’m relieved. Off the hook at last, I swim furiously to-
wards the sandbar. Then tears flow. 
“I’m not going to make it,” I realize. “I’m 
drowning.”
“Swim, Billy,” Ritchie says. “Keep swim-
ming, keep swimming, Billy .” 
I think, “Here, right now, among strang-
ers, I’m going to die.”  
 
n n n
I’m alone in the water. On the sidelines, everyone’s yelling, 
“Swim, Billy . Swim.”  
I slip below the surface for the first time. 
The water churns above my head. I’m as helpless as a sock in a washing machine.  
When I break the surface, everything’s out 
of focus, the screams muffled, the sandbar surreal. An improbable calm engulfs me. My arms no longer hurt. Their screams 
sound like echoes. “Behind you, Billy ...behind you, Billy...behind you.”
From a boat, powerful hands grab my 
shoulders.                            
Once on the sandbar, I collapse and slip 
into unconsciousness. 
Hours later, we find Dang’s cold, lifeless 
corpse miles down the Mekong.  It’s repul-sive.
The blue, bloated body belongs to a strang-
er. I feel nothing. Hours before I had risked everything for this lifeless hulk. 
Maybe the booze or youth made me reck-
less. It’s young men who charge cannons and jump on grenades. Older, wiser men aren’t as careless about life’s gift.  
I view Ritchie with contempt. No written 
law says my best friend should jump in the water, but in my neighborhood, we carved it in wet cement.
A stand-up guy does something when his 
friend is dying. 
n n n
I inhale the joint and swallow the harsh 
whiskey . 
I stare into the fire. Suddenly, I’m over -
whelmed with misplaced, self-centered grief. 
I’m sickened. Not by Dang’s death, nor 
by Ritchie’s betrayal. Despite all that’s hap-pened, I still feel like a boy. Inside, nothing has changed.
To the Thai Air Force, I’m a hero. Weeks later, to reward me, they take me to 
a no-frills whorehouse.  
Loaded, I cross a shaky plank deep in the 
jungle. From my tenuous perch, I spy a writh-ing gray river. Below me, thousands of rats squirm atop each other’s backs.  
Terrified, I leap into the hut. Seven unat-
tractive women wait. Each cost 50 cents. One skinny child, a virgin, sells for $5.
I bolt outside to the ravine and vomit into 
the gray, slithering mass below me. 
In my neighborhood, we don’t sell chil-
dren or watch men drown.    
In Thailand, at 20, I’m a man at last.
It makes me puke.
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam veteran, former 
Bronx firefighter and pub and restaurant owner. O’Connor is currently a journalism major at UF and a standup comic. The irreverent and acerbic O’Connor performs free standup around Gainesville. For previous installments of “Lost in the Sauce,” visit alligator.org.Lost in the sauce: Swimming to maturity Column
Bill O’Connor
letters@alligator.orgBy GABRIELA ROSIAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Seward Johnson Jr. went from soap 
and medicine to sculpture. 
After being fired from the family 
business, famed healthcare giant John-
son & Johnson, he began his life in art.
Now, one of his sculptures towers 
over the Plaza of the Americas at UF.
Students were welcomed to Summer 
B by Johnson’s 20-foot bronze sculpture of a dancing couple.
The statue is titled “Whisper -
ing Close,” and it was inspired by 
the Pierre-Auguste Renoir painting, 
“Dance in the City.”
The sculpture was last on display 
in Albany, N.Y., and it was recently moved to Gainesville.
It is the first of 17 statues being erect-
ed throughout campus and downtown Gainesville as a collaborative project between UF and the City of Gainesville. 
The exhibition will be called “Crossing 
Paths.”
Andy Howard, a College of Fine 
Arts spokesman, said this is the first time there has been a co-presentation of these sculptures between a city and a campus. 
“It is kind of exciting that we are set-
ting an example,” Howard said. “The 
main idea is to get the people from cam-
pus to explore the city and to get people from the city to explore the campus.”
The pieces, on loan from the Sculp-
ture Foundation, were taken from John-son’s collections, “Celebrating the Fa-miliar” and “Beyond the Frame.” The collections include works inspired by Impressionist paintings as well as oth-ers simulating people doing everyday activities.
So far, students have had mixed 
reactions to the Plaza of the Americas sculpture.
Dianet Preciado, a second-year in-
dustrial and systems engineering ma-jor, said she thought the statue added character to the plaza.
“It is very unique,” she said. “At first 
I didn’t know what it was, so I had to come closer to look at it. It is definitely 
interesting and modern.” 
“It epitomizes randomness in epic 
proportions,” said applied physiology 
and kinesiology major Carlos Guer -rero.
Howard said the exhibition is part 
of Creative B, a  summer program fo-cusing on culture and creativity. The exhibition is an effort to encourage stu-dents to take creativity-focused courses throughout the Summer B term and will also bridge to National Arts and 
Humanities Month at UF in October.
The remaining works will be in-
stalled on July 7 and will be on display 
until Oct. 14.8, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator 
UF student Rahkiah Brown admires the size of the “Whispering Close” 
sculpture by Seward Johnson Jr. at the Plaza of the Americas on June 20.
cAmpuSSculptures arrive on campus, city
n OFFICIALS CAN SPREAD INFORMATION 
THROUGH ONE POINT OF ENTRY.
By mARLA ORTIZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is expected to be operating on a new inte-
grated distribution system for emergency notifi-cations this upcoming fall.
According to Kenneth Allen, emergency man-
agement coordinator for the Department of En-vironmental Health and Safety at UF, the inte-gration system will have one single entry point of information. The news will then be dispersed through all the various systems.
The UF emergency notification system is com-
posed of several methods to inform the campus. 
These methods include, but are not limited to, the UF homepage, email, text messages, voice messaging, me-dia advisories, campus radio and 
television stations, campus cable television and the UF rumor control hotline.
This system is expected to begin operating late 
this summer.
“The goal with all our emergency notification 
systems is to not rely on a single method to reach the campus community,” Allen said. “That is why we have multiple modes of communication.” 
The biggest challenge the health and safety 
department faces, Allen said, is the scope of the university. 
“This is a massive place; there is no other way 
to put it,” he said.
Although UF was among the first of large 
universities to make it a requirement for all stu-dents to give their telephone numbers in their emergency contact information, the text message system isn’t 100 percent reliable, Allen said.  He explained that some students may provide false numbers. Others may not have their telephone accessible.UF to update 
emergency notifications 
State officials worry about 
duplication of efforts
concerns would be brought before 
the Board of Governors for media-tion.
Frank Brogan, chancellor of the 
State University System, said the 
board’s intent is not to stifle a uni-
versity’s ability to branch out.
“It’s not meant to create a bu-
reaucratic entanglement that will last forever,” he said.
He also noted the state wishes to 
curb the duplication of efforts as a way to save resources. He cited UF’s pharmacy program at St. Petersburg 
College as an example.
With a new pharmacy school 
established at nearby University of 
South Florida, Brogan questioned whether it was in the state’s best in-terest to have these two programs in the same place.“Is that good business?” he said.It’s no secret that the issue is a 
touchy one among the state’s uni-versity presidents.
A panel of university presidents 
remained quiet, with eyes down, 
as board chairwoman Ava Parker 
asked them if they could communi-cate with each other on any upcom-
ing projects that may cause some conflict — 
something Florida Atlantic Univer -
sity President Mary Jane Saunders 
asked for as a matter of courtesy 
while the regulation continues to be discussed.
“I’m looking around at every-
one to make sure we’re on the same page,” she said. “And no one’s look-ing, so that’s suggesting that we’re not on the same page.”BOARD , from page 1NewsLocal
§ Tuition Hike
UF students will be paying 15 percent more in tuition 
this fall. The Board unanimously approved a 7 per -
cent tuition increase that, together with the legisla-ture’s 8 percent increase, brings next year’s tuition increase to 15 percent. Students taking 30 credit hours in the next school year will pay about $5,700 
of in-state tuition and fees. This is the third straight 
year UF has sought and received approval for a 15 percent hike. The move comes after state legisla-tors cut funding for Bright Futures about 20 percent. The Board of Trustees, which includes Student Body 
President Ben Meyers, unanimously approved the in-
crease at its June meeting. Board of Governors mem-ber Tico Perez said even with the increase, Florida is 48th in the country in tuition and fees that students 
pay. With budgets continuing to shrink from year to 
year, he said tuition raises are necessary to handle the cuts. “We have stopped trimming the fat and we are starting to sever the bone,” he said.
§ Two New Trustees
A former tobacco executive has been approved to UF’s board of trustees.
The Board of Governors approved two new members of the UF Board of Trustees Thursday: Charles Ed-
wards, a current member of the Board of Governors 
and attorney from Fort Myers, and Susan Cameron, former chief executive of  Reynolds American tobacco company. Cameron worked in the tobacco industry for years, rising to the top post at the second-larg-
est tobacco company in the country. She is the first 
woman to head a U.S. tobacco company. Cameron is succeeding Cynthia O’Connell, whose term ended in February. Edwards is succeeding Mac McGriff. Both 
McGriff and O’Connell had been trustees since the 
board’s creation in 2001. Both are UF graduates. Both terms run until Jan. 6, 2016.
§ Renovations to Athletic Facilities
The board unanimously approved the issuance of 
no more than $15 million in bonds by the University Athletic Association to fund the renovation of several sports facilities. These projects include renovations 
of the west concourse of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium and 
softball and baseball scoreboards.HIGHLIGHTS FROm BOARD OF GOVERNORS mEETING
UFAdministrationClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 4/4’s
ONLY $409
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1The Polos
Roommate Matching Available
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. $800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call Cindy 352-443-2016.    8-15-11-25-1
Furnished,4bedroom,4bath,W/D,1st 
floor,$350/room, 3800 SW 20th Univ Terrace West, includes utilities Steve 352-586-6468; room-mate matching    7-5-11-10-1
$375-Well-maintained 4/4 SW Gville condo 
avail. starting summer or fall. Less than 10 mins. from UF/Shands/Butler Plaza! RMM match, indiv. leases, private bath, walk-in closets, W/D, on 2 bus routes. Internet/cable included. Call 352.514.3398.   8-26-11-25-12BR/2.5BA Townhouse.
Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865    6-30-11-8-1
1/1-$600/month(39th St NW and University 
Ave). Spacious, carpet with tile flooring. Fully 
renovated with new appliances. Furnished, 
Washer/Dryer included. Min. to UF and 
Oaks Mall.Contact Maria @ 786-389-9718  
7-5-11-8-1
Furn.small efficiency,immaculate,wash/dry 
on premises,wat/sew incl,NS,NO PETS,1/2m 
South UF/SHANDS,2 bus routes,$415/m 
352-262-2871 Owner/agent    7-7-11-7-1
4BR/4BA available in 4/4, Beautiful gated 
Countryside complex. $385/mo incl all utils, 
cable, internet, etc. Big Screen tv in living 
room! Looking for female for full year lease. 
Shahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com or 386-454-
8956   7-26-11-10-1
4BD/4BA condo available on 7/31. 
$275 per person.1.5 miles from UF; on bus line. All appliances & some furniture included. Call J. Erney at 352-328-1266.   7-7-11-10-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-11118-15-11-25-2 2 BR starts at $1029
3 BR starts at $1219
Amazing townhome, includes:
Cable w/ HBO and Showtime
Cobblestone Apts. Call Now!
352.377.2801   8-15-25-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
One Month FREE!
Move In by June 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
8-15-11-25-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1 $549 • 4/2.5 TH $899
Waived move-in fees • Waived pet fee
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
8-15-11-25-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis
●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$579 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$579
2/2 *$699
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
6-30-11-47-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     6-30-11-39-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/1.5BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/1.5BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $590-625. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
7-7-42-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
6-30-11-39-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south 
UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-
nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    
8-2-11-30-2
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.net
Clean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, 
stable, mature persons.
●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 
Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, 
WDH, CHA, carpet. 
●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-
rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock 
gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.
●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 
- $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our 
units are newly refurbished with all new ap-
pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and 
more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    
8-15-11-25-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. 
rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded 
kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on 
direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-
14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1500/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida room, private fenced backyard with patio, pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-5453    7-14-11-18-2
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-11-13-210, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011
1/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or 
quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth 
call: 352 377-2150    7-21-11-18-2
1/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook -
ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2
3BR/3BA Apartment
Internet & Cable Included
Available August 4th
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838!
8-15-21-2
Very nice Rockwood Villas Townhouse
3/3 for only $900.00/month-Great deal!
Large bedrooms, updated appliances, Washer/dryer, 2 pools, lots of parkingCall Jared at (941) 737-6997    6-30-11-10-2Great 3/2 House w/crpt & w/d (1100sqft)
Rent $1050/month with lease
Pets allowed  :)  Available June 1st
Contact Kathryn: kesamai@gmail.com
4102 NW 21st Terrace Gville, FL 32608    
7-14-14-2
2BR HOUSE
Private yard. Small dog OK. $650/mo 6200 
SW 13th St. 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   6-28-11-8-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-11146-30-11-10-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice,
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwash -
er, ice, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. $1590/mo. 352-
665-8166 lv mssg          8-15-11-21-2●Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage Blocks to UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry 
with w/d, large private screened porch. No 
Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $875/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836  
7-28-11-20-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm floor plans starting
at $635. Washer/Dryer, Fitness Center,
Tennis Court, Swimming Pool, Sauna etc.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 10-5, Sun 12-4
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillas.com
text (Lakewood)@65586
8-15-11-20-2
SPYGLASS
Individual Leases. Furniture Pkgs. incl.
Washer/Dryer, FREE Hi-Speed internet.
Rates start at $399. Every unit an end unit.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 26nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass) 65586
8-15-11-20-2
UPPER WESTSIDE /
NANTUCKET
1 & 2 bdrm  Luxury Apts. Granite counters.
Parking avail. Walk to campus & stadium.
For info. call 352-872-4644
upperwestside@cmcapt.com
text: upperwestside@65374
8-15-11-20-2
2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS, $750, NEAR 
MALL & UF. LOTS OF PARKING, CORNER 
UNIT, HAS OWN W+D D.AGUIRRE.
AZOCAR@GMAIL.COM OR 347.878.9072   
AVAILABLE JULY 1.    7-5-11-10-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/ 
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2175 352-665-8166 lv mssg 8-15-11-21-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pristine 
Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, hdwd 
flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/
UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-1458    6-28-11-8-2***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
8-15-11-17-2
3240 NW 41st Ave. On bus rte. 3BR/1BA 
house. Quiet neighborhood, W/D, DW, cent 
A/C, screened porch, fenced yard, pet friend-
ly. Avail 8/1. $1000/mo. 1st + security. 407-
509-4574    6-30-11-6-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   8-31-11-24-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    8-31-
11-24-2
**WALK TO UF** 617 NW 19th ST. 
4BR/2BTH. 1600/mo. Park cars for games, 
make money while you rent!!! Avail Aug 1. 
Wood floors, washer/dryer. Call (803)413-
8669.    6-28-11-3-2
1st MONTH FREE 3BR/1BA
Newly renovated. Granite, hardwood floors, 
patio. ●OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY ●715 NW 
24th Ave. or call for an appointment. 904-303-5520 $1200/mo.  6-28-11-2-2
Quiet spacious 2 bed 1 bath house on large  
lot, glassed porch, washer/dryer hookup,pet 
fee, lease $750 available Aug 1
1301 NW 8th St call 352 475 1586    7-5-4-2
BEAT THE HEAT WITH OUR COOL RATES!
HUGE 2&3 BRs less than 1 mi to UF.
H2O, gas, full sz W/D included.
Call for prices on leases signed by Jul 8
COUNTRY VILLAGE 373.2700
7-7-11-4-2
THE COURTYARDS
Steps to UF. Fully furnished.
All inclusive individual leases.
Now leasing for Fall enrollment.
Parking avail.  M-F 9-6, Sat 10-5
1231 SW 3rd Ave., #125
352-372-3557/thecourtyardsuf.com
8-15-11-13-2MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLKS TO UF
Wood Floors or Carpet $500/Mo
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
1216 SW 3rd Avenue
GRAD II Apts
1BR & 2BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. 1BR $500/Mo
2BR-$800/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos.
ROBERT OBRIEN APTS
1BR 1BA $400/Mo
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat
Gas Ht, Laundry on site
2901 NW 14th St.
PICKWICK PARK
2BR 1 ½ BA Condo Carpet,Central H & Air, Dishwasher
Pool, Clubhouse etc. $675/Mo
4411 SW 34th Street #1005
3BR 1BA Home 3 BLOCKS TO UF!
Wood Floors, Central H & Air
Avail late August. 1012 SW 3rd Avenue
$1200/Mo
3BR 1BA HOME NEAR LAW SCHOOL
Carpet, Central H & Air, Yard
217 NW 36th Drive $950/Mo
2BR 1BA DUPLEX $600/MO
New Carpet, Window A/C
Nat Gas Ht. 6 BLKS to UF
604 NW 13th Terrace6-28-11-3-2
2 bed/1.5 bath condo with walk-in closet, 
in unit W/D, screened in porch, and pool on property. RTS buses 9, 35, 36, later gator B, and 1 game day bus pick up directly in front. pets are allowed. neighborhood is quiet and neighbors are friendly. (904) 553-82257-28-11-10-2
2BR/2B $700. Sparrow Condominiums. 
Spacious home-like condo. Fenced-in mini backyard. Peaceful. Nice Amenities. 1 Mile from Oaks Mall, 5-miles from UF, on bus line 75. Call Jason 352-283-0240   7-28-11-10-2
1/1 Reduced Price Poolhouse
ONE MONTH FREE RENT925/mo. W/D covered patio. Pets OK.Utilities Cable Internet Included.e-mail laurencrunyon@gmail.com    6-28-11-3-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38668-15-25-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 11
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house. Male 
or female. No pets/smoking. Free off-street 
parking $450/mo. Includes all utilities, wifi, 
security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 
727-726-2915    6-30-11-40-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   6-30-11-27-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from 
Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. 
$325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837                                 6-28-11-13-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 
4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 
min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, 
non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881    
6-28-11-9-4
Male college student wanted for gated 
4BR/4BA Countryside condo, poolside, own 
BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, ear-
ly stop on UF bus rte. Utils incl. $400/mo. No 
deposit  863-634-1893     6-30-11-10-4
3BR/3BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Countryside 
condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl.
Direct bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless.Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-48147-28-11-18-4
Grad student looking for female students 
in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. $425/month. Includes cable/internet, utilities, 
W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-
542-8155.    7-14-11-11-4
Looking for 4 UF students to rent furnished 
4/4 student condo at Countryside at the University. W/D, pool, no pets, on bus rt, 1.5 mi from UF. 1st floor. Ready Aug 1st. $400/mo/rm. Call 386-295-7929 or 386-672-6969   7-14-11-11-4
Grad student looking for female roommate 
who is clean and studious. Windsor Park furnished condo - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $375/mo + 1/3 utilities. 407-361-1154. 6-30-11-6-4
Roommate wanted for summer B and/or fall:  
College house; 4/3: lg rooms, lg yard, fp & 
lg pool, walk/bike to UF or 4.5 mi to SFC, nice/safe neighborhood! Join the good life! $375/mo +1/4 util. Call Justin 813-748-60426-28-11-5-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-682-9412      7-7-7-4
wanted; female roommate for 2BD 2BA 
furnished w/ own laundry. close to Shands & campus. $500/mo + utilities. big clos-ets, 2 pools, cable & internet included. call Christine: 352.870.3806    6-30-11-3-4
LARGE 3/2 POOL HOUSE
Master Bedroom, suite, PRIVATE bath and walk in closet. 5 min to UF. W/D and all utilities included $560. Call 352-332-5030 or 352-541-6180    8-15-11-14-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
THINK YOU CAN’T BUY?
Credit score of 600
qualifies you to apply now.
Homes as low as $500/ month.
Oak Park MHC
4000 SW 47th Street
Gainesville, Fl 32608
Call Tessie 888-486-1607       7-14-11-8-5
New homes, 3.2 miles north of UF
3BD/2BA 2-car garages. Starting at 148,900
1659 NW 34th Ave - Model home
ForestCreek.me
Schackow Realty 352-514-5060       6-30-
11-4-5
INVESTOR ALERT!
2/2 in Campus Edge only $115k
Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 352-514-6715ERA Preferred Propertes    7-7-11-5-5
REMODELED! $46,000 1BR/1BA 
BRANDYWINE MOVE in NOW!
Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 352-514-6715 ERA Preferred Properties   6-28-11-2-5
Updated NW Vintage Charm
2br/1ba, corner lot, 1 car garage, near UF & 
downtown $95k Jeff Dautel, REALTOR 352-331-5374 ERA Preferred Properties    6-30-11-3-5
$177,500 - 4BR/3BA w/in-law apt, 1 blk off 
Newberry, corner SW 2nd Ave & 38th ~1 mi to UF. 2500 hsf, 2 car carport, Owner will sell subject to owner mortgage with good down payment 407-363-7198 or 407-234-1380    7-7-11-5-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  8-15-25-6 BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03708-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
● Fresh Local Blackberries ●
Thornless ● Big & Sweet
U-pick $3/lb ● We pick $3.75/lb
Interlochen  386-972-17706-28-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-25-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-11-25-11SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLE $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK, BUY HERE PAY HERE
CARS, SUVS, TRUCKS & VANS
30 DAY WARRANTY
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 FORD TAURUS $5999
02 CHEVY CAMERO $6999
03 GMC SONOMA $6999
05 CHEVY MONTE CARLO $6999
352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 SATURN ION $7999
02 NISSAN XTERRA $899905 CHEVY TRAILBLAZER $999905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10,999352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
8-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.STAND OR SIT ● POWERFUL MOBILITY
15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take 
apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-
erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & 
up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    
7-28-11-17-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   8-15-11-20-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
8-15-11-20-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-
25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
7-28-11-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 DAY PAYOFFON CASH VEHICLESPAY OFF TIME NEGOTIABLE352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKCASH VEHICLES $1000 AND UP!352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 EAGLE TALON $1499
89 FORD BRONCO $129994 FORD TAURUS $129994 TOYOTA CAMRY $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
00 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250096 BMW 318TI $3999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
01 CHEVY SILVERADO $599998 DODGE DURANGO $699902 CHEVY SILVERADO $6999352-338-1999     8-15-95-1212, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
6-30-11-25-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Denise Fanning at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
6-3-79-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. Excellent
Benefits. Please email resume to
ahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.
www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617    8-15-11-25-14Artist needs model. I have examples of my 
work and local personal references for you to 
review. decent pay. must have own transpor-
tation.352 246 3157    7-9-11-3-14
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial 
Production department is now accepting 
applications from students only. 
Applicants should be available evenings 
between the hours of 6:00 pm and 1:00 am. 
Production duties include page layout and 
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is 
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected. 
Fill out an application at the front desk of 
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule 
and references. No phone calls or e-mails, 
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to 
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Nanny needed. Overnights.
Newborn twins.8pm-8am Mon -Th
exp/ refs req Sharyn@jaxnanny.com            6-30-11-6-14
Quality child caring center is looking for 
dedicated people who love working with 
children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, 
AA or BA in education. Benefits avail -
able with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481  
6-28-11-5-14Artist / Craftsman is offering a apprenticeship 
designed to provide a opportunity to learn 
fundamental building skills. Decent pay ,flex-
ible hours, hard work, must have transporta-
tion. 246 3157      6-28-11-2-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly work
Flexible schedules
$8 an hour to start
Apply online at RGIS.COM    6-30-11-3-14
Full and part time positions available
SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS
TECH SUPPORT
LINUX ADMINISTRATOR
AVIATION RESEARCH ASST
SHIPPING TECH
ADMIN ASST
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.     7-7-
11-8-14
Rowing Coaches Needed!
Local club, HS & MS afterschool programs 
Enjoy the outdoors 2-6 days/wk depending on your schedule- amyrt524@yahoo.com    7-6-11-3-14
OCCASIONAL YARD WORK$7.50/hr. Call 373-0489
7-28-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
8-15-11-31-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
CPR, First Aid, Basic Life Support,
Advanced Cardiac Life Support Classes
Offered at your schedule. Best prices in town. 
Call Cardiac One today (352)494-4217
7-5-11-10-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   8-15-11-25-18
LOCAL IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, H1B's, Employment 
Green Cards, & Natz
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
6-28-10-18
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-11-25-20
CPR/ FIRST AID/ WILDERNESS FIRST 
AID/ LIFEGUARDINGMeets internship and health majorrequirementsFloridaheartsaver.org 575-0119    7-28-11-15-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
8-15-11-13-21TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 13
Sports
TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
When the bulbs high above Ben Hill Griffin Stadium 
flicker on at Florida’s Friday Night Lights camp on July 22, 
they’ll be shining on two high school teammates who are already basking in some national recognition. 
One of the state’s powerhouse football programs heading 
into 2011, Miramar High School is led defensively by physi-cal cornerback Tracy Howard and offensively by speedy receiver Malcolm Lewis. Through their stellar on-field play at Miramar, various combines and 7-on-7 events, the duo has become the focus of the persistent storm that is college football recruiting.
“It’s getting kind of crazy right now,” Howard said. “I 
try to stay humble about it — stay focused with the help of 
my coaches and my family.”
But what might be most intriguing about Howard and 
Lewis is the possibility they will be a package deal.
“Since ninth grade, we’ve always been getting each other 
better,” Howard said. “It’s a blessing to have him on my team. … We’re best friends, so we might go to the same col-lege.”
When asked if Howard’s decision will have an impact on 
which school he chooses, Lewis was short and simple.
“Yes,” he said. “Of course.” For the Gators, this would be particularly enticing. Ex-
plosive playmakers are always a top priority in Gainesville, 
POLL RESULTS POLL QUESTION QUOTABLEBy JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
Over the weekend, three Florida 
track and field athletes were se-
lected onto Team USA after strong 
performances at the USA Track and Field Championships in Eugene, Ore.
Junior jumpers Will Claye and 
Christian Taylor, as well as sprint-er Tony McQuay will don the red, white and blue during the IAAF World Championships from Aug. 
27-Sept. 4 in Daegu, South Korea.
Additionally, two freshmen, Ed-
die Lovett and Cory McGee, won 
national titles at the USA Junior Championships to end their sea-son.
Here’s the top UF finishes from 
the four-day meet:
Men’s Triple Jump: 
1. Christian Taylor 
2. Will Claye
Men’s Long Jump: 
2. Will Claye
Men’s 400m: 
1. Tony McQuay
Men’s Junior 110m Hurdles: 
1. Eddie Lovett
Women’s Junior 1,500m: 
1. Cory McGeeGators join Team USA Pay attention, recruits. Will Muschamp 
isn’t playing games.
When the new football coach was 
hired, he made a grandiose proclamation that, under his leadership, the Gators would strive 
to keep their noses clean and thrive as student-
athletes living the “Florida Way .” 
“There’s a certain thing that I’m going to 
refer to as the Florida Way, and that’s the way they need to act and that’s the way they need to represent our university ,” Muschamp said at his introductory press conference. “I’m going to demand that and I think that you’ll understand in time that that’s something that’s very impor -
tant to me.”
While the statement was a necessity at the 
time, many wondered exactly what it meant and how Muschamp would respond when the inevitable finally occurred under his watch. 
We didn’t have to wait long. Janoris Jenkins was dismissed from the team 
in April following his second marijuana arrest in less than a three-month span. 
The official release from the team made it 
seem like the decision was mutual, that Jenkins and Muschamp agreed to part ways. But three arrests in 23 months ac-tually handcuffed Mus-champ, and dismissing 
the troubled Jenkins 
was his only choice.
Back in December, 
the fiery head coach talked about wanting his athletes to be better 
human beings because they attended Florida.
“And I’m not just talking from a football 
standpoint,” Muschamp said. “I’m talking about the off-the-field things.”
Urban Meyer’s six-year tenure at UF fea-
tured 30-plus arrests, and, many times, players saw little or no repercussions for their missteps. Star players like Jenkins and Carlos Dunlap re-ceived even more leeway for  misconduct.
While a down has yet to be played in the 
Muschamp era, it appears those days are no more. Show a shred of submerged issues and chances are you’re out the door.Muschamp restoring order at UF
Matt Watts
Telling You Watts Up 
mwatts@alligator.org
SEE WATTS, p AGE 15
previous question:  
How many games will the top-ranked Gators baseball team win in Omaha, Neb., at the College World Series? Percent (Votes)
5-6 71% (126)
3-4 21% (38)
1-2 5% (9)
0 2% (4)
177 TOTAL VOTESToday’s question: Does a national championship in 
baseball hold the same weight as one in football or basketball?RECRUITINGMiramar duo turning heads, package deal possible 
Special to the Alligator: Michael Laughlin / Sun-Sentinel
Miramar High wide receiver Malcolm Lewis and cornerback Tracy Howard, the nation’s No. 1 cornerback, are part of a potential package deal for the Gators in 2012. Both will attend the Gators’ Friday Night Lights camp on July 22.
SEE RECRUITING, p AGE 15“It’s getting kind of crazy right now. I try to 
stay humble about it — stay focused with the 
help of my coaches and my family.”
Tracy Howard
cornerback recruit
 “I’ll say hypothetically I don’t have any more of my Florida 
jerseys. There were some Jacksonville businessmen that 
really hypothetically liked my play.”
Channing Crowder
Former UF linebacker on whether or not student-athletes 
should be allowed to sell game-worn jerseys for cash. 
TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Although National Signing Day is over eight months away, Florida’s next football recruiting 
class is already taking shape. The Gators have picked up 13 oral commitments. Here are some highlights of the developing class and prospects to look at going forward.
CB Brian Poole  (5-11/187; Bradenton Southeast High): Considered by Rivals.
com to be the No. 8 cornerback in the nation, Poole is a physical defender 
who might jam as well as any corner in high school football. After orally com -
mitting earlier this month, Poole became Florida’s second 2012 cornerback, joining Hallandale three-star Willie Bailey.
RBs Mike Davis (5-9/192; Stone Mountain Stephenson High (Ga.)) and Matt 
Jones  (6-2/200; Seffner Armwood High): The Gators deepened their backfield 
with the addition of two of the country’s premier running back prospects. Da -
vis, the younger brother of Washington Redskins running back James Davis, 
picked up 1,200 yards rushing and 14 touchdowns as a junior while splitting 
time with South Florida commit Willie Davis. Meanwhile, Jones is a versa -
tile back with the build of a linebacker. As a junior at Armwood, he racked 
up 1,509 total yards and 26 touchdowns. A February oral commit, he has spoken highly of Florida’s pro-style transition and become one of the Gators’ biggest recruiters.
OLB Lorenzo Phillips  (6-1/200; Patterson High (La.): The most recent skill-
position oral commitment, Phillips helps fill a void that has been difficult to 
tackle for the Gators thus far. After watching four-stars Noor Davis (Stanford) and Raphael Kirby (Miami) go elsewhere, Phillips joins Pinellas Park High standout Jeremi Powell at linebacker, a current weakness in UF’s defense.
WR Latroy Pittman (6-1/190; Citra North Marion High): UF’s first 2012 oral 
commit chose UF in August over Alabama, Georgia and Florida State. South Florida — who picked up an oral commitment from North Marion teammate 
and four-star tight end Sean Price on Friday — has made a heavy run to sway 
his commitment, but Pittman said his loyalty to Florida is “solid as a rock.”
TE Kent Taylor (6-5/220; Land O’ Lakes High): Florida has already picked up an oral 
commitment from one four-star tight end in Colin Thompson, and while Thompson is a 
major asset as far as blocking, Taylor could compliment him perfectly as a vertical threat and versatile playmaker. As a junior, Taylor caught 35 passes for 571 yards and nine touchdowns while lining up at both tight end and receiver. He has said he likes the idea 
of forming a tandem with Thompson at UF but has also shown interest in FSU and holds 
offers from Auburn, LSU and Southern California.ATH Nelson Agholor (6-2/180; Tampa Berkeley Prep): One of high school football’s most 
electric playmakers, this five-star athlete will have his pick of any college in the country. Agholor refuses to be limited to one position and has said he will only go to a school that classifies him as an “athlete.” He averaged 11.52 yards per touch and scored 21 touchdowns as a junior. As far as schools, he is still completely open. Don’t expect any 
early decisions from him as far as oral commitments, as Agholor said he doesn’t plan on 
announcing anything until signing day.
OT Avery Young  (6-6/273; Palm Beach Gardens High): Jones was vocal about his courting 
of Young when both attended UF’s spring game in April. With a need for depth up front, 
the Gators are in luck as 2012 features a deep pool of offensive tackles. He recently at -
tended camp in Gainesville and reportedly has Florida and Georgia atop his leaderboard.
DE Jonathan Bullard  (6-4/255; Shelby Crest High (N.C.)): As a junior at Crest High (the 
former stomping grounds of Brandon Spikes), the five-star defensive end recorded 107 
tackles, including 16 sacks en route to winning Defensive Player of the Year honors in his conference. Bullard has consistently shown interest in Florida but also has South Carolina on his short list. Rivals has him listed as the No. 2 defensive end in the country behind 
only FSU commit Mario Edwards.
SCOUTING THE 2012 CLASS
OT Jessamen Dunker  (6-6/315; Boynton Beach High): In another area of 
need, Dunker is currently Florida’s only offensive line oral commit. The big 
tackle is currently rated the No. 49 overall prospect in the nation by Rivals.Major Commits
Targets to Watch
Bryan Holt and Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffLewis, Howard have multiple offers
and Howard fits UF head coach Will Muschamp’s 
mold at corner, a position that is currently a bit of a question mark for Florida.
Howard would also be a Muschamp-approved 
recruit — something six of the cornerbacks who 
will be in August camp can’t say.
Rated the No. 1 cornerback in the nation and 
the No. 25 overall prospect by Rivals.com, the 6-foot, 170-pound defender has offers from Au-burn, Alabama and Florida. He also accepted an invitation to play in the U.S. Army All-American Bowl. 
Meanwhile, Lewis has been dubbed a four-
star receiver and also has a plethora of big offers. 
He has narrowed his top five down to Alabama, 
Florida, Florida State, LSU and Miami, and plans to take official visits to all five schools. However, he has not distinguished any particular interest between the five.
“Everything is the same right now,” the 5-11, 
170-pound receiver said.Miami head coach Al Golden has recruited 
the two South Florida natives persistently, and they spent the past weekend at his camp in Coral Gables. 
“They say they want me real bad,” Lewis 
said.
Like Lewis, Howard is open to all takers right 
now and is in no major hurry to commit.
“Maybe midseason or signing day,” he said 
of a commitment timeline. “Those are the only 
two.”
In the meantime, the sum-
mer will be filled with com-bines, camps and visits for both. Howard heads to Nike’s The Opening showcase in Port-land, Ore., from July 5-9 while 
Lewis will be all over the Florida 7-on-7 circuit.
Come fall, the two players — who wore shirts 
with “Unfinished Business” screen printed across the back at the recent Heath Evans 7-on-7 Tourna-ment in West Palm Beach — will try to avenge a 
loss in last season’s regional semifinals and bring a 6A state title to Miramar.RECRUITING , from page 14Freshman receiver Chris Dunkley was sus-
pended during spring practice for academic rea-
sons (read: he was flunking) and was forced to sit out of the Orange and Blue Debut in April. He filed his transfer papers days later. 
Redshirt freshman Chris Martin, a five-star 
DE/LB transfer from Cal, also made a name for himself when he was cited for possession of mari-juana in January while sitting in his car down-town — days after Jenkins’ first cannabis charge.
And, according to police reports, Jenkins was in the same vehicle during his April citation for smoking inside a car in a downtown parking lot. 
Martin transferred Friday.While the departures of Dunkley and Martin 
are definitively labeled, one can’t help but think they were scooted out the door — much like Jen-
kins — under the auspices of the soon-to-be infa-
mous Florida Way.
Muschamp knows there’s little benefit in re-
cruiting when labeled an enforcer, but any en-deavor toward changing the criminal culture encompassing Florida football should be ap-plauded.WATTS , from page 14
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Will Muschamp said his teams would represent the “Florida Way.” He dis -
missed troubled corner Janoris Jenkins and has disciplined others with off-the-field issues. 
Recruiting16, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2011
Group A
#2 Germany
#6 Canada
#7 France
Nigeria2011 WORLD CUP 
USA plays North Korea today at 12:15 p.m.
USA National Team
Though the United States enters the sixth Women’s World Cup as FIFA’s top-ranked team for the 
fourth year running, the Americans are far from being labeled as the favorite. With two-time defend -
ing champion Germany hosting the tournament and playing great soccer, the U.S. spent the past 
year struggling to make the field, finally culminating in a narrow playoff victory over Italy. The U.S. 
women were also placed in this year’s edition of the “Group of Death” with two other top-eight teams 
(No. 5 Sweden, No. 8 North Korea) and an upset-minded Colombia squad. As a swirl of question 
marks and doubts surround the Americans, the team will look to snap back into the form that has 
given them two previous titles and the 2008 Olympic Gold Medal in Beijing.
Gators to Watch
Former Florida All-Americans Abby Wambach and Heather  
Mitts are both on the U.S. national team with Wambach 
competing in her third World Cup and Mitts in her first. 
When she’s not doing ESPN SportsCenter commercials, 
the 31-year-old Wambach is an international scoring 
machine at striker, possessing the best goals-per-game 
ratio in U.S. history. On defense, Mitts has been one of 
the team’s pillars at right back over the last eight years 
with over 100 caps and two Olympic team appearances.
Group B
#4 Japan
#10 England
Mexico
New ZealandGroup C
#1 USA
#5 Sweden
#8 North Korea
Colombia
Group D  #3 Brazil, #9 Norway, #11 Australia, Equatorial Guinea
Group C Schedule
June 28: Colombia vs. Sweden, 9 a.m. (ESPN)
June 28: United States vs. North Korea, 12:15 p.m. (ESPN)
July 2: North Korea vs. Sweden, 8 a.m. (ESPN2)
July 2: United States vs. Colombia, noon (ESPN)
July 6: Sweden vs. United States, 2:45 p.m. (ESPN)
July 6: North Korea vs. Colombia, 2:45 p.m. (ESPN2)
July 9-10: Quarterfinals
July 13: Semifinals
July 16: Third-place game
July 17: FinalAbby Wambach
 Heather Mitts
Loss spoils Randall’s stellar start
ketball and baseball, and with 
their backs against the wall, they’ll throw freshman Karsten Whitson (8-0,  2.43 ERA) against Gamecocks’ ace Michael Roth (13-3, 0.98 ERA) tonight at 8 p.m. in Game 2 of the best-of-three championship series. 
“We experienced it against 
Mississippi State. We just have to put it behind us,” said UF designated hitter Brian Johnson. 
“Tomorrow is a new day”
The Gamecocks again dis-
played their late inning magic 
Monday, exiting the ninth in-
ning unscathed with a 4-2-3 
double play after the Gators 
(53-18) loaded the bases. 
Florida missed another 
chance to walk-off in the 10th 
inning, as USC left fielder Jake 
Williams gunned down Cody Dent, who led off the frame with a single, at the plate to pre-
serve the tie.
USC closer Matt Price, who 
tossed 90-plus pitches in South 
Carolina’s win Friday night, re-
corded his 19th save. 
“The most frustrating thing 
is we wasted too many chanc-es,” UF starting pitcher Hudson Randall said. 
“The team that beat us today 
is ourselves.”
The devastating loss wasted 
a valiant effort from Randall. The Gators ace was strong for seven innings, but in the eighth 
the sophomore coughed up the 
tying run after issuing a leadoff walk to USC shortstop Peter Mooney. 
With two outs, Scott Wingo 
ripped an RBI single up the middle to square the contest at one. 
“We had our opportuni-
ties. Wingo makes a great play . ...That was probably the most pivotal part of the game,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. 
“It was a frustrating game for 
us at the end there, but they’re the defending national champs for a reason.The second baseman’s pair 
of defensive heroics in the ninth were also a major factor in the Gamecocks’ comeback win. 
But for the first seven in-
nings, Randall flaunted his im-peccable command, throwing 
18 first-pitch strikes, going to a 
three-ball count just once and stifling the Gamecocks’ bats. 
After Dent booted a ball in 
the second, Randall pitched around the third baseman’s fifth error of the year, retiring 18 of the next 19 batters he faced.   
The Gators manufactured 
their lone run in the third, tak-ing an early 1-0 lead on a sacri-fice fly from Dent. 
The sophomore infielder 
plated just his seventh run on the year, scoring Tyler Thomp-son, led off the inning with a four-pitch walk and later reached third on a wild pitch.  
Two hours before the dra-
matics ensued, most of the pregame theater surrounded Walker. 
Late Sunday , word leaked 
that the Gamecocks’ leader in average (.355) and homers (10) had a stress fracture in his left wrist and would be doubtful 
for the series. 
He was not in the origi-
nal lineup Monday , but after 
knocking out several long balls in batting practice, Tanner was convinced he could play .  
In his first at-bat of the game, 
Walker sliced a double down the right field line and later 
scored the winning run. 
CWS , from page 1
AP PHOTO
Florida starting pitcher Hudson Randall shutdown South 
Carolina, throwing 18 first-pitch strikes with just one walk.  
 John Boothe and Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff