We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 36 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n  Florida senior 
forward Chandler 
Parsons (right) will 
return to the court 
after sitting out due 
to injury but likely 
won’t start as UF 
takes on Georgia 
tonight in the 
O’Connell Center.
See Story, Page 17.By HANNAH WINSTON, 
ALEXANDER KLAUSNER 
and MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writers
After almost two months of campaigning, 
the hard work paid off for the Unite Party 
once again.
Or maybe it was Ben Meyers’ lucky 
shorts.
The Unite Party won the majority of the 
Student Senate seats, claiming the executive ticket as well with Meyers leading the way as 
the UF’s next Student Body president. 
The Unite Party won 39 of the 50 Student 
Senate seats up for election. The Progress Par -
ty won 11 Senate seats. 
There was a tie between two Progress 
candidates for one of the 10 graduate student 
seats. The Student Senate will vote again for that seat during next week’s meeting. 
“We are so pumped and ready to go from 
day one,” Meyers said after the results were 
announced.
Meyers and his running mate, Anthony 
Reynolds, won 68 percent of the votes. The 
Progress Party candidates for Student Body President, Dave Schneider, and vice president, Cassia Laham, won 32 percent of the votes.
TJ Villamil, the Unite Party candidate for 
Student Body treasurer, won over the Prog-ress Party’s candidate, Amy Chaildin, by 2,977 votes.
According to Supervisor of Elections 
Amanda Griffin, 8,645 students voted during the two-day election.Ninety percent of students who voted 
were opposed to the implementation of block tuition. 
Last spring, 9,775 students voted in the SG 
executive election.
The Progress Party grabbed 11 Senate seats, 
including one of the two pharmacy seats, the law seat and nine of the 10 graduate student seats. In the fall election, only one Progress Party candidate, Jose Soto, won a seat.
Griffin announced the results of the elec-
tions early Thursday morning to a crowd dancing on the steps of the amphitheater, yell-ing at the top of their lungs “Unite” and “Soli-
darity forever.”
Meyers’ parents stood in the crowd, 
wrapped around each other for warmth from 
the February chill, to support their son.
“It’s great when parents are in it, but it’s 
100 times better when your child is in it,” said Meyers’ father, Drew.
Reynolds is the first member of the Asian 
American Student Union to be elected as vice 
president.
“It meant so much to me to see how many 
of the [AASU] were out here,” Reynolds said.
He said he can’t wait to represent the 
AASU more and will spend the next few months working even closer with current vice president Marcus Dixon to prepare himself.
Villamil said the Senate will make sure the 
Board of Trustees hear what the students had 
to say about block tuition.
“I’m so proud to finally use that number 
against the Board of Trustees,” Villamil said
Schneider, in a speech to his party after the 
results were announced, said he was disap-pointed with his defeat but will continue his role as a student activist and member of the minority party.
“This is a tough thing,” he said. “We con-
front a Student Government machine that most cities don’t even encounter.”
Schneider said even after the loss he is al-
Paramedics respond to injured employee at Pollo Tropical
Paramedics responded to a 911 call at 
the Reitz Union on Wednesday night.
According to a Reitz Union injury re-
port, Jonneshia Prude, an employee at  Pol-
lo Tropical, was hit in the head after reach-ing for pans on the top shelf of a rack.
Prude, a Santa Fe College student work-
ing for Gator Dining Services, said she was fine and continued working, according to a witness from the report.She collapsed soon after entering a 
walk-in cooler.
An employee then called Gainesville 
Fire Rescue at approximately  7:23 p.m. 
Prude was taken by stretcher to North 
Florida Regional Medical Center wearing a neck brace.
The manager of Pollo Tropical would 
not comment on the incident.
— MATTHEW RIVA
Partly 
cloudy
80/56FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 17
MEET YOUR NEW PRESIDENT
Ben Meyers
D.O.B:  April 5, 1990
Major: Food and resource economics 
Hometown: Boca Raton
Meyers has been working his way 
up in the ranks of Student Government 
since he became a senator in spring 2009. He last served as Student Senate president. The first things on the agenda once he is sworn in are opposing the implementation of block tuition, provid-ing free printing throughout campus and implementing the soft closing for bars. MEYERS WINS PRESIDENCY
Unite takes 39 of 50 Senate seats
SEE ELECTION, PA gE 4
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Newly elected Student Body President Ben Meyers, second from right, celebrates the announcement of his winning at the Reitz Union Amphitheater early Thursday morning. Meyers’ Unite Party took 39 student senate seats, while the  Progress Party took 11 seats.
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 36 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classiﬁ  eds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Saﬁ  d Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Spencer Christen,  
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classiﬁ  ed Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
FestivUs
Today, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasThis event is a global cultural 
celebrating the native arts and 
history of the diverse student population at the UF. Experience an afternoon of ethnic expo-sure through the arts including dance, song and poetry from nu-merous cultural organizations represented. Become informed of the rich history that resides 
underneath. Co-Sponsored by 
Student Government.
College Republicans Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.Reitz Union room 346The meeting is free and open to the public. 
REduce Your Use: Crochet Your 
Own Coffee KoozieToday, 8 p.m.Reitz Union Room 363The Office of Sustainability is partnering with RUB and Close-Knit Gators to help reduce waste on campus. Come out to learn how to crochet your own 
coffee sleeve and reduce waste. 
No previous crochet experience is needed, and materials will be provided. Supplies and room capacity are limited, so get there early . For more information on the REthink program, visit sus-tainable.ufl.edu/rethink.
Study Abroad in Europe Info 
SessionFriday, 2 p.m.Turlington Hall 3312Last chance to learn all about donate, and all proceeds will be 
given to to Relay for Life. 
5th Annual North Florida 
Crossword Puzzle 
Tournament
Saturday, 9 a.m. To 1 p.m.Terrace Room, Norman HallOpen to puzzlers of all interest levels. Discount for student reg-
istration. Winner will receive a 
trip to Nationals in Brooklyn, N.Y . All proceeds benefit Caleb’s Pitch. To register or for more information, visit caleb-spitch.org or call 352-215-5440.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an e-mail with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper.summer programs in Poland, 
Belgium and Austria. The 
Center for European Studies will tell all about its six-week programs this summer. Call 392-8902 for more informa-tion.
27th Annual Maguire Appellate 
Advocacy Competition
Friday, 10 a.m.
Martin H. Levin Advocacy Center, UF Law campusThe UF Levin College of Law will welcome all seven cur-rent Florida Supreme Court justices for the competition. The Maguire competition provides the Florida Moot 
Court Team with valuable 
practice and the Florida Supreme Court justices will offer helpful critiques re-garding their oral arguments before the members go on to compete in the upcoming American Bar Association National Appellate Advocacy 
Competition. For more info, 
contact C. Andrew Roy at aroy .law@gmail.com. 
Theatre Strike Force improv 
marathonFriday, noon to midnightOrange & BrewStudents are encouraged to 
PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/55SUNNY
81/56THUNDER
STORMS
80/53MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
 THE GROUP VISITS 
SCHOOLS AND NURSING HOMES.
By KATY DORAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
What have blue eyes, frequent 
McDonald’s and are about 20 inch-
es tall?
Debbie Garcia-Bengochea 
knows the answer.
Garcia-Bengochea started Gen-
tle Carousel Miniture Therapy 
Horses, home of the 27 miniature 
horses that match this description.
The nonprofit organization, lo-
cated in High Springs, offers ther -
apy to children, residents of nurs-ing and hospice homes and people 
who’ve been abused.
Dara Cohen brought her 4-year-
old daughter, Simi, to see the hors-es at the Millhopper Branch of the 
Alachua County Library District on Tuesday for Gentle Carousel’s 
last Valentine’s Day event.
Cohen couldn’t believe the 
size.
“But it’s not just that they’re 
cute,” she said. “They’re actually 
doing something really nice.”
Gentle Carousel also works 
with the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office in community service proj-ects, Garcia-Bengochea said, and 
will receive a community award 
for its impact.
Garcia-Bengochea 
started the organiza-
tion with her hus-
band to teach their four foster chil-
dren to trust people by interacting 
with horses.
Ann Marie Malave can testify 
to Gentle Carousel and its horses’ influence.
She hadn’t spoken in years. Garcia-Bengochea said Magic, 
one of the horses, walked into Ma-
lave’s nursing home. Malave start-
ing petting her, talking to her and even said to her crying activities 
director, “I love you.”
She’s been speaking ever since.
The horses aren’t comfortable 
with humans naturally but are “imprinted” at birth, or touched and handled, to make the animals 
trainable and comfortable with 
people.
Once trained, the horses are tak-
en to homes, hospitals and other locations where people pet them, hold them and read books written 
specifically for each of the horses’ 
characters.
Garcia-Bengochea said the hors-
es are small enough to fit in cars. 
She said they also puzzle work-
ers at drive-through windows like 
those at McDonald’s, who assume 
the animals to be dogs at first sight.Non-profit  
uses mini horses to help heal
NewsLocalTHE ORGANIZATION WANTS HER TO 
PERFORM FOR PRIDE AWARENESS MONTH.
By HANNAH SWERDLOFF
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sometimes a little bird is all it takes.  
Pride Student Union launched a Twitter cam-
paign Thursday to bring Lady Gaga to UF for Pride Awareness Month, which will take place March 28 to April 20. 
The PAM director of speakers, Jose Mata, cre-
ated a Facebook event to invite 
students to participate. He urged 
them to mention her username on Twitter as often as possible from now until April to get her atten-
tion. Six days later, about 1,280 
students are “attending” the 
event, according to Facebook.
Lady Gaga will be touring 
south and central Florida from April 12 to April 16 
during PAM’s programming, he said. 
“We want someone to embody the things that 
we support,” he said. “We want someone who is a 
great model and inspiration to everyone.” 
Accent Speakers Bureau Chairman Zack Gold-
stein said if Lady Gaga were to ask for money, she would cost more than $100,000. Also, while she is on tour there probably isn’t room for schedule changes.
It really depends on whether she feels for the 
people at UF and how many people tweet, he said.
With the budget already allocated for the se-
mester, Accent would be unable to provide co-
sponsorship, he said.By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
Lucy Sullivan wanted her 
daughter to have a perfect wed-
ding. But perfection can be expen-sive.
Then she found the Thomas 
Center.
“As soon as I saw it I thought to 
myself, ‘This is it,’” she said.
She wasn’t the only one with 
the idea.
The Thomas Center, located 
at 302 NE Sixth Ave., was ranked among the most popular wedding 
sites in North Florida this year by 
theknot.com, a wedding-planning website. This is the fourth year the 
center has received the title.
Sullivan’s 26-year-old daugh-
ter, Kelly, was married under the expansive branches of a live oak 
where Spanish moss hung like chandeliers.
The reception took place in a 
room with a glass ceiling and white arches around the sides.
“Everybody who went was so awed by the beauty of it,” she said.
The center charges on a room-
by-room basis, said Thomas Cen-ter Facilities Coordinator Erica Chatman. Each room has its own 
per-hour rate.
It costs about $2,300 to rent more 
than five rooms and courtyards for the wedding, and Chatman said it 
usually costs between $1,300 and $2,500 to rent enough space.
She said weddings need to be 
booked about a year in advance.
Sullivan said her family made 
the October 2010 reservation that January. At that point, there were only two nights available for the 
year.
The staff also contributes to the 
center’s popularity, Sullivan said.
“Erica [Chatman] bent over 
backwards to make sure every-
thing got done,” she said.
Chatman said she and the rest 
of the staff work hard to make ev-erything perfect for the bride and 
groom.
“We don’t want them to really 
have to lift a finger,” she said.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
The Thomas Center in Gainesville has been named one of the top places in North Florida to get married 
by theknot.com, a marriage-oriented website.
AROUND GAINESVILLE
Thomas Center makes list of top spots to tie the knot
Lady Gaga
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Prior to the announcement of election results, Progress Party members chant a modified version of “The Battle 
Hymn of the Republic.” The Progress Party took 11 seats total, one of which was a tie.
Pride Union 
hopes tweets can lure Gaga90 percent of students opposed block tuition
ready looking ahead to the next elec-
tion.
“We’re going to get the whole sys-
tem changed from the grassroots up,” he said.
Laham, the Progress Party candi-
date for vice president, said even the small number of seats her party won felt like a victory.
“Being the underdog feels great,” 
she said. “So many people feel disil-lusioned because they don’t feel like they’re being represented.”Besides voting for their SG repre-
sentatives, 90 percent of students who voted opposed the implementation of block tuition. 
If implemented, full-time students 
would have to pay a flat-rate tuition for 
15 credit hours  no mat-ter how 
many credits they are registered for.
Both parties promised to stand 
against the implementation of block tu-ition if elected.
Griffin said the results of the elec-tion and the block tuition referendum question were straightforward. 
“It is pretty clear what the students 
want,” Griffin said.
Ashton Charles, the current Student 
Body president and a member of the Unite Party, said she is very proud of Meyers’ accomplishment.
“It’s truly an honor for the best pos-
sible candidate to succeed me,” she said.
Now that Meyers is 4-0 in student 
elections, the question is, what’s next for his lucky shorts?
“Now I can wash them,” he said. ELECTION , from page 1
Student Go vernment
ElectionsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL CRIME
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
When Chief Tony Jones be-
came head of the Gainesville Po-
lice Department in 2009, one of 
his goals was to decrease crime 
in the city by 5 percent. 
GPD officers shattered this 
goal in 2010 as overall crime rates 
dropped by 16.3 percent, accord-
ing to this year’s Uniform Crime Report. 
Violent crimes decreased by 
21.6 percent, including a 9.5 per -cent decrease in rape crimes and a 24.1 percent drop in aggravated 
assaults. 
Property crime also fell by 15.3 
percent. Burglaries fell by 18.4 
percent, robbery by 16.7 percent 
and larceny by 13.4 percent. 
GPD also increased its number 
of arrests in 2010. 
According to GPD spokes-
woman Tscharna Senn, these re-ductions are due to the efforts of 
both police officers and members of the Gainesville community.
“We’re reducing crimes dra-matically, and the crimes that 
are happening we’re solving at 
a much greater rate,” she said. “That is great, especially in a 
town that’s growing.”
The department shifted many 
police officers back onto patrol 
shifts last year, increasing the number of officers on the streets. Senn said this not only in-
creased the level and quality of 
customer service they were able 
to provide to residents but also increased the number of crimes they were able to prevent and 
solve.
The role of Gainesville resi-
dents in reducing the crime rate 
is also important, she said. Com-munity members provided tips to 
officers about crimes in progress 
and potential crimes, such as sus-picious activity in an area, that helped them solve many crimes and prevent many more from ever happening.
“They are so many more 
eyes and ears for us,” Senn said. “There are a lot more [residents] out in the community than there 
are of us.”
She also said residents who 
take preventative measures to 
protect themselves contributed to the drop.
Senn said efforts such as lock-
ing their doors before leaving the house, helped cut down on crime. GPD reports 16.3 percent drop in crime in 2010
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Four UF law students studying abroad in New Zealand 
are safe after the country was rocked by an earthquake 
earlier this week, UF officials confirmed Wednesday. 
The earthquake, which has left billions of dollars in 
damage and killed at least 75 people, struck the island Tuesday.
According to the UF Levin College of Law’s Facebook 
page, the students, who are studying in the city of Christchurch, were not in their housing when the earthquake 
hit. Their housing and belongings, the 
page said, may have been destroyed. 
Matt Walker, media relations manager for UF Levin College of Law, could not release the students’ names 
due to student confidentiality but did say the students are safe. It is unknown whether they will be able to complete 
their study-abroad program, which was supposed to last 
for the semester. 
Analysts estimate that the earthquake, which regis-
tered a 6.3 magnitude, left up to $12 billion in damages. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report.Four UF students in New Zealand safe after earthquake“We’re reducing crimes 
dramatically.”
Tscharna Senn
GPD spokeswoman
NewsInternationalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
67% YES
33% NO
51 TOTAL VOTESToday’s question: Have you ever made a prank call?Wednesday’s question: Do you think you are getting your money’s worth from UF?Focus is Overrated
Too distracted to get 
that paper written in one sitting? 
Yeah, us too. In course of writing this 
editorial, we’ve lost focus countless times, distracted 
by conversations, vegetable 
stew and the Jeopardy! Teen 
Tournament. 
It’s definitely not some-
thing to be proud of, but 
our faltering attention span 
may be helping us, accord-
ing to a study by research-ers at the University of Memphis and the Univer -
sity of Michigan.
They noticed a correla-
tion between people who found themselves unable to focus on a task when 
confronted with back-
ground noise and the level of creative problem-solving skills. 
So it is the people who 
don’t just plant themselves in front of the computer to hack out a paper who are more likely to look at a top-
ic from different angles. In 
short, they are more open-minded. 
Therefore, when con-
fronted with a problem re-quiring us to look past the first thing that pops into our minds, being off-task can help introduce some 
variety to our line of think-
ing. 
Of course, being unable 
to focus at all is a problem 
because we have to act 
upon the creative ideas we get. 
Brainstorming by itself 
isn’t enough.
So the next time you’re 
daydreaming when you’re supposed be doing home-work, remember that you’re 
striking a balance between 
your creative and logical sides. Joke’s on Us
Prank call raises questions 
about journalism
Sure, Ian Murphy, the editor of the Buffalo Beast, got some interesting information out of Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker. The problem is most journalism orga-
nizations don’t qualify prank calls as a method of gaining information. Murphy’s call wasn’t exactly the grown-up version of “Is your refrigerator running?” He imperson-ated one of the governor’s top financial supporters, bil-
lionaire David Koch. From his 20-minute conversation, he 
fished out information on how Gov. Walker was planning to bring the Democrats back into the state.
We’re seeing sleaze on both sides here.Obviously, Gov. Walker’s discussion on planting trou-
blemakers and distracting the opposing party as he tries to pass a law against collective bargaining shows his un-derhanded side. At the same time, however, we have a journalist who impersonated someone else and recorded 
the conversation to put online. We understand Murphy’s 
desire to see if the governor would respond to a call from a supporter when he wasn’t answering the phone for Demo-crats, but we draw the line at impersonation. So does the Society of Professional Journalists. Unfortunately, in a 
world where blogging overlaps with what traditionally is 
defined as journalism, we’re going to see more of these debates arising: Bloggers are becoming journalism vigilan-tes as they seek to accomplish the same goals but don’t 
abide by the established rules, but do the ends justify the 
means?
Collective bargaining under pressure
The year 2011 certainly has been the year of the pro-
testor, from Cairo to Yemen to — Wisconsin? In the past three weeks, Madison, Wis. has been the 
epicenter of a larger political schism in the works since November. As newly elected governors reveal their bud-gets, many Wisconsin Democrats and workers feel that the governors’ budgets focus more on excising the abil-ity of unions to collectively bargain, a right that ironically originated in their own state.  
Regarding the situation in Wisconsin, I do not appreci-
ate the manner in which the state senate Democrats have 
acted, fleeing the state to prevent the quorum needed for 
the Republicans to pass the bill. The move is less than 
professional, and it gives the Republicans incentive to act similarly in the future. However, it allowed the issue to take center stage. The argument here is not regarding the 
looming budget deficit the state of Wisconsin and many 
others are facing but the ability for public state employees 
to collectively bargain for fair wages and compensation.  
The interesting point for Gov. Walker is that he ex-
empts firefighter and police unions from the bill. The gov-ernor claims it is all a plan for fiscal sustainability, yet he and the Republicans picked which unions to remove. This plan sounds not like a sincere effort to close the state’s deficit but like a plot to create a schism between both la-bor factions, which have failed to materialize so far.  
Conservatives often cite that public employees have 
better wages than those of the private sector and that they are a significant contributor to a state’s expenditures. The reality may come as a surprise to many, but a comparison of public workers to private sector workers shows that public sector workers have higher rates of educational at-tainment than the private sector as a whole.  
Using the state of Wisconsin as an example, more than 60 percent of state workers have at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with just more than 20 percent in the private sector. However, when accounting for equal educational levels, the public sector employees are un-derpaid substantially. 
A recent study by the non-
partisan group Economic Policy Institute concluded that public sector workers earn 14.2 percent less than compa-
rable workers in the private sector. Even when benefits 
and health care plans are included in total compensation, 
public workers earn 8.2 percent less than those in the pri-vate sector. 
Teachers, nurses and others in the public sector are un-
derpaid but are the first to make concessions during hard 
times. It’s blatantly foolish and illogical to paint the pub-
lic sector workers as causes of a state’s fiscal malaise. 
When we compare the fiscal well-being of states that 
give public workers the ability to collectively bargain with those that do not, there’s no difference.  States where workers do not have the ability to collectively bargain such as Arizona and South Carolina have deficits of the same magnitude when using the percentage of debt to state gross domestic product as a scale. 
The end result most likely will be Gov. Walker’s de-
mands being met, removing the ability of the state’s pub-lic workers to collectively bargain. Gov. Kasich of Ohio also will fulfull his desires of calling the unions satisfied. 
Ultimately, the most important lesson learned here is 
that elections have consequences. 
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering 
student. His column appears on Thursdays.
Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.org
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Over the past few decades, the market for video 
games in the United States has grown exponentially and has become a wildly successful and lucrative 
business within the entertainment industry. Sport video games have become a particularly flourishing genre of the  industry and comprise approximately 15.3 percent of total game sales. 
Entertainment and video game manufacturer Electronic 
Arts is a leviathan in the sports video games market and prides itself on its unparalleled ability to provide visual au-thenticity in replicating a sport.
Due to rewarding licensing contracts, publishers such as 
EA are granted the legal ability to brandish league logos, teams, uniforms, exact specifications of stadiums and coach and player likenesses to enhance the reality of their profes-sional and collegiate sports games.  
Of course, EA compensates professional athletes for the 
use of their identities in the wildly popular Madden NFL and NBA Elite video game franchises through an agreement reached between EA, the NFL, the NBA and each league’s players association. 
Our Florida Gator athletes, on the other hand, receive 
no such lucrative royalties from EA’s NCAA Basketball or NCAA Football game franchises due to restrictions set forth by suffocating NCAA bylaws, which require student ath-
letes to maintain their amateur status and are therefore pro-
hibited from being compensated when their physical like-ness is used in any commercial products. Just imagine the profits Florida accumulated selling generic No. 15 jerseys throughout the Tim Tebow era.
In the summer of 2009, Sam Keller, 
a former University of Nebraska quar -
terback, filed a class action lawsuit in 
the California Northern District Court on behalf of various college football and basketball players. The crux of Keller’s argument was that the images of student athletes were ex-
ploited and used without permission by EA to construct a 
realistic representation of college sports in the NCAA Foot-ball and NCAA Basketball video game franchises. Keller claimed EA deprived him and other collegiate athletes of their publicity rights and right to profit from their own im-
ages. The athletes involved seek to recoup profits from EA 
and to seize games that continue to infringe on athletes’ rights.
Under the California law in question, Keller not only 
must establish that EA utilized student-athlete likenesses in its video games but also must prove that EA benefited spe-cifically through the use of such exploited representation. 
Keller alleged that EA’s illegal use of player likeness in its 
collegiate sports games is integral to the games’ heightened 
realism and in turn has translated into increased sales and 
increased revenues for EA. According to Keller’s complaint, the increase in revenue would provide EA with a commer -
cial advantage through the use of student athlete likenesses 
and therefore is in violation of California statute. 
In 1994, McFarland v. Miller established that the doctrine 
of the right of publicity has indeed provided protection to 
individuals (in this case, student athletes) to regulate the commercial value and exploitation of one’s identity or like-ness and to lawfully prohibit others from unjustly profiting from such use .
But since collegiate athletes are required to comply with 
NCAA bylaws as a precondition to participate in NCAA-sponsored sporting events, the court may very well find that Keller and his class lawfully have waived their pub-licity rights by means of their signed agreement with the NCAA.
If the court’s final verdict is in favor of  Keller and the 
class, the NCAA’s relationship with EA would change dras-tically along with the valued amateur status of student-ath-letes.  The NCAA and EA could resolve this issue by alter -
ing the currently established and suffocating NCAA bylaws to allow usage of student athlete likenesses and contribute a fair percentage of royalties from the video games to the Stu-dent Athlete Opportunity Fund. This fund would then pro-vide former and existing student athletes with monetary as-
sistance upon demonstration of financial or academic need. 
It must be recognized that most student athletes will not 
move on to the pros, play a game they love for a career, bank 
millions of dollars, retire and live the rest of their lives luxu-
riously, relaxing on the beach. Nevertheless, they sacrifice 
their bodies, compromise their GPAs and forfeit months at a 
time to train, practice, travel and perform. 
In any other situation, such an extenuation of labor and 
physical risk coupled with a marketable image would reap 
compensation. Collegiate athletes should be no exception.
Brett Wagner is a UF student.
Gator athletes deserve compensation for game likenessesGuest column
Brett Wagner
Speaking Out
Feeling sluggish lately? Are you 
tired, unmotivated, crabby or short-tempered? While, admittedly, some 
(OK, probably most) of those feelings may stem from 12 hours of homework, classes 
and work you do every day, there is a 
good chance that what you’re eating may contribute as well.
As college students, we understand-
ably go for the foods that are the easiest on our wallets, which usually means pro-cessed foods.
Most fruits and vegetables that show 
up at your local grocery store have been 
grown under the protection of chemical 
cocktails, which guard crops from insects and diseases and also help the grower produce higher yields. In the same fash-ion, much of the meat we eat comes from animals fed with hay or grains containing the same chemicals. These animals are also commonly injected with hormones or vaccines. Those chemicals are, in turn, 
passed on to us as consumers.
Now, I understand that there are ben-
efits of producing chemically altered food. 
In a world where population is booming and we are facing global food shortages, it may not be possible to feed entire popula-tions with organic food.
However, our bodies were not made to 
process many of the chemicals that show 
up in conventionally produced foods.
Studies have linked these chemicals to 
obesity and cancer. They also contribute 
to behavioral problems in children, sleep loss and a decline in overall well-being.
Organically grown produce is typically 
better for both the body and mind.
In a 10-year study conducted by the 
University of California, Davis, research-
ers found that organically grown toma-
toes produced large amounts of the anti-oxidants quercetin and kaempferol, which help prevent heart disease. The quantities of antioxidants in organic tomatoes were more than 95 per -
cent higher than in those grown con-ventionally.
Ever had raw, organic milk? Squeam 
all you want, but milk from grass-fed, organic cows is not only delicious; it has more antioxidants, omega-3 fatty acids and vitamins than nonorganic milk.
Additionally, going organic is a great 
choice if you are trying to be environmen-tally friendly. If a farmer isn’t using chem-icals and pesticides on the crop, they can’t get into the soil, water or air.
As far as I’m concerned, the best part 
about going organic is that the food actu-ally tastes better. Try it for yourself. Buy some USDA-certified organic bananas. You will be able to tell the difference, I give you my word.
The biggest issue for college students 
going organic is cost. Because farmers simply cannot produce as large of a yield 
of organic foods as they would conven-
tional, prices are higher.
And, on a college budget, it is nearly 
impossible to eat only organic foods.
However, college is a good time to 
think about introducing organic food into your diet and perhaps making the full switch later on in life.
I’ll admit it: The apples and oranges 
in my fridge are conventionally grown. However, the bananas are not. While it is expensive, students may find comfort in the fact that they are essentially making an investment in their health for the long run when they eat organic food.
Even if the idea of raw milk makes you 
nauseous, or the thought of paying twice as much for a pound of grass-fed beef 
hurts your bottom line, the idea of flood -
ing your body with chemicals and pesti-
cides can’t be much better. 
Minnesota Daily, U. Minnesota via 
UWIREOrganic foods worth a shot The situation in the Middle East 
keeps getting worse, like a bad 
math equation that will not bal-
ance itself out. After Hosni Mubarak’s 
ouster in Egypt, so-called democratic revolutions struck Libya and Yemen. Now it is Bahrain’s turn. But before we muster up another dollop of heart-felt compassion for the people of Bahrain, we should ponder why and where the equation has gone wrong. An Egypt-style mass revolution is not necessarily the solution.
The argument from the people of 
Bahrain seems to revolve around the same “pro-democracy and down with the current administration” rhetoric that has filled a few nations in the neighbor -
hood recently. This outcry is not really surprising when you consider what the administration in Bahrain looks like.
According to the BBC, Bahrain’s 
King Sheikh Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifah has been the all-powerful entity since 1999. He controls the parliament and elects members to the Upper House — including the prime minister, who has remained in power since 1971. All this is evidence enough that Bahrain is re-ally a pseudo-democracy, which is not something that any population would choose to endure for too long.
While seemingly ripe for its own 
revolution, Bahrain and Egypt’s pro-tests are far removed from each other.
Firstly, looking at the economics of 
the island nation, it is easy to rule out that economic development is the prob-lem right now. The per capita GDP of Bahrain is $25,420, according to 2009 World Bank statistics, a figure com-parable to many developed countries. On the other hand, per capita GDP of Egypt hovers around the $2,000 mark and 40 percent of Egyptians live on the poverty line, earning just $2 a day while Mubarak was raking in billions.
Secondly, the difference between toppling a single 
dictator in Egypt 
and a monarchy 
in power since 
1783 in Bahrain, which has complete control over the administration, is vast. In Egypt’s case, the military was de-termined to protect the citizens from violent clashes with the Egyptian po-lice. But being a monarchy, the Bahrain king sent out an absolute message to the people protesting in Pearl Square on Feb. 17 — go home or perish. Un-like Mubarak, he has the backing of the military.
Lastly, the crux of the uprising is de-
ciphered by reading between the lines; an old religious rift which has time and again raised its rather inconvenient head. It revolves around the clash be-tween the two Muslim sects — Shia and Sunni, which has gone on for a few hun-dred years. The majority of Bahrain’s population are Shiite who are ruled over by a minority Sunni regime — a fact which is reflected in Saudi Arabia’s soft spot toward Bahrain. The popular belief in the administration also seems to be that Iran is fueling the fervor on the streets of Bahrain. Of course, this notion stems from the fact that Iran has a Shia regime. It is speculation at its best.
Self-flagellation by the common per -
son is hardly the answer to an admin-istrative problem. Bahrain has been a prosperous nation for a while. The ab-solute last thing it needs is a religious-based wound opening up for radical opportunists to take advantage of. The need of the hour is for both the people and regime of Bahrain to maintain peace and hopefully put an end to any further violent clashes. They need to take the lead and show the proper way forward for other nations to follow.
Daily Evergreen, Washington State U. 
via UWIRE
Bahrain different from EgyptUWire
Manan Desai
UWireUWire
Ashley Bray
UWiretheAvenue         thursday, february 24, 2011
ListThe-Learn about the music industry’s 
downward spiral and how one local record label is combating 
the harsh times.
-Feel the bass: Get an inside look at Basscamp’s premiere at The 
Vault last week.
-Preview the fourth annual Win-ter Fine Arts Fair.-See how one UF student is setting her sights on a gem of a future.ONLINE:INSIDE:
PG 9: Ever wonder what’s play-
ing in UF basketball player Kenny Boynton’s earbuds? Tune into the Avenue’s last installment of AMPED: with UF athletes.
PG 10: Get in on the antics of 
two seasoned Gainesville mu-sicians and their latest project, The Slims.
PG 12: After Apple released 
its latest technology craze, the iPad, other companies followed suit — and now schools nation-wide are, too.
by LAUREN GOLDLISTEN: “Young Blood” by 
The Naked + Famous
After hearing it on the CW’s “Gossip Girl,” 
we got hooked. If you need an iPod update, check out this band. You’ll be pleasantly surprised by the refreshing vocals and in-strumentals.
SEE: Acadamy Award nominees
With no blockbusters hitting theaters this weekend, catch up on critics’ favorite films of the year. From “Black Swan” to “Incep-tion,” your weekend will be anything but boring.
WATCH:  83rd Academy Awards
Tune in to ABC at 8 p.m. Sunday for the most talked-about awards show of the season. We’d like to thank the Academy for all of the amazing and horrifying fashion we’re sure to see.
GO: 5k Miracle Run
Give back to the community while doing something good for yourself, too. At 8 a.m. Sunday, team up with the Panhellenic Coun-cil for the Dance Marathon 5k Miracle Run. Proceeds benefit Children’s Miracle Network. 
Register at www.floridadm.org for $15 or on 
Sunday at the Commuter Lot for $20.Gainesville’s best-kept secret: house shows 
By BENJAMIN EVANS
avenue writer  
About an hour before a swarm of college kids 
stampeded into his house with faces flushed the 
color of red Solo Cups, Michael Newman sat in his room relaxing, waiting for the dancing to begin. 
Walking to the couch in his room is like walk -
ing through a forest of polyvinyl chloride and card-board. Stacks and crates of records take up more floor space than his bed. Where a desk in an ordi-nary room would stand, turntables sit.
Newman,  an English junior at UF,  began host-
ing house parties with local disc jockeys last se -
mester, and these parties are about as far from clubs as you can get. No bouncer. No DJ time slots. No plastic banners promoting the host. No need to wear anything other than what you wore that day.  
Still, people dance. When the clock strikes drunk, the living room becomes their nightclub.
House shows have been part of Gainesville’s 
culture for years. With a handful of indepen-dent record labels in town and plenty of student bands, there seem to be parties every week with someone strumming a guitar in a kitchen or with a DJ spinning records by a shed. In fact, the sec-ond I began writing this story, a band next door began its set in the backyard, which party-goers soon followed with a sing-along to “Purple Rain.”  
   Newman got into music when he was about 12 years old. He started going to shows at Sound Idea, a since-closed punk record shop and venue in Brandon, Fla., known for spawning the kind of people in Penelope Spheeris’ “The Decline of Western Civilization.” 
Newman told me about a kid he met at 
Sound Idea named Hans who once drank anti-
freeze and, when he realized it wasn’t such a sound idea, called a poison control center.  
It was at this record shop where Newman was introduced to vinyl. “For a while, I really only listened to punk, metal and hardcore,” he said. 
But eventually, he branched out when he be -
gan to DJ, getting into funk, hip-hop and soul.  
A little after midnight, it was like a party bomb went off in Newman’s house. Like shrapnel, peo -
ple spread into the backyard and into the crevices of his house.
A girl with a giant rodent-shaped backpack 
and a hat with antlers danced outside by the fire to the music flooding from inside the house. In-side, Newman did what he loves, what he tries to do whenever he saves up enough cash to get a keg, which on that night turned-out to be  more than he expected. No worries — his friend 
put $60 into the pot. The party must go on.  
Newman spun music in the corner of the living room. Party-goers moved furniture to the side to make way for jumping bodies, flying arms and swinging hips.
Live music is the element that gives the party 
something that gets lost with iPods, Newman said. 
“It’s no fun just to do it with an iPod,” he ex-
plained. “It’s always better to have a flow without constant cuts every three or four songs — some -
one who wants to switch the song when it’s in the good part.”
Molly Ryan, a UF women’s studies major, be -
gan going to house shows this summer and found herself at Newman’s place Saturday night.
“I like the intimate feel of seeing a band or 
DJ in a house,” Ryan said, moments before she made her way into the living room to dance.      “It’s more spontaneous,” she said. “Who cares what you look like when you’re dancing around a bunch of drunken friends in a living room.”Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Think outside the club:  UF English junior and local disc jockey Michael Newman spins at a house show 
Saturday night.  An integral part of local culture, house shows aren’t hard to find in Gainesville when the sun 
goes down. Come along for the ride as the Avenue walks in the shadows of this local DJ. 
hidden beatsBy EUGENIO TORRENS
avenue contributing writer
Kenny Boynton knows what he likes: rap. 
The sophomore shooting guard said, more often 
than not, it could be Weezy, Lil’ Boosie or Young Jeezy — you keep track — blowing out of his head-phones. 
His music library has expanded thanks to his 
roommate, point guard Erving Walker. Boynton 
occasionally has sided with Walker’s music taste, 
rooted in Northern rappers. 
But Boynton, a Florida native, prefers his game  
spit from the South — something he’s slowly turning 
Walker onto. 
Hear Boynton’s latest dribblin’ beats:
 “6 Foot 7 Foot” by Lil’ Wayne“I like that song because it was his first song out 
from when he got out of jail. Everybody was wait-
ing to see what kind of music he was going to put 
out, and I thought it was a good song to come out with.”
“Mind of A Maniac” by Lil’ Boosie
“He just expressed his feelings on that song. I 
like him as a rapper. He’s always in the booth.”
“Done It” by Young Jeezy
“It was a song I used to listen to in high school 
before my games. Erving Walker — he loves it,  too. Majority of the time, I listen to that song [before a 
game].”
“Word Play” by Young Jeezy
“That came out during Hurricane Katrina. It re -
lated a lot to what was going on.”
“We Gone Miss You” by Lil’ Boosie “He went away, and it was just about him telling 
everybody he was going to miss each of his kids and everyone that brought him up.”
“2 Smooth” by Webbie
“I don’t know why I like that song, but I probably 
listen to that everyday, honestly.”
“Don’t Talk to Me” by B.G.
“I used to listen to that in high school. That was 
one of my favorites. He was real popular for a long time, then he went away, then he came back. Ba-sically, he’s telling people that weren’t his friends that he was back on top.” 
“This is the Carter” by Lil’ Wayne
“I think [The Carter 1] was one of his best al-
bums ever. That was my favorite song on that al-bum. He put a lot into that song; it was a lot of good punch lines in that song.”
“What More Can I Say” by Jay-Z“I think that’s just, overall, a great song. He’s 
saying what more can he do? He’s basically the best rapper alive.”thursday, february 24, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Photo Illustration by Matt Tripp and Cynthia Despres / Alligator Staff
Kenny Boynton dribbles the ball down the court in the Stephen O’Connell Center.
AMPED with UF athletes: 
shooting guard Kenny Boynton
Spring has sprung: Fruits and veggies for the season 
By BRITT PERKINS
avenue writer
Maybe you’re starting to come to terms with the fact that 
Pop-Tarts are not a good source of fruit. Likewise, fries aren’t 
really a vegetable when it comes to nutrition. 
Here are some seasonal fruits and vegetables for a Flori-
da February. All of these choices, recommended by Hogtown 
HomeGrown Editor Stefanie Samara Hamblen, can be pur -
chased locally and prepared easily for healthier and deli-
cious meals. VEGETABLES
 Broccoli 
This vegetable is very flexible in its functionality, and it’s 
simple to prepare. Eat it raw to make the most of its nutrients and fiber.
 Carrots 
Cooking carrots can actually make their nutrients more accessible, and with a naturally sweet taste, it’s easy to for -
get how healthy they can be. Experiment with carrot soup or carrot bread if you’re feeling comfortable in the kitchen. 
 Beets
Bears, beets, Battlestar Galactica. While Dwight Schrute, 
beet grower and lover from “The Office,” may be many people’s primary source of in-formation on the ruby red root, this veggie 
is easily accessible at a local market. Beets 
can be served on salads to offer variety or roasted as a colorful side dish. Adventur -
ous bakers, try beet brownies.FRUITS
 Strawberries
Eat these fruits alone or as a way to add taste and nu -
trition to your breakfast bowl. Also, strawberries are a killer ingredient in any dessert, especially with dark chocolate.
 Grapefruit These citrus fruits are large enough to make a big snack or 
a small breakfast. Grapefruits range in flavor from extremely sour to sweet, so it is a good idea to ask the grocer or vendor what varieties they offer or ask for samples. If you are taking 
any prescription medications, it is also a good idea to ask 
your doctor about any possible interactions with grapefruit juice. 
 Oranges
What fruit is more Floridian than the orange? Get the 
freshest flavor by squeezing fresh-made juice. For a twist on the traditional, seek out recipes for orange salsa or a citrus mozzarella tower.
 Avocados
These green fruits, also known as the alligator pear, are 
known to be a source of monounsaturated fat, or good fat. Add avocado slices to a salad or a sandwich. Also try making fresh guacamole as a side for fish tacos or just something to 
dip chips in.
music  I’ve been 
hearing about how computer gaming is either dead or has been dying since 2001. And with arguably the smallest audience in 
the already niche video game industry, I admit it’s kind of shocking that computer games are still around. Even more shocking is that 
computer gaming had its best year since “Quake” and “Doom” cre-
ated the ﬁ  rst-person shooter.
 Without even considering the release of “Starcraft II,” a game 
millions of people and the entire country of South Korea have been waiting for, 2010 saw the release of high proﬁ  le titles like “Call of Duty: Black Ops,” “Mass Effect 2” and “Fallout: New Vegas,” and these were all games that managed to sell just as well as their console counterparts. Innovative independent games have also found a home on computers. Currently, the heroic computer game 
underdog is “Amnesia: The Dark Descent,” a survival-horror game 
that has sold more than 200,000 units and has received critical acclaim. Not bad for a game that so far is available only on Steam. The game owes a life debt to the platform.
  For those whose thoughts on digital distribution are limited to 
the fascist policies of Apple, Steam is a video game downloading service created by Valve, the studio behind the groundbreaking “Half-Life” series and its amazing spin-off “Portal.” Steam began in 2002 as a forward-thinking idea that seemed borderline useless 
because Valve lacked the technology to make the platform actually 
work. Because of that, it quickly became a joke in the computer community.
  However, Valve persevered until technology advanced, and the 
computer market took notice. Today, Steam has a 70 percent share of the digital distribution market and more than 30 million active members. It made about $1 billion in 2010.  That’s right: $1 billion. The computer gaming market as a whole is worth an estimated $11 billion.
  Forbes magazine called Valve’s co-
founder Gabe Newell the next “billionaire of video games.”
  When assaulted by these unfathom-
able numbers, the gut instinct is to cry foul and assume Valve has become “the man,” stealing greedily from the humble indepen-
dents and stiﬂ  ing competition. But in this case, instinct is wrong. Because of Steam, independent studios have a platform to reach 
their audiences without having to pay out the ass to retailers and 
distributors to get their games on shelves. 
  Steam also offers publishers an estimated 70 percent margin 
— compared to the estimated 30 percent margin retailers offer — and Valve’s commitment to open-sourcing its technology gives code-savvy nerds the chance to make their own games.
  In this decade, when digital distribution is one of the fastest 
growing markets in the world, it’s remarkable to think about how forward-thinking Valve was in 2002 when it predicted digital dis-
tribution would be the Internet’s future. Companies like Valve are 
what keep the American Dream alive in today’s cynical world. Valve has proven that developers with good ideas and determination can be successful. As long as smart, innovative people like those at Valve are around, computer gaming will never die. 10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, february 24, 2011
Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
UF marketing 
senior Ashley 
Rodon puts 
together a 
complete outﬁ  t, 
including a 
belt over her 
cardigan to 
accentuate her 
waist.  From 
her sunglasses 
to her oxford 
shoes, this 
outﬁ  t is head-
to-toe adorable.
Larry Rosalez, 
a ﬁ  fth-year 
advertising major 
at UF, keeps 
it casual with 
construction 
boots, a 
deconstructed 
T-shirt and  jeans.  
“I dance a lot, so I 
like to layer. I can 
take things off 
when I dance and 
put them back 
on after to go to 
class.”For the latest frills, ﬂ  air and ev-
erything fashion, check out what 
our lens caught this week. 
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistSales show computer gaming still has long half-life Local musicians get into their funk
  By TYLER FRANCISCHINE
 avenue contributing writer
 
  Hide your kids, hide your wife. The Great 
Snooky Green is taking over.
  Veteran Gainesville musicians Travis Atria 
(of Morningbell and Pseudo Kids) and Collin 
Whitlock (of The Boswellians and Cassette) 
have traded rock for funk and soul. “Killa 
Dilla,” the debut album from their soul side-project, The Slims, was released on Feb. 12. Next on their agenda is a March 30 show at Common Grounds, 210 SW Second  Ave.
  The Slims’ ﬁ  rst album follows the rise and 
fall of ﬁ  ctional soul singer Snooky Green: a lover, a cheater and the ideal Greek tragic ﬁ  gure. When we ﬁ  rst meet Snooky, he’s at 
the top of his game, but by the end of “Killa 
Dilla,” Snooky has met his demise.
  Atria and  Whitlock play all the instru-
ments on the album, except for strings, which To All My Dear Friends’ Marc Hen-nessey handles.  
  Unlike Morningbell’s music, which Atria 
writes alone, he and Whitlock wrote and re-corded The Slims’ songs together at Atria’s home recording studio.
  “This album was a dream to make,” Atria 
said. “It was almost too easy.”
  Whitlock agreed.  “Sometimes I ﬁ  nd I’m 
surprised by how much I 
like this record,” Whitlock 
said.
  Whitlock said the duo 
aimed to pay tribute to soul artists such as Al 
Green, Marvin Gaye, Smokey Robinson and Otis Redding — and not in a subtle way.
  “We wanted to rip them off as much as 
possible,” he said. 
  Atria said he enjoyed writing soul music 
because it allowed him to dabble in male chauvinism. With the lyrics anyway.   “With this character, I got to basically say, 
‘I’m a man and I’m going to have sex with everyone in this audience,’” he said. “It’s not something we could pull of otherwise being two white guys.”
  Whitlock’s favorite song on the record, 
“Believe That Shit,” features some of the most conﬁ  dent and overtly sexual lyrics: “You better scream when you say my name/ You better believe me that I’m your man.” 
  Another standout track,“Genghis Khan’s 
Cavalry,” tells of a frustrated man moving on with his life, and it features some of Whit-lock’s favorite self-written lyrics: “Don’t tell me I’m lost just because I’m leaving you/ I was never lost even when I needed you.” 
  Next, Atria said, he and Whitlock may 
come back with a second album of “sex slow jams.”
  “Why not?” he said. “No one’s stopping 
us, except for common sense and good taste.” 
thursday, february 24, 2011  uALLIGATOR, 11
uU.S. HIGH SCHOOLS, UNIVERSI-
TIES ARE  STARTING TO INSTI-
TUTE TABLETS
By THOMAS NASSIFFavenue contributing writer
Technology  seems to advance 
quicker than anything these days, and 
with rapid advancement comes fads of hip new devices — one being the tablet personal computer. 
With Apple’s introduction of the 
iPad in 2010, the technology market boomed with competitors trying to match Apple’s latest venture.
Following Apple’s lead, tablets such 
as the Samsung Galaxy Tab and the Dell Streak 7 have emerged, and each device comes with its own unique quirks.
With the budding tablet market and 
Apple’s constant drive to stay ahead, the only thing for certain is these de -
vices aren’t going anywhere any time soon.
And as tablets have become more 
popular for personal and business use, they have also gained popularity in the education system as learning aids.
The iPad has been the most com-
mon tablet instituted at schools so far. Among those, universities such as Oklahoma State, Seton Hall Univer -
sity and Illinois Institute of Technology have used the iPad in the past year to kick-start their already renowned tech-nology programs.Oklahoma State began its iPad pilot 
program in fall 2010, with two teach-ers distributing the gadgets to about 120 students. 
Bill Handy, an OSU associate pro -
fessor, spearheaded the pilot program along with business professor Tracy Suter. 
Suter said he and Handy measured 
the usefulness of the iPad in class-rooms.
“In my experience with the one-
semester pilot, having the iPad in the classroom was positive,” Suter said. “Students have a level playing field with hardware and software, and in a lecture setting, the convenience and 
mobility of the iPad makes it better 
than a laptop.”
Seton Hall and the Illinois In-
stitute of Technology have more permanent programs that provide  incoming freshmen with iPads.  
Even some high schools have started to distribute iPads to students.
Monte Vista Christian School, in 
Watsonville, Calif., was the first U.S. high school to implement the technol-ogy.
In April, the school distributed 
70 iPads almost immediately after Apple’s release, and that number has increased in the new school year.
Andover High School in Andover, 
Mass., had a plan to institute iPads 
into high-level math and science cours-
es this spring semester, but complica-tions with electronic book publishers stalled the movement.
Despite that, the Andover School 
District seems adamant on getting an iPad program started.
“I can’t give you a date or time, but 
it will happen,” said Susan Nicholson, the district’s assistant superintendent. 
But how could this movement to -
ward the latest cutting-edge technol-ogy affect UF students? 
At UF, professors have mixed opin-
ions on whether tablet computers would be useful in the classroom. 
Keith Stanfill, a UF engineering pro -
fessor, would be open to the idea.
Stanfill teaches a large introductory 
course and has his students use click -
ers to interact during lectures.
“I could definitely envision the use 
of an iPad or similar mobile device to have students engage more in the lesson,” he said. “In a big class where sometimes a professor wonders if the students are grasping the concepts, it would be useful to have that to gauge how well the students are understand -
ing the material.”
However, not every professor thinks 
adding iPads to the curriculum would be a good idea.
UF journalism professor Mindy Mc-
Adams said she doesn’t think iPads or other tablets would be helpful to jour -
nalism students.
“Things that the iPad does wouldn’t 
help as much for journalists,” McAd -
ams said. “They don’t really affect the gathering and presentation of news, so I wouldn’t see why they would be required.”
McAdams said she isn’t against 
the technology; she just doesn’t see 
how it could help journalism students.  
Stemming from that viewpoint, it 
seems that if iPads are ever instituted at UF, that institution will be only col-lege-based — not university-wide. “As of right now, there hasn’t been 
any movement toward integrating that technology,” UF spokesman Steve Or -
lando said. “The university has had a 
computer policy for several years, and 
some schools,  like the college of jour -
nalism, have begun to require Mac-Books. But, aside from that, nothing is in movement.”12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, february 24, 2011
Mourning the loss of a good University Avenue deal
By EUGENIO TORRENS
avenue contributing columnist
“Two slices of pepperoni to go, please.”
I can’t tell you how many times I’ve uttered that phrase at Leon-
ardo’s Pizza by the Slice, 1245 W. University Ave. A Gainesville 
staple since 1973, Leonardo’s began offering two-for-one slices an hour before closing time about two and a half years ago.
I’m not sure when I found out about it, but once I did, my life 
was improved immeasurably. I was eating two heavenly smell-
ing, cheese-dripping, pepperoni slices for $2.89, then for $3.15 (I 
could deal with the 26-cent raise).
I started going so often that certain employees knew my order. 
For a time, it was a gem of a deal only select people were privy 
to, but soon enough, word began to spread. 
There were times I would get to Leonardo’s, maybe five min-
utes past 9 p.m., when the line reached the door and curved to the left, around to the booths and along the window. I didn’t mind waiting.
Imagine my dismay when I returned  this spring and heard 
those stinging words: “We don’t do two-for-one anymore.”
The restaurant abolished arguably one of the best deals in 
town on Jan. 1.  
“We wanted to eliminate waste,” said Steve 
Solomon, co-owner of Leonardo’s. “We weren’t trying to create a two-for-one craze. People wait 
specifically for that time. You create a half-price 
people.”
I am not the only one whose every financial 
worry vanished with every scrumptious bite. 
   Oren Ehrlich, a UF senior who used to go 
once a week, said  he’ll definitely consider the change when decid-ing to go now. “It’s good pizza, don’t get me wrong.  But the special 
is what made it worth it.”
UF junior Jordan Krandall said he used to go to Leonardo’s with 
his roommates. A bargain hunter, Krandall said he hasn’t been back to the  pizzeria since the special became unavailable.
“I think it’s reasonably priced,” he said. “It’s just the principle of 
‘I used to get two for the price of one, and now I can’t.’” 
But Solomon said he isn’t worried about losing business. He 
said with the two-for-one deal, he was pushing even. 
As for the other neighboring pizza competitors — Amore, Italian 
Gator and Papa John’s on campus — Solomon said each place has 
its own clientele. He said traffic is somewhat dictated by UF events, 
such as athletic games and concerts.
Now, when Leonardo’s closes, any leftover pizza is taken to the 
St. Francis House in Gainesville, which is a homeless shelter and soup kitchen. 
“I’m very happy if anything’s left to give it to St. Francis,” Solo-
mon said. “We’re doing a greater good. We’re feeding someone 
who wouldn’t be eating otherwise.”
So, fellow Leonardo’s two-for-one aficionados, while it may be 
hard to swallow two full-priced slices — or more if you’re really hun-
gry — try to realize the pizza still tastes just as good.
Monkey action: “Serendib” hits the Hipp this weekend
By BRITTANY BRAVE
avenue writer
 
      Get away and explore foreign terrains without 
the burden of a suitcase or a passport — you won’t need those. You’re not going far.
This weekend, escape and head to down-
town Gainesville, where The Hippodrome State Theatre’s latest production, “Serendib,” opens at 8 p.m. Friday.
At first, it seems like you’ve landed on a clas-
sic proscenium stage.
There’s an exotic, almost whimsical outdoor 
milieu that rests comfortably in the middle of the main stage and provides the illusion of a 
larger, more rugged landscape that isn’t actu -
ally there. 
Stone platforms and boulders decorate the 
area, and plants sprout from the concrete floor 
and up toward the lights. From your seat in the house, it’s intimate. You’re situated eye-level with the people and monkeys, so it’s impossible 
to miss all the primitive action. 
“Serendib,” which includes monkey puppetry, 
will have its U.S. regional premiere in Gainesville 
after a 2007 showing in an off-Broadway run at the Ensemble Studio Theatre. In Gainesville, the seven-person cast will perform eight shows a week until March 20.
Set in a nearly Darwinian playground, the 
scenes’ dialogue is speckled with proverbial 
monkey “Ooh-ooh-ohhs” and “Ahh-ahh-ahhs,” 
which come from the puppets.
The monkey business draws parallels be -
tween humans and primates to raise questions about evolutionary progress, where a group of scientists split their time between knowledge and research and the bottom-line facts of pri-mal behavior.
Artistic director at the Hippodrome for 15 
years, Lauren Caldwell believes the play has a newfangled structure, with the puppets de -manding a more collaborative effort from the 
actors and crew. 
“It was a whole new palette of things to fig-
ure out and craft like never before,” she said. 
On March 4, the company will perform for 
the production’s playwright, David Zellnik, who 
during his visit will conduct a post-show inter -
view and writing workshop. Both are open to the public.
Transferring the story from page to stage 
was unusual for the cast. In addition to dance choreographers and mechanical directors, the actors needed to be trained on how to operate puppets — and more so, to work that kind of ani-mation into their bodies on stage.
Kim Mead had to split her time between two 
roles in the play. Not only did she had to prac-tice being an aggressive BBC reporter, but she also had to help with the puppet choreography 
as captain. 
“We had to figure out how to keep the actors comfortable but also tell the monkeys’ story,” she said. 
The Hippodrome was one of hundreds of the -
ater companies and schools chosen to receive 
a grant from The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. The organization works to fund scientific-related projects, and it donated money to the theater to make the show and Zellnik’s visit possible.
Andrew Jordan, a Santa Fe College English 
major, sat in on an exclusive screening of the 
play and enjoyed how conventional notions of 
people and animals were placed in a dramatic structure. 
Aside from the innovative puppets, props 
and pretend primates, Jordan felt the audience could draw a vision of the story from actions in their own lives, and he said the play provides important social commentary. 
“I’ve seen a lot of Hippodrome shows, and 
this was definitely the most intriguing,” he said.
To purchase tickets, visit www.thehipp.org.Tablet trend taps U.S. schools
Alligator File Photo
theater Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 24, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
***6 Bedroom House***
Walk to class. Pool. 2 living rooms. Game 
room. Ample Parking. Move in August 5th. 
Please contact John @ 561-866-8234 for 
additional info.
2-25-4-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2        2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1600
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-1-11-29-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    3-3-11-30-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-
11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-1-11-19-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF***48 Hour Special***352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, W/D included, furnished common area. 352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com3-1-11-14-2House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
Beautiful. 1bd. 1ba. loft 5 min on freeway 
from SFC Renovated with tile & carpet.Pool,
Clubhouse, Exercise Room, Quiet location.
$425mo $425sec. $45appl. fee.
472-6491.
3-1-11-10-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-4-11-12-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Downtown garage/studio apt, off-streetparking, privacy. Behind Hippodrome, on bus lines. $420/mo, 1st, last and sec.Call 352 373-6551, leave message.3-4-9-2Short term lease. Quiet, clean effi-
ciency. Archer Rd. View to woods.
Call 352 316-2966                     2-28-11-5-2
UF 7 blks, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL, HOT 
TUB, 2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park, respon -
sible students or professionals only.  Plasma TV incl. May-Aug $1775/mo; $2375/mo Aug on. 
Summer only option or yr lease. 352-222-0211   
3-1-11-5-2
Arlington Square. Right downtown! Bus: 1&5. 
5 min bike to campus/15min walk. 2BR/2BA 
townhouse: high ceilings, in courtyard w/ 
pool. May-July. Unfurn/util not included. 
$470/person. 352 318 1014. jsmyth@ufl.edu   
3-1-10-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-634-1893. Available immediately.    3-1-10-4Looking for a male roommate who is very nice 
& easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo util 
& dish network tv incl. If interested call Joe 
at 240-4536. No smokers, alcohol, drugs or 
overnight guests please.  2-25-7-4
Perfect for female student or young profes-
sional. Quiet, safe, split-plan home in Haile. 
Has furnished BR & BA, utils & kitchen use, 
W/D. $375. Please leave message after 
11am 352-377-1648   2-24-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 15
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!
All models between $200 - $400 off! All come with one year parts and labor warranties! Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-11-35-11
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $499901 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
2002 BMW Z3 3.0 roadster
green metallic/beige leather; 91,500 miles, 
good condition; $12,000; Loretta 352-665-5285   3-2-5-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      2-25-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
16, ALLIGATOR  � THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small company in G’ville, great work environment. About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   2-25-11-17-14
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITORNETWORK ASSTSALES CONSULTANTSCEO ASSISTANTFull time positions.Send resume to hr@gleim.comwww.gleim.com         3-14-11-10-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    2-28-11-10-14
Office Asst Paid Internship in Alachua. 
$12.00 hourly 10-15 hours weekly. Flexible schedule. Knowledge of Quickbooks a plus. Email resume to BiopressInfo@gmail.com.   3-1-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive  po-
sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14VOLUNTEER NEEDED - Website/social 
networking help for growing aerospace & 
WWII museum. Flexible schedule. Exp. w/
Joomla and WordPress required. Resume to 
susan@wingsofdreams.org    2-24-5-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-4-11-11-14
TYPIST FOR PROFESSIONAL OFFICE 
NEAR CAMPUS. As needed basis. Must 
be fast/accurate/dependable. Send email to 
combehserv@gmail.com    2-24-11-5-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems seeks 
sales consultants for Gainesville & Ocala.  
Must have reliable transportation. BG Check 
and Drug Test Required. Fax resume to 352-
376-9236 or e-mail info@cpss.net.   3-3-11-
10-14
Mystery shoppers needed to evaluate cus-
tomer service at local businesses. No fee to 
register - we pay you! Please register at our 
website: www.shopperscritique.com.   2-24-
4-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
PT Tennis Clay-Court & Gen Maintenance 
Haile Plantation C.C. 6:30-9:30am shift + 1 
wkend day, 10-15 hrs/wk. Must be reliable/
responsibe. Tennis exp + G'ville residence 
a+. Bob 335-4105                    2-28-11-5-14
Classic Fare Catering, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, has an im-mediate opening for a PT Catering Sales 
Coordinator. The position is M-F 12pm-5pm.
 
Candidates can apply online at www.gator-
dining.com or in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.    2-25-11-3-14
Experienced swim lesson instructor needed 
for local program. Part time hrs either in mornings or late afternoons. Please email resume with lesson experience and 3 refer-ences to jwilby@cox.net   3-16-11-10-14
HOMEWORK COACH NEEDEDfor a 10th grader & a 5th grader who both need help in math & science. Approx 5-6 hrs/wk.-flexible, $10/hr. Please email credentials to: glennhmcinnes@bellsouth.net   3-2-11-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordable
Grammar, conversation, vocabulary
Contact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     
3-16-1-15
FREE TUTORING! Prepare for Mid-terms at 
the Teaching Center and Reading & Writing 
Center in Broward Hall. TC offers live tutor-
ing – plus TV & podcasts – in various math, 
science & other classes; see
www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu for courses and 
times.  RWC offers help with any writing as-
signment; see www.at.ufl.edu/rwcenter for 
details.    2-25-5-20
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
Earn $15 for participating in a 90-minute 
research study. Must be 18-28 years old & 
speak Spanish & English fluently. Contact 
Sabra Pelham by e-mail (spelham@ufl.edu) 
for details about how to sign up.   2-24-5-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  Monday - Thursday, 2/28 
– 3/3 from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions 
on M & R, Math on T & W.  Call 392-2010 to 
register and learn the room location.    2-25-
5-20
Share your own life story. Participants over 40 years old are needed for research test-ing behavioral theories on real lives on all real behaviors- those that are normal, good, 
legal, and illegal. Please contact Zenta at 
ZENTAGS@UFL.EDU or (352-222-0883)
2-28-5-20
Sports
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL QUESTION UF TENNIS NEWS SEC BASKETBALL STANDINGSn THE SENIOR FORWARD SAT OUT SUNDAY’S 
GAME AT LSU DUE TO AN INJURY.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
With Chandler Parsons’ recovery from a left thigh bruise 
nearly complete, the Gators could see the return of their se-
nior leader tonight. 
But not as a member of the starting five.“Even if Chandler has a great practice and is totally 
healed and never has a problem with his leg again, I don’t anticipate him starting tomorrow,” Florida coach Billy Don-
ovan said. 
Donovan later added that Parsons would likely come off 
the bench for No. 13 UF (21-5, 10-2 Southeastern Conference) 
as it squares off against Georgia (18-8, 7-5 SEC) at 7 p.m. in 
the O’Connell Center. 
Parsons’ minutes depend on Donovan’s evaluation of the 
senior’s performance in limited action during Wednesday’s 
practice. 
Donovan said Parsons has made significant progress 
since Friday, when he was shut down after his individual training due to swelling in the injured leg. That was not the 
case in Tuesday’s workout, after which Parsons felt as well 
as he had since the injury, according to Donovan. 
Still, Parsons’ status is dependent on how he performs in 
practice leading up to the contest. 
“I just want to see how he responds in a competitive situ-
ation,” Donovan said. “We’re going to throw him in there a little bit just to see what he looks like and how he feels. For 
his confidence, that will probably be a good thing.”
Parsons struggled to move and shoot in individual work-
outs Sunday and didn’t practice Tuesday but would still be 
likely to see minutes if Wednesday’s practice is deemed a success. 
“If things go well for Chandler, we’re going to throw him 
in there and see what happens ” Donovan said. “It could be something very positive for us.” 
Parsons hasn’t played since Feb. 12, when he sustained 
the bruise in a collision with UF senior forward Alex Tyus 
during a rebound attempt against Tennessee.Although the senior still played 37 minutes against the 
Volunteers, his performance was clearly affected by the pain. 
He finished with only three points and three rebounds. Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Chandler Parsons sat out UF’s 68-61 win at LSU on Sunday, but the senior will likely play against Geor-
gia tonight at 7 in the O’Connell Center. Coach Billy Donovan said Parsons will probably come in off the bench.
Parsons will return, but not start, against Bulldogs
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
When glancing at No. 1 Florida’s hitting 
statistics, one name glaringly stands out.
Despite a torrid opening stretch, it isn’t 
Southeastern Conference Player of the Week 
Nolan Fontana. It’s not marquee names like 
Preston Tucker or Austin Maddox.
Daniel Pigott has started the season so hot 
his name looks like it’s written in bright red 
ink.
The junior left fielder has emerged as an 
unexpected offensive threat for the top-ranked Gators. After nearly identical freshman and sophomore seasons, Pigott’s full potential has surfaced early in the 2011 campaign.  
Possessing a distinct combination of speed 
and power, Pigott has solidified — at least thus far — a position thought to be in constant flux before the year. 
Entering the season, 
Pigott was expected to pla-
toon the outfield with Ty-
ler Thompson and Bryson Smith. But after Thompson suffered a hamstring injury late in spring practice, Pigott 
stepped in and assumed the role of an every-day outfielder. 
Despite not starting the season opener, the 
right-handed-hitting junior leads the team in Pigott off to strong start For the first time in years, the Gators 
men’s basketball team can switch to cruise control.
Cruise control is dangerous, though. 
Yeah, it’s easy . Yeah, it’s comfortable. 
Yeah, your body is aching. But you are 
going to let your mind drift a couple times during a road trip, and your ankle better be prepared for a quick change. 
No. 13 Florida shouldn’t relax, either. 
Yeah, they’re sitting atop the SEC. Yeah, they’re a Tournament lock. Yeah, their 
bodies are banged up — here’s looking 
at you, V ernon Macklin’s 83-year-old knees and elbows. 
But the Gators shouldn’t be satisfied 
just getting to the Tournament. They should have more goals: a conference championship, a favorable seed, a long enough stint at the Big Dance to at least enjoy it.
If the Gators want to achieve any 
of these ambitions, they better finish strong. 
To be fair, it 
has been a long season, and try-ing to relax for 
a few weeks is 
understandable. For the first time in any of these players’ careers, Florida is not a bubble team. But 
their security shouldn’t be used as an excuse.
The bubble watch hung over this 
team like a dark cloud in years past. They better take advantage of clear skies while they can.
“We focused too much on [the bub-
ble watch] last year,” sophomore guard Kenny Boynton said. “Our focus was UF can’t take foot off pedal yet
1. Alabama
2. Florida3. Vanderbilt4. Georgia5. Kentucky6. Tennessee11-2 (19-8)
10-2 (21-5)
8-5 (20-7)
7-5 (18-8)
7-6 (19-8)
7-6 (17-11)nFlorida’s Olivia Janowicz was named the South -
eastern Conference Women’s Tennis Freshman of 
the Week, the league announced Wednesday. Jano -
wicz posted a combined 6-1 record last week during the ITA National Team Indoor Championships.Today’s question: How many of its final four regular-sea -
son games (Georgia, at Kentucky, Alabama, at Vander -
bilt) will the Florida men’s basketball team win?
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @JettStreamin
BaseballSEE HOOPS, PAGE 19
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 19
SEE TYLER, PAGE 1918, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
It’s a well-known fact that Vanderbilt’s 
Memorial Gym is a difficult place to play . Just 
ask the Florida women’s basketball team.
The Gators haven’t won in Nashville, 
Tenn., since 2004 and have only three wins there since 1986. No current player on UF’s roster has experienced a victory in the Music City.
Florida coach Amanda Butler never won 
there as a player, and she has yet to do so as a coach, either. 
But that can all change tonight at 9 when 
Florida (15-13, 5-9 Southeastern Conference) plays Vanderbilt (18-9, 9-5 SEC) in Memorial Gym.
Guard Jordan Jones said the team got to-
gether for dinner Monday night to discuss the importance of tonight’s matchup and the dif-ficulties the Commodores’ coliseum can pose.
“We have to grow up,” Jones said. “We’ve 
played in tough environments, and Vandy al-
ways has a great crowd.”
The Commodores average 4,600 fans per 
game, nearly triple the amount of a home 
crowd in the O’Connell Center.
During practice before a road trip to play 
Tennessee, the coaching staff piped in crowd noise through speakers to acclimate the play-
ers to the distraction.
But Jones said the makeup of Memorial, 
with its hanging baskets and raised floor, re-
quires some different preparation.
“It’s just going to be a weird environment,” 
Jones said Tuesday. “I think (the coaches) will 
change some things up in practice to get us ready for that.”
Butler likes to run set plays on offense and 
switch things up sporadically on defense, but 
because the benches are sunken and on the baseline at Memorial Gym, that will be all the 
more difficult.
“If the point guard wants to get a play in 
the first half, they would have to turn com-pletely around,” Jones said. 
So, Jones said, the players must be able to 
talk among themselves about what they see 
during the game. 
Butler has coached from the baseline in 
practice to try to ready her squad, but once 
the game begins, she said, it’s going to be up 
to the players to get it done. 
“You’ve really got to rely on your point guard play to direct your team,” Butler said. 
“We’re going to spend time in practice … try-
ing to let the team run themselves because 
they’re not going to be able to rely on the 
coach’s voice.”
Communication will be paramount to-
night, and Butler said she is confident in her 
team after Sunday’s win over Mississippi 
State.
Point guard Lanita Bartley led the team 
with 23 points and five assists, showing a de-
sire to put the team on her back.
The Gators need this win to bolster their 
postseason résumé and are facing the Com-modores at a great time to pull off the upset. 
After opening 12-0 at home, Vanderbilt has 
dropped its last two in Memorial Gym.  A win 
tonight, and a win at home Sunday against 
Georgia, could do wonders for the Gators. 
But Butler said she is focused only on the task at hand. 
“One thing at a time,” Butler said. “Go up 
to Nashville and do something special.”Florida preparing for unusual atmosphere at Vandy
n UF WILL PLAY FIVE GAMES IN CALIFORNIA THIS WEEK.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
For every Batman, there’s a Rob-
in. This year, Florida has a dynamic duo in Stephanie Brombacher and emerging freshman Hannah Rog-ers. 
They share some similarities. 
Both stand 5-foot-10 and are Florida natives, but each relies on a different pitching style. 
While the fiery Brombacher 
can overpower hitters by attacking the inside part of the plate, Rogers makes use of an effective changeup and utilizes her off-speed pitches well. The early success of Rogers has 
been encouraging, and she has 
proven she can provide some relief 
for a workhorse like Brombacher. 
As they head to Palm Springs, 
Calif., for the Cathedral City Classic, 
the Gators will need both pitchers to 
be on top of their games.
“Stephanie might throw six and 
Hannah throws the seventh, or Han-
nah might throw six and Stephanie throws the seventh,” UF coach Tim Walton said. “It’s just a totally dif-ferent combination and something that I really like, comparable to what [former UF pitcher] Stacey [Nelson] and Stephanie brought to us two years previous.”
The experienced Brombacher has 
started the season on a tear, post-ing a 6-0 record and receiving the NFCA Division I National Player 
of the Week award after throwing 
12 scoreless innings against North 
Carolina last weekend.
She also earned her second con-
secutive Southeastern 
Conference Pitcher of 
the Week honor. 
“We’ve given her 
a little bit more free-
dom to call things,” Walton said. “She’s 
done a good job balancing the things she can control. We’re starting to get to the point to where Stephanie knows what she wants to do before the numbers are flashed.” 
Just three starts into her ca-
reer, Rogers has been nearly as good as her senior counterpart.  
In four appearances, she has allowed only two runs in 21 innings and has 
a .139 opponents’ batting average 
compared to Brombacher’s .131. 
UF’s ace has been impressed 
with the freshman’s early contribu-
tions at such a difficult position.
“Hannah’s a great pitcher. She’s 
tough,” Brombacher said. “She’s still working on getting used to college, and it’s different for her because ev-ery hitter, one through nine, is good, so it’s a little bit of an adjustment.”
The Gators’ list of scheduled foes 
in California includes not only top-ranked defending Women’s College World Series champion UCLA, but also No. 11 Texas, San Diego State, Utah and Indiana. 
“The competition is going to be 
a step up from what we’ve seen,” Walton said. “Their schedules are a little bit better, so with that comes a 
lot of tighter games. It’ll be the big-
gest challenge of our season to this 
point.”
The trip isn’t all about business, 
as the team enjoyed its annual fam-
ily dinner at senior Aja Paculba’s 
house Wednesday night. 
Even beyond playing games and 
visiting family, the trip is a big re-
cruiting tool. 
“I still get nervous for these 
events, not because of the wins and losses, but I want to play well in front of some of these kids who’ve never seen us live before,” Walton said. “It’s good to set a good first impres-sion with not only the way we play , but the way we carry ourselves, the way our fans act, the way our team dresses and how we look.”
Brombacher, Rogers becoming dominant one-two punchMemorial Gym’s baseline bench, raised floor pose challenges
“If the point guard wants to get a 
play in the first half, they would 
have to turn completely around.”
Jordan Jones
Florida junior guard
Softballbatting average, slugging and on-
base percentage, and he is tied with Brian Johnson for first in doubles. 
Routinely batting eighth or ninth, 
Pigott has fewer at-bats than more 
than half the regular lineup, yet he is 
second on the team in RBIs (five), hits (eight) and runs scored (three). 
In Tuesday’s walloping of Florida 
Atlantic, Pigott paved the way, go-ing 4 for 5 with two doubles and two RBIs. 
“I’m definitely seeing the ball re-
ally well right now,” he said. “Hope-
fully I can keep it up.”
In Pigott’s first two seasons at 
Florida, he started 73 games but only 
showed flashes of his potential. 
While acknowledging Pigott’s 
development has taken time, coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan said he anticipated 
Pigott would be successful at some point in his career.
“He’s not doing anything differ -
ent than what I’ve expected, and I’ve said that since day one,” O’Sullivan said. “I thought he was going to be an offensive force in this league, and I still believe that.”
Pigott said he worked hard with 
the coaching staff this offseason, shortening his swing and adjusting his hands, allowing him to use his power and drive the ball to right-center field.   
The left fielder also said he tends 
to overthink the game, but his new approach of slowing it down has re-ally made it much simpler. 
According to O’Sullivan, Pigott 
has earned the right to stay in the lineup, even though tonight’s op-ponent, Boston College, is predomi-nately right-handed. 
Florida’s skipper mentioned mov-
ing Pigott up in the lineup, possibly to the two-hole, when the Gators (4-0) take on the Eagles (2-1) today at 5 p.m. in McKethan Stadium.
Etc.: UF will use the same weekend 
rotation from the South Florida se-
ries. Brian Johnson (1-0) is scheduled to start tonight’s opener, followed 
by Hudson Randall (1-0) on Friday 
and Karsten Whitson (1-0) on Sun-day . … BC is playing the Boston Red Sox on Saturday in its annual exhi-bition in Fort Myers. … O’Sullivan spoke about the impact of the new bats on Wednesday , saying Maddox would’ve had three or four home runs with the old bats, but as a whole, 
the new sticks have helped his team 
because they are not over swinging and are more under control. … In the first four games, Florida has out-scored its opponents 20-to-1 in the first five innings.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Saj Guevara / Alligator
Florida junior outfielder Daniel Pigott has started the season on a hot streak at the plate, stepping up as 
an unexpected offensive threat for the No. 1 Gators. Pigott went 4 for 5 with two RBIs on Tuesday.
Junior outfielder earning spot in outfield, may move up batting order
BASE , from page 17n SOPHOMORE KITTY CULLEN 
SCORED FIVE GOALS TO LEAD UF.
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
For more than four minutes in the second 
half Wednesday, No. 17 Florida was daring 
someone to come out and guard them.
Unfortunately for the Gators’ offense, the 
Retrievers weren’t biting.
After seeing UF go on a 6-0 run to start the 
first half and score two goals within 1:30 to begin the final period, Maryland Baltimore County had enough of playing the Gators’ fast-paced game and packed their 11 defend-ers within the 12-meter arc.
“UMBC came out and played very smart 
in the second half … they stymied us for a lit-tle while, so we just needed to get our compo-sure back,” UF coach Amanda O’Leary said.
Sophomore Kitty Cullen finally broke the 
stalemate when she was fouled making a run at the goal in the 16th minute. With the ensu-ing free-position shot, she whipped the ball past the tallest player on the field, 5-foot-10 UMBC goalie Kendall Mason, for one of her five scores.
The Gators (3-1) went on another 6-0 run 
over the next 6:14, led by Cullen’s two scores in 14 seconds, en route to a 16-6 victory Wednesday night at Dizney Stadium.
“We have a lot of offensive firepower 
for sure, and again it’s just a matter of get-ting them their opportunities,” O’Leary said. “They’ve been lucky enough and good enough to actually make the goals count 
when needed.”
After 21 minutes without a goal to end the first half, the Gators came back with the 
necessary adjustments. Sophomore Ashley Bruns said UMBC (1-1) recognized UF’s ten-
dency to dump the ball to a cutting player about 12 feet from the goal. 
“They started to send 
the double [team] earlier, so we just had to see the back-
side for the open player so 
we could finish the play,” 
she said. “We just had to keep going and going and 
getting the shots off.”
Bruns scored four times and dished out 
the game’s only assist to sophomore Janine Hillier. Bruns said the Gators got out of their scoreless funk thanks mostly to Hillier’s work 
on faceoffs.
“There is no shot clock like basketball, so whoever has the possession of the ball mostly 
throughout the game, that’s basically who’s going to come out with the win,” Hillier said.
The Gators snagged a season-high 19 draw 
controls off Hillier’s faceoffs, an advantage of 14 possessions. The sophomore grabbed the ball five times on the faceoff to give Florida the quick possession.
“It’s huge. I don’t know really what to 
equate it to in other sports, but when you can possess the ball they can’t score,” O’Leary said. “So, it puts you at a distinct advantage to possess the ball right off the bat.”
After four games in 12 days, the Gators get 
a 10-day rest before their next contest March 5 at home against Lehigh (1-0). 
“There is no such thing as a break if you’re 
going to win games,” Hillier said. “So, we’re 
just going to practice hard and rest our bodies 
as best as we can.”
Gators use pair of 6-0 runs to down Retrievers
just making the Tournament instead of our goal being to make it deep into the Tournament.”
Even if the Gators are focused, they could 
easily finish the season 0-4. Sure, Florida beat three of these opponents in past matchups. But 
two of those games (Vanderbilt and Kentucky) 
were decided by a combined six points.
The other win came in double overtime 
against Georgia (thanks, Erving!). And Florida’s other opponent? Alabama, which has yet to play UF this season but is now first in the SEC.
In ESPN’s latest bracket projections, released 
Monday, the Gators were a No. 3 seed. They will at least hold that position — and probably jump 
to a No. 2 seed — if they can finish in first in the 
SEC and win the conference tournament.  
Senior forward Alex Tyus said Wednesday — 
and plenty of other times this season, for what it’s worth — that the difference between this team and those of the previous three years is that they’ve experienced everything. 
But none of these players have experienced 
being penciled in to brackets this early. Tyus sug-
gested the team will take advantage of this dif-
ference by being able to focus in practice instead of worrying about the latest projections. 
That is obviously the best way to respond to 
success: keep working hard. Actually taking that advice seriously, though, is much more difficult.
Every player should heed Tyus’ suggestion, 
because none of these four games look easy. And while winning isn’t as urgent as it has been in the 
past, it’s just as important if Florida wants to end 
the season on a positive note. 
Only one team will be truly happy after its 
last game of the season, and that team probably won’t be Florida. 
Sorry , just look at the odds. But it’s a lot easier 
to get over coming up short when you have an SEC Championship to fall back on.
To get there, they better keep their foot near 
the accelerator. TYLER , from page 17Prather likely to make second 
career start tonight vs. UGA
In Parsons’ absence, the Gators 
have turned to freshmen Casey 
Prather and Scottie Wilbekin, who split time at the small forward posi-
tion Sunday. 
While Parsons’ return will 
lighten their burden, Donovan was 
adamant that Prather and Wilbekin 
need to continue preparing as if 
Parsons were out. 
“We can’t have a situation where 
our guys try to back away and try to settle into a role,” Donovan said. 
“We can’t have that. We’ve got to 
make sure we’re all ready to play, 
because there’s a lot of unknowns.”
Although Wilbekin played 30 
minutes to Prather’s 15 on Sunday, Donovan tabbed Prather as the probable starter tonight. 
Prather can serve as an effec-
tive option in the press, allowing 
the Gators to speed up the tempo. 
He and sophomore Kenny Boynton 
admitted rebounding could become an issue with the 6-foot-10 Parsons 
limited. 
Prather also 
said he is slight-
ly quicker than 
Parsons, and 
this will help 
him match up 
with Georgia’s 
Travis Leslie. 
“We do some of the same things 
as far as athleticism, defense and 
things like that in the open court,” 
Prather said.HOOPS , from page 17
Bask etballBruns
20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011
Excess, debauchery and hypocrisy: A long weekend in Myrtle Beach
My divorce lawyer’s on the 
phone.
“It’s last minute, but 
someone dropped out. I know 
you’re a golfer. I figured you might be interested.”
I almost agree. Just a few more 
questions: “Anyone else I know be-sides you?” 
“No. The 15 guys are doctors, 
lawyers and psychiatrists. They look forward to this trip every year. Some of them get pretty wild.”
“How many days?”“Just four days — a long week-
end.  Come on, we need a guy for 
that fourth foursome.”   
I’m single 11 months. I’m rent-
ing an apartment in the same Bronx 
building my family moved to when we came from Ireland 40 years ago. I am literally back to square one. 
My lawyer’s done me a few fa-
vors, and I might need a few more. I acquiesce, “Yeah, what the hell. I can 
use a few laughs.” 
He warns me again. These guys 
blow off steam. Don’t be prudish. 
* * * 
We arrive in Myrtle Beach about 
9 a.m. We tee off at noon. Golf goes well. The three guys I play with seem stiff, but amiable. At the hotel, I room with Eugene, a cardiologist. 
Bookmaking almost a year, I’m 
making money , but my expenses have risen to meet my income. Con-
sidering my afflictions and addic-
tions, my “expenses” are predict-able. 
Between screwdrivers on the 
plane, six beers on the golf course and three shots in the clubhouse, 
I’ve got a good buzz on. For this trip, 
I brought a full cache of contraband. 
I break out my stash and roll a joint. As the doctor neatly stores his clothes, I light up and begin flipping through the phone book.  
Since Vietnam, I’ve had no 
qualms about using escort services. 
During the war, whores were $4 
apiece. At 19, I got all I could while I could. 
Blatant, unimaginative ads de-
voted to call girls plaster page after page of the phone book. Holy shit, is this Bangkok or the Bible Belt? 
Astounded, I erupt, “Eugene, 
can you believe this shit? Look at all 
these whores.” 
Doctor Eugene adopts a “Who 
farted?” expression, saying, “You 
don’t use those services, do you?” 
Making a small attempt at recon-
ciliation, I lie.
“Occasionally.”I ring up the least offensive ad.“Hello, Temptation. What are 
your hourly rates?” 
I cover the phone and ask the doc-
tor if he wants to spring for $100. 
“I don’t pay for sex. I’m going to 
dinner. Do what you like.” 
Ignoring his contempt, I negoti-
ate: “How long will it take her to get here? My name’s Fred, room 202. That’s right, Holiday Inn.”  
* * *  The knock signals the doctor’s 
exit. Despite his alleged disgust, I suspect curiosity caused him to stall. When Eugene opens the door, I’m on the bed in boxers. 
A syrupy voice from the hallway 
says, “You Fred?”
“No,” he says, condescendingly , 
letting her enter. “Fred’s over there on the bed.”
She enters, stops and screams, 
“Billy O’Connor, I can’t believe it!”
I yell out, “Shane, what the hell are you do-ing here?” 
She laughs 
and says, “Selling my 
ass. What are 
you doing here?”
“I guess 
I’m buying it. How long has it been?” 
“Almost 10 years,” she says. 
“You got any drugs?” 
“Quaaludes, grass, a little coke, 
and I got beer and vodka on ice.”
She says, “Cool. I’ll call my boss, 
tell him I couldn’t find the customer and take the rest of the night off.” 
Eugene darts to the dresser, 
shuffles clothes into his suitcase and stammers, “I’m going downstairs to get another room. I’ve had enough 
of this.” 
Good. Guy was a stiff anyway.
Shane’s a real sport. She’ll never 
make the cover of V ogue, but she has a fine body and a face that won’t frighten children.
She eats a down, rolls a joint and 
makes a drink. We reminisce about old times in New Orleans. We catch 
up throughout the night, interrupt-
ing our chat only to exchange cur -
rency and commerce. 
Later, Shane asks me if I’d do her 
a favor. She already did me two, so I say , “Sure.”  
But since it’s “Shane the insane,” 
I’m a bit apprehensive. 
“Would you put on my under -
wear and nylons? It turns me on.” 
I’m whacked, but reluctant. Then, I figure, who’s going to 
know? The downs have kicked in, I’m drunk as a bridegroom and I’ve known this chick 15 years. And she’s a pro. I don’t want her to think I’m a Puritan or can’t keep pace. 
Five minutes later, I’m lying on 
the bed dressed like a Victoria’s Se-
cret model.
Garnished in panties, garter belt, 
nylons and a black bra, I reach for 
my vodka — a dead soldier.
“I need another drink,” I say.I walk to the ice bucket. Empty . It’s past midnight, and the ice 
machine is only two doors down. Shouldn’t take more than a minute. 
I hit the hallway like an Olympic 
gold-medal winner.  
No sooner out the door, the room 
next door opens. Dumbfounded, I stare at one of my golf partners.
His face looks like a cobra just 
crawled up his trousers. Despite the lingerie, it’s obvious by my hairy chest and spindly limbs that Ange-
lina Jolie I‘m not.  
Other than the thin veneer of 
Shane’s unmentionables, I’m wear -
ing nothing but an effulgent smile.  I 
cradle the ice bucket like an infant, shrug and say indifferently , “Just say oops and close the door.” 
“Oops?” “That’s right, oops. Now, close 
the door.”  
* * * Next morning, my head is as big 
as a Buick. I shower, do a short line of coke and head for breakfast, piec-ing together last night’s events. 
I dread the reaction from the 
“wild professionals” but decide to “balls it out.” I can’t remember who 
spotted me in the hallway , but I’m 
sure my name came up over coffee.
A gaggle of golfers prattle pas-
sionately at the table. Then, all voices cease. All eyes fasten on me.I brazen out their garrulous si-
lence. “Nice day for golf, gentlemen. Shall we drink coffee or just snort the beans?” 
* * * 
Golf mercifully over, I can’t wait 
to hit the sack. I don’t bounce back 
like I used to. I’m in bed by 3 p.m.
About 10 p.m., I awake from a 
miserable, restless sleep.
My fingers clutch my throat as I 
gasp for water. My mouth feels like I gargled with sand. I vault for the cooler, grasp a beer, pop the top and 
drain it. The suds have barely settled 
when I hear a commotion outside my door. I throw on shorts and take a look.
There are five hookers in the 
hallway . Three of the golf outing’s “professionals” are inspecting the women like they’re bruised fruit. 
All the golfers are drunk, and the 
heretofore-contemptuous cardiolo-gist has turned abusive. 
He inspects each girl: “You, too 
short. You, no tits. You, take a civil service test.” 
This time it’s me who says, 
“Oops.” I close my door.
Weeks later, retelling the story 
to the few people I can, I’m crack-
ing up. I turn to my bookmaking 
partner, Billy , and say , “Can you imagine the coincidence? I’ve never even been to Myrtle Beach. What’s the odds of running into a hooker I know?”
He doesn’t stutter. “With you, I 
make it even money.”
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam veteran, 
former Bronx firefighter and pub and restaurant owner. He is a journalism major at UF and a standup comic. The irreverent and acerbic O’Connor per-forms free standup around Gainesville.
Bill O’Connor
Confessions of a 
New York Bookie
sports@alligator.org