We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 38 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.org LONDON — Gross or tasty? A London 
company is offering an unusual dessert — 
ice cream made with human breast milk.
Trendy London ice cream parlor The 
Icecreamists said its “Baby Gaga” ice cream sold out as soon as it launched Fri-day.
The company paid women who re-
sponded to an online ad to donate their breast milk. The milk — which the com-pany said was screened in line with blood donor requirements — is then pasteurized and churned together with vanilla pods and lemon zest. The dish comes in a mar -
tini glass and sells for $22.50 each.
Some may be repulsed by the idea but 
Matt O’Connor, who owns the company, told the BBC that the product is “organic, free-range and totally natural.”
“It’s good enough for our kids, good 
enough for our ice cream,” he said.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSUK company sells ice cream made with human breast milk n  Kentucky guard 
Darius Miller (right) 
scored a game-high 
24 points and led the 
Wildcats to a 76-68 
win over Florida on 
Saturday afternoon, 
keeping the Gators 
from claiming the SEC 
East championship.
See Story, Page 13.
n NINE DRIVERS COMPETED IN 
THE RTS BUS ROADEO.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
He takes corners like he’s in a go-
kart, stops like he’s in a Miata and edges 
curbs like he’s in a street-sweeper.
He’s the Mario Andretti of public 
transit. And if you take routes 2 or 10 on 
your way to class, you’ve been his pas-senger.
But on Saturday, Gary Sauls, 46, was 
one of nine vying for the title as Gaines-ville’s best bus driver at the 13th Annual RTS Bus Roadeo.
As heat waves rippled off the tarmac 
on the north side of Gainesville Region-al Airport, drivers weaved through a 
gauntlet of 11 tight turns, quick  stops 
and serpentine swerves.
“It lets them showcase their skills 
and own their skills in a controlled envi-ronment,” said Regional Transit System spokesman Chip Skinner.
A crowd of about 30 friends and fam-
ily members munched on hamburgers 
and hot dogs seated on steel bleachers 
as they rooted for their drivers. “Final Countdown” by Europe blared over the 
Sunny
84/72
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13RTS bus drivers race for 
title of Gainesville’s bestBy HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Cuts to the university’s fund-
ing may start cutting into your 
wallets.
UF President Bernie Machen 
has proposed a 30 percent in-
crease in tuition to counteract the 
proposed budget cuts from Gov. Rick Scott.The possible increase would 
raise in-state tuition from $5,000 to $6,500 a year.
In a written statement, Machen 
said UF has had almost $150 mil-lion in state budget cuts during 
the last few years. The proposed 
cut is more than $3.3 billion for the education in the state, accord-
ing to Scott’s budget.
“Now we face the distinct pos-sibility that more budget cuts are 
on the way,” he 
said. 
UF’s average 
in-state tuition is a little more 
than $5,000, compared with the national av-
erage of $7,605, 
according to collegeboard.com. For out-of-state students, the 
national average is $11,990, com-
pared with UF’s average of more than $27,000.
Machen’s proposal is a one-
time 30 percent increase that will 
help UF keep core programs and 
benefits for employees but will still have tuition lower than the 
national average.
“We have to think about ex-traordinary measures for extraor -
dinary times to get us through 
the next year or two,” he said. 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
said though the state budget is not set in stone, Machen, along 
with others, has heard of a strong 
possibility for cuts in UF fund-ing including pension and an Machen proposes 30 percent raise in tuition
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
The idea of students sporting holsters 
does not appeal to Ben Meyers.
Nor does it appeal to any Student 
Body president or campus police chief in 
Florida, said Meyers, the Student Body president-elect.
“It would create a culture of fear on 
campus,” he said, explaining his reasons for opposing the bill — despite being a staunch supporter of gun rights.   
That opposition isn’t stopping the Flor -
ida Legislature from exploring the option of removing restrictions that currently prevent students from arming themselves before they enter a classroom.
The bill not only would allow students 
with concealed carry permits to have their guns on campus, but also would al-
low anyone with such a permit to carry 
his or her weapon openly 
throughout the state. Cur -
rently, weapons are not al-lowed on Florida’s college 
campuses, and people must conceal the weapons they carry.
It also would prevent universities 
from making their own rules regulating 
firearms on campus, Meyers said.Gun debate continues
SEE RTS, p AgE 8SEE TUITION, p AgE 8
SEE gUNS, p AgE 8Machen
Hip Hop Triptych
UF wraps up Black History 
Month by featuring three hip-
hop artists on the rise at the 
O’Connell Center on Friday night. 
B.o.B, center, performed with 
fellow artists J. Cole, left, and 
Wale, right. Each entertainer 
brought his own energy and 
persona to the stage through 
freestyles, instrumentals and 
plenty of swagger.
ADMINISTRATION
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
OnCampu sNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 38 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Islam Awareness Month Closing 
CeremonyToday, 7 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomIslam on Campus will be holding a special Closing Ceremony which will feature Brother Ammar Al-Shukry. He will perform spoken-word poetry as well as give a mo-tivational speech relating to college student life. This event is free and open to the public, and there will be free food. 
Toastmasters Club meeting
Tuesday, 5:45 p.m.Entomology Building Room 1027 All are welcome. Toastmasters 
provides a fun and positive 
atmosphere for members 
to learn and practice pub-lic speaking and leadership skills. For more information, 
go to www.toastmasters.org 
or call Mary at 352-870-2267. 
Brown Bag Lunch Series
Wednesday, 11 a.m.
Peabody Hall Room 411
UF Professor Tace Hedrick ex-
plores gender implications in the “Twilight” book series in this edition of the Brown Bag 
Lunch Series. 
Refreshments will be provid-
ed.
Through Their Eyes: The 
Rhythms of West AfricaWednesday, 11:45 a.m. UF International CenterThis presentation will feature Mohamed DaCosta, a profes-sor with the School of Theatre and Dance and the Center for African Studies. Come out to learn more about the music of West Africa from one of the few practice-based cultural authorities on the traditional performing arts of Africa currently living in the U.S. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Ga. firefighters rescue tod -
dler from bank vault
CONYERS, Ga. — A toddler 
spent two hours trapped in a bank vault in suburban Atlanta.
Conyers firefighters rescued 
the 14-month-old from the vault Friday night after the child went missing while visiting a grand-parent who worked at the Wells Fargo bank in Conyers. The child was found after being spotted on security cameras inside the vault, which has a timed lock.propose in a way they’d never 
forget.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Ga. principal’s ‘no gold 
teeth’ rule prompts video
SAVANNAH, Ga. — The prin-
cipal of Savannah High School 
was always telling his students 
to tuck in their shirts and take 
out their gold teeth. So a group of students decided to write a hip-hop song about the badgering.
When they presented it to 
principal Toney Jordan, he asked a technology teacher to help the students produce a video.
Now, the song about remov-
able gold teeth, known as grills in the hip-hop world, is a school -
wide project. Everyone from the band, the cheerleaders and teach-
ers are getting involved.
Senior Raynell Murrel wrote 
the song with other students 
during their winter break. Mur -
rel calls it “I Can’t Hear You With 
That Gold in Your Mouth.”
The students plan to enter 
the project in high school media 
contests and host a video release 
party.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Bicycling Seattle mayor has 
bike stolen
SEATTLE — Seattle’s bi-
cycling mayor has had some 
explaining to do — to his wife 
about why her bike got swiped 
after he borrowed it to ride to work.
Seattlepi.com says Mayor 
Mike McGinn sent a message on Twitter late Wednesday about Peggy Lynch’s wheels.
He says in a tweet: “I know 
I’ve been encouraging people 
to ride bikes more, but I didn’t 
mean u could ‘borrow’ my wife’s bike w/o asking.”
McGinn, a former Sierra 
Club leader, frequently com-mutes by bike and often rides to events and meetings. He’s a strong advocate of making Se-attle more friendly to cycles and 
pedestrians.
McGinn’s spokesman says 
the mayor borrowed his wife’s bike because he recently donat-
ed his own to a charity. It was taken from a city garage.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSRescue workers arrived 
and pumped fresh air into the 
vault while a locksmith worked on prying loose the door. Au-thorities said the baby could be heard crying during the rescue.
Authorities did not release 
the child’s name.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
Homeless Michigan man seeks donor of diamond ring
PONTIAC, Mich. — A 
homeless man in southeast 
Michigan says a woman acci-
dentally gave him a gold ring 
laced with diamonds when she handed him a handful of change.
Michael Secaur tells The 
Oakland Press that he was panhandling at an intersection in Pontiac on Monday when a woman pulled up in a vehicle 
and handed him some money. 
He says the ring was among some coins and that he thinks she “did an oops.”
Secaur says he would rec-
ognize the woman if he saw her again.
He says he quickly dis-
missed a plan to pawn the 
ring. The owner of a shelter 
where Secaur often stays has locked it in a safety deposit box.
Secaur says he has lived on 
the streets of Pontiac for near -
ly two years.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Ohioan uses TV commer -
cial to propose to girl -
friend
MEDINA, Ohio — An Ohio 
man has used a TV commercial to make a pitch for marriage, 
delivering an on-air proposal 
to his girlfriend.
David Jones told Dee Hor -
ton to watch a midday news-
cast on Cleveland’s WJW-TV 
because he said he was going to appear in an ad playing a superhero.
Horton and co-workers 
tuned in Thursday at a hair sa-lon in suburban Medina (meh-DY’-nuh) but saw Jones in a 
message asking, “How about 
you and I show the world what true love is all about?” He pulled out a ring and pro-
posed.
The TV stations had camer -
as in the salon as Jones popped 
out in person. The couple em-braced as his bride-to-be said 
yes.
Jones works in video pro-
duction and says he wanted to THUNDER
STORMS
73/57SUNNY
84/62SUNNY
74/50PARTLY
CLOUDY
73/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/53FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
No publication next week
InsideUF will not publish next Monday, 
March 7, because of UF’s spring break. It 
will resume March 14 in the Alligator.
Gators urged to donate
The Orange, Blue and You faculty and 
staff campaign starts March 14. The goals 
of the OB&Y campaign include educating, connecting to and motivating all faculty and staff to support UF programs and 
initiatives.
Games and a month-long contest will 
be held, encouraging faculty and staff to 
donate. The campaign ends in April with a final push.  For information, visit  http://www.orangeblueandyou.uff.ufl.edu/ or write to floridafund@uff.ufl.edu.  
Machen meets with APA
President Bernie Machen will meet 
with members of the University of Florida 
Academic and Professional Assembly in an informal setting from 2 to 3 p.m. Wednes-day. All available seats are already reserved, but the meeting can be viewed live at  http://video.ufl.edu/service2/public/pub_showMain.php?id=28699.
If you have questions, contact Debra 
Amirin, Amirin@law.ufl.edu or 352-273-0651. For more information, visit  http://apassembly.ufl.edu/  Your 
campus 
news 
sourceView these stories and more at www.insideuf.ufl.edu 
InsideUF is produced by the  University 
Relations Office for faculty, staff and students. 
Editor - Ron Wayne
For a listing of events, or to submit an event to the calendar, click  
“UF Calendar” at www.insideuf.ufl.edu.
UF Calendar of EventsTV series teaches students, spotlights local towns
T wenty-three University of Florida stu-
dents are working together to tell the stories 
of the cities of Alachua and High Springs for a WUFT-TV series called “Our Town.”
The students are split into two-person 
teams, a writer and a photographer. Their task is to show the history and personality of small towns and their people. For the first hour-long episode, they are spotlight-
ing Alachua and High Springs, said student 
Steve Johnson, a coordinating producer for the project.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s 
2009 population estimates, Alachua has a population of about 9,424 people. High Springs has about 4,717 people. UF’s fall 2010 junior and freshman classes almost surpass the amount of residents in Alachua and in High Springs, respectively. 
Johnson, a junior journalism major, 
said it isn’t their goal to promote tourism in these towns but simply to show why the towns are unique.
For instance, the Priest Theatre, located 
in High Springs, was built in 1929 and is Florida’s oldest operating movie theater.  WUFT-TV, a Public Broadcasting 
Service affiliate, wants to produce four episodes a year, Johnson said. Each episode is to feature two towns and be broken into 10 mini-stories. The “Our Town” project, which started three months ago, will pre-miere March 7 on WUFT-TV.
“We are looking for those quaint towns 
where everybody knows your name,” John-son said.
He said one of the main focuses of the 
project is to not only put together something 
interesting for TV but to teach students skills  that will benefit their careers in journalism. 
The students are working as employees of the 
station and not as part of a class.
Ken Pemberton, producer of “Our 
Town,” said WUFT-TV decided to do this 
project to provide North Central Florida residents with content that is relevant and interesting to their lives. 
“We live near a lot of these small towns, 
but some of us never actually get to travel to them,” Pemberton said. “This is WUFT-TV’s way of bringing some of Florida’s uniqueness to our viewers.”
Student involvement is essential, he said. 
Students get to experience life outside of the classroom and interact with Floridians they might not meet on a daily basis.  At the same time, the project will also help them 
build valuable resume experience.
By Larry Truong
Alchemy:
From Dust to Form
March 1, 2011 - September 11, 2011 
Harn Museum of Art
This exhibition, in collaboration 
with the UF School of Art and Art History, will highlight the strength of contemporary American functional and sculptural ceramics. Free  admission.
Writer Estee Beck interviews artist Larry Behnke 
in High Springs for the ‘Our Town’ project.
Photo by Steve Johnson
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
No Southern Accent performs at the International Champi -
onship of College A Cappella South Quarterfinals on Friday.
n UF’S NO SOUTHERN ACCENT COMPETED 
WITH GROUPS FROM AROUND THE STATE FRIDAY.
By SKYLAR RAMSEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
After the pitch pipe buzzed, toes tapped to the 
sound of harmonious voices that carried new rendi-
tions of well-known melodies. 
Mallory Zuckerman, the performing director for 
No Southern Accent, paced across the front of the 
stage as she belted out “Heavy in Your Arms” by Florence and the Machine under the watchful eyes 
of three judges. She won the Outstanding Soloist 
award. 
No Southern Accent, a competitive UF a cappella 
group, came in third place out of eight groups from 
around the state Friday night at the International 
Championship of Collegiate A Cappella South Quar -
terfinals at the P .K. Yonge Performing Arts Center.
Despite two Florida State University groups, All-
Night Yahtzee and the AcaBelles, being the only ones 
to advance from the tournament, Zuckerman said 
she thought No Southern Accent performed well. 
“I felt really great walking off the stage,” she said. 
“We left everything on that stage. The groups from 
FSU were incredible, and we are really proud to share the stage with them, but we are also happy to 
represent The Gator Nation.” 
Alex Greene, a materials science and engineering 
freshman, discovered his talent for vocal percussion 
while performing sound checks with his rock band. 
The beatboxer showcased his skills during No 
Southern Accent’s last song, “Everything’s Just 
Wonderful” by Lily Allen. 
“As with anything, I like to win, but the scores are 
what they are,” he said.A capella group takes third place
March 3, 1974: Gainesville is hit hard by the na-
tional energy crisis, despite news that the problem is 
abating. 
Cars wait in huge lines for gas on Saturday, and 
by Sunday only Charter Oil, at 405 NW 13th St., is open for business.
Owner Ed Griffin said he didn’t know how he 
managed to store enough gas to stay open on a Sun-day. He  expects local stations to return to taking the weekends off by mid-March.
March 4, 1977: Gators basketball coach John Lotz 
is named United Press International’s  SEC Coach of the Year after helping turn a losing team into a win-ner mid-season.
After going 12-14 the season before, the Gators 
will go on to post a record of 17-9. Prior to this sea-son, the last time the Gators surpassed 15 wins came during the 1968-69 season when the team went 18-9 under coach Tommy Bartlett. 
“Lotz teaches us to play together, and he’s a good 
motivator,” said center Larry Brewster. “His philoso-phy is team play, not star play. He tries to keep it a team.”
March 1, 1990: Ben Hill Griffin Jr., the namesake 
for UF’s football stadium, dies in his own home from 
a blood disease at 79.
Though he never actually graduated from UF, he 
became the university’s largest financial benefactor, 
giving $10 million, including $1.7 million to expand 
the weight room for UF athletes, $2 million to reno-
vate Floyd Hall and another $2 million for the Health Science Center’s academic research building.
— KAT BEINBy MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
A new generation of science whizzes com-
peted Saturday in the New Physics Building, 
where  some of those students will have class-es in a year or two, for the chance to go to the National Science Bowl.
Seventeen high schools from around the 
state went head-to-head in the North Central 
Florida Regional Science Bowl, answering questions that could make your head hurt.
What is the crystalline shape of diamonds? 
A tetrahedron. In a totally inelastic collision, 
what happens to the objects? They stick to-gether.
NASA lost a $121 million Mars rover. Why? 
Because it was driven into a crater.
The basic stuff.Throughout the day, teams were weeded 
out one by one.
That night, it came down to the top two. 
Maclay School went up against Palm Harbor University High School.
Carrying the lead into the final round, Palm 
Harbor University High, made up of five Inter -
national Baccalaureate seniors with dreams of becoming doctors and working for a military defense think tank, were the team to beat. 
There was a relaxed atmosphere around 
them. During a break in an earlier round, they played hangman while their competitors stud-ied notebooks.
“A lot of the time, it’s really helpful to make terrible science jokes,” said 17-year-old Stefan Musser of Palm Harbor.
His team had already beat the Maclay 
School once before the finals. Since Palm Harbor was undefeated, Maclay had to win against them twice to win the competition.
Then, Maclay won once.
“Trust me, I’ve played Cinderella many times,” said Matthew Schnippert, coach for 
the Maclay team.
In the last round, the score went back and 
forth. With five minutes left, they were tied with 66 points each.
They sped through questions about the 
half-lives of radioactive particles and house-
hold items containing mercury.
Then, the final question: Why was Pluto 
downgraded from a planet to a dwarf planet? 
A participant for Maclay buzzed in and 
gave the answer: It hasn’t cleared its orbit.
The final score was 98 to 66 — a victory for 
Maclay.
“I did not feel like we were going to be able 
to come back,” said Jasper Brey, who was on 
the Maclay team. “It felt like a movie, like a sports movie.”
His team will now go on to compete in the 
national competition.
However, a time conflict means they’ll have 
to miss their senior prom and the AP chemis-try exam. They’ll be able to make up the exam, but not the dance.
But that’s OK with Brey.“[The prom] kind of pales in comparison to 
going to D.C.,” he said.4, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
Steven H. Keys / Alligator
The final two teams of Florida high school students compete in the last round of the 
North Central Florida Regional Science Bowl in UF’s New Physics Building on Saturday.
State high-schoolers compete in science bowl at UF
Jordan Streezel / Alligator Staff
UF Digital Worlds Institute’s founding director, James Oliverio, speaks 
at the TEDxUF event, held Saturday afternoon in Constans Theatre.
n LOCAL SPEAKERS FROM DIFFERENT 
BACKGROUNDS GAVE PRESENTATIONS AT THE SECOND-ANNUAL TEDxUF EVENT.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Though more than 1,000 people applied to at-
tend, about 400 were invited to take part in Satur -
day’s second-annual TEDxUF, an independently 
organized event featuring local speakers from miscellaneous backgrounds working on the theme 
“Challenging the Unknown.”
TED, which stands for Technology, Entertain-
ment and Design, is a global set of conferences 
dedicated to “ideas worth spreading.” 
Speakers are asked to give the speech of their 
lives in no more than 20 minutes. 
Videos of the talks can be viewed online at ted.
com.
Saturday’s event, the largest TEDx event in the 
southeastern United States, was sponsored by the UF Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation, CEI Ambassadors and the UF Honors Program and was held at UF’s Constans Theatre. Underwater cave explorer Jill Heinerth spoke 
about the importance of overcoming fear to do in-credible things, while UF undergraduate Dor Ru-bin  noted  success comes not from  pigeon-holing yourself to one thing but by making connections 
and innovations.
James Oliverio, the founding director of UF’s 
Digital Worlds Institute, said the time has come 
to update archaic classrooms to include modern technology.
Yvette Tran, a first-year graduate student 
studying electrical engineering at UF, said she enjoyed the opportunity to get out of her usual world of sci-
ence and math and apply what she’s 
learned to other venues.
“[It was] a way to broaden my knowledge, to 
become exposed to other ideas,” she said. 
Stefan Wolff, a first-year business major and 
one of the CEI ambassadors who helped orga-
nize the event, said such an exchange of ideas and cross-disciplinarian cooperation is the ultimate goal of TEDx events.
“It’s something that applies to everyone. That’s 
the beauty about TED,” he said. “Overall, it was a fantastic event. It couldn’t have gone better.”Speakers share ideas at conferenceBy SARAH POSER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A crowd of Planned Parenthood supporters paraded 
down Northwest 10th Ave. on Saturday, toting pink signs 
and celebrating when cars honked their horns.
The march was one of 50 demonstrations around the 
world, including one in Pakistan, to protest a federal bud-
get amendment that passed in the U.S. House of Repre-sentatives on Feb. 19. 
The amendment would eliminate the Title X program, enacted in 1970 to fund comprehensive family planning 
and related preventative health services to people in need. 
Congress appropriated more than 
$300 million in funding to the program 
in 2010.
Staci Fox, president and CEO of 
Planned Parenthood of North Florida, 
said the program funds annual exams, contraceptive services, and cancer and 
STD screenings for more than five million people each year. 
“Planned Parenthood is a community-based provider 
of life-saving primary and preventative health care,” she said. “For many Americans, our doctors and nurses are the only health care providers they see.” 
Mayor Craig Lowe was among about 150 supporters 
who attended the event.
“The loss of reproductive freedom is on the line more 
than it has ever been before,” he said at the rally. “We need to fight back. Now is the time. If we wait, it will be 
too late.”Protestors fight for funding of Planned Parenthood“Trust me, I’ve played Cinderella 
many times.” 
Matthew Schnippert
coach for the Maclay team
OnCampu sLowe
LOCAL 100 UF ORGANIZATIONS 
HELPED IN THE EFFORT.
By KARI PFLANZER
Alligator Contributing Writer
After 27 hours of labor from 
1,200 volunteers, 50 gallons of paint 
and 15 giant citrus trees, Duval El-
ementary School got a makeover 
this past weekend.
Volunteers from about 100 or -
ganizations at UF, including the UF women’s soccer and lacrosse teams, and students from Florida 
State University and Georgia Tech 
joined Project Makeover to give 
Duval Elementary a face lift. This 
fine arts academy is located in a 
lower-income area of Gainesville.
Daniel Burney, assistant princi-
pal of Duval Elementary, said a se-
lect group of students were asked 
to write their dreams for the school 
down and hand them in. The stu-dents had no idea some of the things they wrote actually would 
be implemented. 
“It was more of a covert opera-tion,” Burney said. “One student 
suggested a swimming pool, which would be difficult, so we chose the more ideal suggestions they gave.”
Burney said he is really anxious 
to see how students will react to the makeover. It really has been a 
hands-on process for them.
“Their imaginations have come 
to life,” he said.
Sara Stout, executive director of 
Project Makeover, said they took 
an artistic approach to the land-scape design by incorporating de-
signs by UF landscape architecture 
students. Hand-painted murals 
now adorn every hallway in the 
building, as well as the sidewalks outside.
Tracy Wynman, a landscape 
architecture major at UF who vol-unteered,  said they lined the court-
yard with 15 citrus trees that will 
provide shade, making the space enjoyable and conducive as a learn-
ing environment. For an aesthetic 
touch, they also planted flowers.
“This is just the beginning for 
the space. Much will evolve later 
on,” Wynman said.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
$8 OFF
No Coupon Needed! No expiration date to remember! 
Just bring in a valid student ID to any Gainesville Jiffy Lube.
5 area locations.  
For the Jiffy Lube nearest you please visit jiffylubesoutheast.comJiffy Lube 
Signature Service®
Oil Change
See store for more details. Not valid with any other offer. Restrictions may apply.  Jiffy Lube, the Jiffy Lube design mark and 
Jiffy Lube Signature Service® are registered trademarks of Jiffy Lube International, Inc. 
©2011 Jiffy Lube International, Inc. All rights reserved.
Aundre Larrow / Alligator
Tuan P. Nguyen, front, helps three other Project Makeover volunteers by painting pink flowers on a mural 
at Duval Elementary. Project Makeover focuses on “making over” low-income schools in Gainesville.
1,200 volunteers give local school a makeover
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer
It takes almost-superhuman strength to 
crush steel. 
Bill Kazmaier did it in about three sec-
onds.   
The three-time World’s Strongest Man left 
onlookers shocked when he crumpled a steel 
frying pan into a heap of scrap metal at the Strong Gator competition Saturday. 
Hosted by UF’s department of recreation-
al sports, the competition featured 10 female and 39 male students competing in five events that tested their strength, speed, endurance, explosion and conditioning. 
The 57-year-old Kazmaier, who won the 
World’s Strongest Man title in 1980, 1981 and 
1982, was the event’s special guest. He pro-
vided commentary on the action and spoke to spectators and competitors. 
As a former athlete, Kazmaier was im-
pressed by how determined the competitors were in such a grueling competition. 
“There’s such a tradition of winning here 
at the University of Florida,” he said. “The Gator pride runs really deep. Their strength seems to be indicative of not only the perfor -
mances, but it seems to be one they’re ready and willing to overcome.”  
Although only 10 females participated, 
they did the same events as the males and showed that strength is universal. 
“They were taught when 
they were young to play with a doll and wear a pink dress and put on makeup,” Kazmaier said. 
“But not every girl wants to think that way ... They can be tough. They can sweat. They can 
be physical.” 
Lucia Shellito, a trainer at Southwest Rec-reation Center, embodied that attitude all 
day.  
The junior exercise physiology major 
completed 12 reps of the log clean and press, 
which was six more than the second-place 
finisher, and posted the fastest time in the medley event. 
Shellito said her experience as a trainer 
gave her an edge. 
Getting the chance to compete in the same 
events as the men was a point of pride, she said. 
“Guys give us a little bit of respect when 
we do well,” she said. “I’m definitely repping it for the females.”Students compete to see who is strongest Gator
About 50 students participated
OnCampu sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Should the government give funding to Planned Parenthood?
99 TOTAL VOTES25% YES74% NOFriday’s question: Are you attending the B.o.B. concert?
Taking a Hike
UF should give students 
a break on tuition
Hold on to your wallets, Gators.
UF President Bernie Machen introduced the 
idea of a 30 percent increase in tuition to the Fac-
ulty Senate on Thursday. 
Although state law allows the university to raise its 
tuition rate by 15 percent annually, Machen would look 
for an exception at a time when stimulus money is run-
ning out and when Gov. Scott is having a field day with his 
budget-cutting shears.
Before you run to Tigert to protest, we thought we’d do 
some number crunching for you.
Right now, the average UF freshman pays about $167 
per credit hour, which equals $5,010 a year if the student takes 30 credits. The proposal would up this cost to about $217 per credit hour, putting the annual tuition cost at $6,510. 
However, many UF students don’t pay their tuition 
out of pocket because they receive Bright Futures scholar -
ships. The largest of the scholarships pays $125 per credit hour, meaning that, as of now, a student would pay about $1,260 to make up the difference per year. 
We have to assume the scholarships aren’t increasing 
anytime soon — in fact, students may receive even less money in the future. So, sticking with the $125 an hour, the new proposal would saddle students with about $2,760 
that Bright Futures wouldn’t pay for. 
You may notice we’ve been using 15 credit hours as 
a basis for calculation; this is because we’re anticipating 
block tuition becoming a reality. With both the 30 percent increase and block tuition, students taking 12 credits per 
semester would have an even bigger gap, having to pick 
up about $3,500 in tuition per year.
Machen is asking to at least double what students pay 
out of pocket for their education. We can see his reason-
ing: UF is still about $2,600 behind the national average for 
annual tuition and is coping with severe budget cuts. The president even said he’d scale back tuition increases after this one-time hike.
However, this plan pulls the rug out from under the feet 
of students who carefully budget their expenses. We’ve watched Bright Futures wither and our wallets shrink dur -
ing our years here, and we’re tired of our bank accounts being caught off guard.
We hope the powers that be consider grandfathering in 
current students. 
That is, we’d appreciate if they could lock in tuition 
rates from freshman year through graduation, allowing us to plan and be smarter with our money. The increase 
would apply only to incoming freshmen, who haven’t yet 
budgeted their money. 
Playing a guessing game with our finances only forces 
more students to take out more loans. 
Of course, we could always work longer hours and take 
fewer classes — which we would be penalized for under block tuition. 
The upcoming years will see a perfect storm of budget 
cuts, tuition increases, scholarship decreases and block tu-
ition implementation. 
Although they might fear the state of the job market, 
graduating seniors have something to be glad for.Planned Parenthood’s funds need trim  
That name inevitably evokes a knee-jerk reaction 
from all who hear it. For some, it is an organiza-tion providing needed health services to men and 
women, while to others it is a force perpetuating one of the greatest moral crises of our time. 
In the wake of calls by Republicans in the U.S. House 
of Representatives to cut all governmental funding to 
this group, those who adhere to the former view are de-
crying these lawmakers as furthering their social agen-da under the guise of economic policy. 
Furthermore, they are accusing House Republicans 
of cutting a much-needed source of cancer screenings, 
mammograms and HIV treatments for poor and mi-
nority communities, and they point to the fact that no federal funds  directly support abortions provided in Planned Parenthood clinics.
So, why would anyone want to defund this group? 
The answer is simple. 
It lies in the organization’s name: Planned Parent-
hood. 
It is obvious this group is not simply providing med-
ical services to those in need but in reality is advocating a specific social agenda. According to Planned Parent-hood’s last available year-end report, the organization spent more than $100 million alone furthering “sexual-
ity education” and other “public policy objectives.” 
This fact should be deeply disturbing to every Amer -
ican, not necessarily because of the views Planned Par -
enthood espouses but because  governmental money is 
being used to subsidize a private organization that ad-
vocates social policies with which so many Americans 
disagree. 
The fact that government funds are being used to subsidize the lobbying of govern-mental officials for specific poli-cies and more governmental funds 
is anathema to our very system of 
government. 
Every governmental dollar 
Planned Parenthood receives is a 
dollar of its privately raised money 
it does not have to spend. 
Every governmental dollar Planned Parenthood re-
ceives is a dollar that helps artificially prop up its ideas in a marketplace that appears ready to reject them. 
Are we comfortable with our federal government 
subsidizing the ideas of an organization that was founded by a woman who supported eugenics and fa-vored “family planning” as a way to weed out the unde-
sirables among us, especially considering that most of 
Planned Parenthood’s activities take place in poor and minority communities?
If Planned Parenthood’s sole objective is to help 
those in need, let it continue to offer cancer screenings, 
mammograms and HIV testing. If it does that while ad-
vocating only for more funds to pursue these purposes, few would reject funding the group. 
However, that would defeat the organization’s very 
purpose of advocating for “family planning” solutions.  
Economic and social policies are inextricably inter -
twined. 
That is exactly why if Planned Parenthood support-
ers want to continue advocating their social policy ob-
jectives, they must do it on their own dime.
Zack Smith is a first-year law student. His column ap-
pears on Mondays.
Zack Smith
letters@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
The Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitu-
tion forbids excessive bails or fines, as well as cruel and unusual punishment. Ratified in 1788, this Bill of Rights 
measure was intended to prevent government authorities from inflicting torture methods on U.S. prisoners.
Today, authorities have created a loophole in this amend-
ment, with “solitary confinement” in super-maximum secu-
rity prisons being a legally accepted method of torture.
There have been cases in our history where inmates have 
become dangerous within general prison populations, as seen 
on Oct. 22, 1983 in Marion, Ill., when two guards were killed on the same day in two separate incidents. This brought up the fundamental question of how to mitigate violence inside a place that contains arguably the most violent members of society.
Some wanted to give the death penalty. Some wanted to in-
crease security measures. Others wanted to move dangerous inmates to an 8-by 10-foot cell with no contact with the outside world. That October day ultimately would become the catalyst for constructing super-maximum security units in American prisons, where inmates would be held in solitary confinement.
On Carmela Hill-Burke’s first day working at the Oregon 
State Penitentiary in Salem, they took her to the Intensive Man-agement Unit building where mentally ill inmates are held.
“It looked like I had walked into a lab where they were 
keeping monkeys to test in some sort of experiment,” she said.
The building in Salem is a completely self-contained unit 
with its own laundry , kitchen and hospital facilities. It keeps men on a long-term basis, which by normal standards is a year or more in solitary confinement. Prisoners pace back and forth in their cells with the lights controlled by guards, and when it comes to exer -
cise, guards move them to an empty cell where they can walk around. According 
to Hill-Burke, many scream and shriek for their sanity.
“You walk in, and it looks like a bunch of caged animals,” 
she said. “No one can see daylight at all.”
Hill-Burke says the inmates in the IMU are supposed to be 
the most dangerous criminals in Oregon, having been convict-ed of child rape, murder and serial killings. But some of the inmates move from the prison’s general population to the IMU for breaking prison laws like “possession of contraband.” Con-traband can be considered anything from a homemade knife to a candy bar not bought from the prison store. One man was 
moved to the IMU for having a cell phone. The guards moved 
him to solitary confinement because they feared he was trying to escape. He hadn’t committed a violent infraction before.
Once inmates are moved into solitary confinement, the 
shortest time they can be released after is one year. Howev-er, one inmate in Salem has been in the IMU for more than a decade because any rule infraction resets a person back to the beginning of his or her term. People who have disciplin-ary problems once they are inside what prison guards call “the 
kennel” can stay there indefinitely. Hill-Burke learned about 
the inhumane conditions inmates experience from her father, who volunteered in prisons. Her interest in prison work in-creased as she delved into Howard Zehr’s “restorative justice” movement, with its focus on prisons moving from a retribution to rehabilitation model. She started out reading anger manage-ment packets to prisoners in the IMU.
“When you put someone in solitary confinement, you can’t 
say it is for discipline,” Hill-Burke said. “People realize they have to at least pretend they are trying to rehabilitate them. But at that point, the level of punishment becomes torture.”
After responding to essays written by about 200 prisoners in 
the IMU every week, Hill-Burke started seeing improvements. Instead of a few sentences, they were writing more than 10 pages and asking for more paper.
“They starved for social recognition and attention,” she 
said. “I just wrote them a few sentences, and they would just explode.”
Hill-Burke was asked to teach a class to the prisoners. Show-
ing up to individual cages, Hill-Burke taught a class to IMU 
inmates on meditation, mindfulness and creative writing.
“I just wanted to explore tools to deal with the violent social 
atmosphere they were living in,” she said. “I wanted to teach 
them to act and not just react to situations.”
She noticed improvements every day. One prisoner devel-
oped plans to start a non-profit for at-risk youth in his home-town upon release. Another vowed that he would attend a uni-versity. Hill-Burke believes solitary confinement is a legal form of torture in the U.S. that should be abolished. But she realizes 
the change isn’t going to come by pointing fingers.
“It’s so easy to change stuff as long as you realize it’s not 
set in stone,” she said. “Nothing has to be the way it is. It’s all 
made up by human beings. We made it in the first place, and we have the power to change it.”
Mark Costigan is a student at the University of Oregon
Solitary confinement legal torture, should be abolishedUWire
Mark Costigan
UWire
We are not all Americans, at least not 
according to some Republicans.
Legislation proposed last month 
by Republican Sens. Rand Paul of Kentucky and David Vitter of Louisiana aims to close 
what they call the birthright citizenship loop-
hole. The 14th Amendment established the birthright citizenship and states, “All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside.” This means children born in the United States, no matter the citizenship status of their parents, are considered American citi-
zens. But Paul and Vitter hope to change that.
In an article of Vitter’s published through 
CNN, he wrote, “I believe the policy of birth-right citizenship is incompatible with both 
the text and the legislative history of the 14th Amendment, which is why I recently intro-duced legislation so that a person born in the United States to illegal immigrants does not automatically gain citizenship unless at least one parent is a legal citizen, a lawful perma-nent resident (green card holder) or an active 
member of the Armed Forces.”
According to a study published by the Pew 
Hispanic Center, 8 percent of U.S. births in 
2008 were to unauthorized immigrants. The study also stated that in 2009, about four mil-lion U.S.-born children under the age of 18 re-siding in the U.S. had unauthorized immigrant parents. And now, these children’s futures are in jeopardy . If the legislation passes, children born in America to un-authorized parents no longer will  be consid-ered Americans.
They will be forced to go through the long 
process of obtaining green cards or becoming naturalized citizens. If not, they risk being de-ported to their parents’ native country . These children, who were born in America and for -
merly considered part of an American soci-ety , will be displaced. If they do not belong in America, where do they belong? Certainly not in a foreign country where they have no alle-giance and possibly never even have  visited. 
Alongside Vitter’s article on CNN was one by 
Rep. Michael Honda of California, a Democrat who opposes this legislation.Honda wrote, “Denying citizenship to 
persons born in the United States who do not meet this new Republican interpretation could produce tens of thousands of people with un-determinated nationality each year and lead to 
a bureaucratic nightmare.” He also wrote that, 
according to a study by UCLA professor Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, deportation plans of Amer -
ica’s undocumented immigrants would cost the U.S. $2.6 trillion during the next 10 years, while embracing comprehensive immigration reform would add $1.5 trillion.
Closing the birthright citizenship loophole 
obviously would not be the most cost-effective 
solution to America’s immigrant population.
Alicia Adcox is a student at the University of 
North Carolina at Ashville.
American-born children of immigrants deserve citizenshipUWire
Alicia Adcox
UWire8, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
Alex Orlando / Alligator
A driver eases too far to the right as he passes a straightaway in an obstacle course Saturday morning dur-
ing the RTS Bus Roadeo. Nine drivers competed to go to the Florida State Bus Roadeo in Daytona.
The winner will compete in the Florida State Bus Roadeo next month
loudspeakers as defending cham-
pion Eddie Bishop’s bus grunted toward the starting line.
He made one last seat adjust-
ment, glanced at his mirrors and 
chirped his horn twice.
Showtime.“Take it nice and easy, and 
breathe,” said Eugene Neilson, transit supervisor and on-board 
judge, from the first seat of the aisle between bites of his mus-
tard-slathered hamburger.
The air brakes sighed as Bish-
op heaved the bus to the first ob-
stacle, two rows of tennis balls through which he had to guide the back two wheels of the bus. 
Holding his breath, he cleared 
them all.
In the aisle, all that could be 
heard was the whir of the bus’s  
air conditioner and the tap of 
Bishop’s size 10.5 brown leather 
dress shoes over the pedals as he 
touched the gas and dabbed the brake.His upper lip curled over his 
soul patch as his hands criss-crossed over the wheel. 
At the last obstacle, a  straight-
away into a quick-stop, he pushed the bus up to 22 mph, then stomped on the brake in time to 
bring the bus’s front bumper 
within 2 inches of the final cone, 
which symbolized a pedestrian.
That wasn’t good enough to 
edge out Sauls, who crossed the 
finish line at 5:33 — exactly 40 
seconds under Bishop’s time.
After the race, Bishop took 
a third place trophy, and Sauls 
handed his first-place prize to his daughter.
Sauls now will compete in the 
Florida State Bus Roadeo in Day-tona next month for a chance to 
compete nationwide.
Asked if he was pleased with 
his standings, Sauls glanced at his 9- and 14-year-old daughters 
and smiled. The youngest clung 
to the trophy with both arms.
“Yup, I am,” he said. “I did it 
for my young’uns. As long as she 
gets a trophy, she’s happy.”RTS , from page 1
increase in the cost of health 
insurance for employees. 
“Any additional cuts will 
be devastating to UF,” she said. 
She said at some point 
UF would have reached a 30 percent increase anyway, but the proposed increase would get the university through the proposed budget cut. 
“The 30 percent would 
help get us over the hump,” 
she said.
Because of Senate Bill 762, signed by former Gov. Char -
lie Crist, all state universities 
are allowed to increase tu-ition as much as 15 percent annually until the institution reaches the national aver -
age. 
Last year, tuition went up 
8 percent a c r o s s 
the state, 
and UF was allowed an ex-
tra 7-percent increase, which reached the maximum of 15 percent. 
Sikes said it is a “worse-
case-scenario” plan.The tuition hike would help 
make up for budget cuts
TUITION , from page 1Eight other states are considering similar bills
Eight other states — Arizona, 
Michigan, Mississippi, Nebraska, 
Oklahoma, New Mexico, Tennes-see and Texas — are considering bills that would allow open carry 
on college campuses.
Blue Ridge Community College 
in Virginia and Colorado State Uni-
versity are two examples of schools that allow students to carry guns.
Unlike universities in Utah, 
which are required to allow stu-dents to carry firearms on campus, Blue Ridge and Colorado State 
both were given the option to do 
so by their respective state govern-ments.
Neither university has had an 
incident involving firearms since the institutions allowed them on campus in 2003, according to repre-sentatives from both universities.
Interest in Colorado State’s pol-
icy has risen since the Virginia Tech shootings in 2007, said Colorado State spokesman Brad Bohlander. At the time, he said, not many  peo-ple knew having guns on campus was an option. 
“It’s not something we go out 
and promote,” Bohlander said. “It’s just something where we’ve 
chosen to follow the state law.”
Though CSU allows students to 
carry a gun on campus, it doesn’t 
necessarily make it a safer place, Bohlander said. Arguments can be made for both sides of the issue.
“People are very divided,” he said. “One side will tell you that guns make campus safer, and the other will tell you less safe. From my perspective, there hasn’t been clear research that shows one way or the other.”
UF representatives declined to 
comment on the prospects of the impending legislation on the issue.
R. Bowen Loftin, president of 
Texas A&M University , issued a statement regarding the possibil-ity of open carry coming to Texas campuses. 
“As president of one of the larg-
est universities in the state and na-
tion,” the statement reads, “this is 
my fear: How will our campus po-lice easily and safely recognize the ‘good guys’ from the ‘bad guys?’ In the heat of a gun battle, how does a police officer quickly discern that one person is actually a law-abiding citizen trying to help and someone else is a ‘bad guy’ trying 
to hurt?”
GUNS , from page 1
“People are very divided... 
From my perspective, 
there hasn’t been clear 
research that shows one 
way or the other.”
Brad Bohlander 
Colorado State spokesman UFAdministrationClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Text "GP" to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$444 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroomAll inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR  � MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis
●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1600
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $5501 year lease, SD, NS, NPCall/Text 352-870-7256gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-1-11-29-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    3-3-11-30-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-1-11-19-2Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.   2-28-15-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com3-1-11-14-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
Beautiful. 1bd. 1ba. loft 5 min on freeway 
from SFC Renovated with tile & carpet.Pool,
Clubhouse, Exercise Room, Quiet location.
$425mo $425sec. $45appl. fee.
472-6491.
3-1-11-10-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-4-11-12-2Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Downtown garage/studio apt, off-street
parking, privacy. Behind Hippodrome, on 
bus lines. $420/mo, 1st, last and sec.
Call 352 373-6551, leave message.
3-4-9-2
Short term lease. Quiet, clean effi-
ciency. Archer Rd. View to woods.
Call 352 316-2966                     2-28-11-5-2
UF 7 blks, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL, HOT 
TUB, 2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park, respon -
sible students or professionals only.  Plasma TV incl. May-Aug $1775/mo; $2375/mo Aug on. 
Summer only option or yr lease. 352-222-0211   
3-1-11-5-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
3-18-11-10-2
3BR/2BA, 1940sq.ft. Quiet neighborhood. 
1.5 miles from U.F. Large fenced yard, wood 
floors, 2 car garage, and sun room. Available 
5/1. $1100/month. 3936 SW 3rd Ave. 352-
359-1270    3-25-11-15-2
Bellaproperties.net/Quiet Graduate 
Community
Luxury Spacious 2/2 and 2/1 with Loft/Must 
See/Starting at $283/Bedroom/Available 
August 2011/Call Today (352) 335-5424   
3-3-11-4-2
Arlington Square. Right downtown! Bus: 1&5. 
5 min bike to campus/15min walk. 2BR/2BA 
townhouse: high ceilings, in courtyard w/ 
pool. May-July. Unfurn/util not included. 
$470/person. 352 318 1014. jsmyth@ufl.edu   
3-1-10-3
One bedroom available in a 4/4. $480 + 
utilities. pet friendly. great roomates! The 
Woodlands Call 863-303-3359   3-4-5-3
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011  � ALLIGATOR , 11
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.    3-1-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!
All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
12, ALLIGATOR  � MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
2002 BMW Z3 3.0 roadster
green metallic/beige leather; 91,500 miles, 
good condition; $12,000; Loretta 352-665-5285   3-2-5-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...
Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!
Call Gary at 352-682-8838,
email dlimotors@yahoo.com or
stop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-
12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      3-18-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
NETWORK ASST
SALES CONSULTANTS
CEO ASSISTANT
Full time positions.
Send resume to hr@gleim.com
www.gleim.com         3-14-11-10-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply 
in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 
NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 
9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    2-28-11-10-14
Office Asst Paid Internship in Alachua. 
$12.00 hourly 10-15 hours weekly. Flexible 
schedule. Knowledge of Quickbooks a plus. 
Email resume to BiopressInfo@gmail.com.   
3-1-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive  po-
sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to 
alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-4-11-11-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems seeks 
sales consultants for Gainesville & Ocala.  Must have reliable transportation. BG Check and Drug Test Required. Fax resume to 352-376-9236 or e-mail info@cpss.net.   3-3-11-10-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
PT Tennis Clay-Court & Gen Maintenance 
Haile Plantation C.C. 6:30-9:30am shift + 1 wkend day, 10-15 hrs/wk. Must be reliable/responsibe. Tennis exp + G'ville residence a+. Bob 335-4105                    2-28-11-5-14
Experienced swim lesson instructor needed 
for local program. Part time hrs either in mornings or late afternoons. Please email resume with lesson experience and 3 refer-ences to jwilby@cox.net   3-16-11-10-14
HOMEWORK COACH NEEDED
for a 10th grader & a 5th grader who both need help in math & science. Approx 5-6 hrs/wk.-flexible, $10/hr. Please email credentials to: glennhmcinnes@bellsouth.net   3-2-11-5-14
Great deal!
Brand new home, perfect for college student, 
quiet community. 3 bed, two bath. Wont last. 699/mo Call 904-992-0141    3-18-11-10-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Project Manager/Account Director wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-
14
Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual 
with good attention to detail to work in an-
tibody purification and test development. 
Knowledge of ELISA methodology and basic 
immunology is desirable. Basic laboratory 
skills and ability to manage multiple projects 
required. B.S. in scientific field preferred; 
laboratory experience may be substituted. 
Email resume to info@elisa-tek.com   3-2-
11-4-14
Busy couple in need of dog sitting for a 
friendly dalmatian as well as light household 
chores. Approx. 15 hrs a wk. Please email 
letter / brief resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com 
with references.    3-3-5-14
Focus Group Members in Gainesville area 
wanted to discuss issues on real legal cases 
in North Florida. Paid for your time. For in-
formation please call Dana at 800-654-4659.    
3-1-11-2-14
SUMMER JOBS:
Recreation Camp Counselors/Supervisors 
for summer recreation program 6/13/11-
8/05/11 for children ages 5-14.  WSI/
Lifeguard and Maintenance Aides (5/11-
9/11).  Exp desirable.  City of Plantation 
(west of Ft Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave, 
Plantation, FL  33317 or www.plantation.org 
to download application.   3-4-11-5-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
●● HAND COLLATORS ●●
Temporary THIS WEEK Mon - Fri
5pm - 11:30pm. DFWP, no convicted felons. Call 375-2210   2-28-11-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15Share your own life story. Participants over 
40 years old are needed for research test-ing behavioral theories on real lives on all real behaviors- those that are normal, good, 
legal, and illegal. Please contact Zenta at 
ZENTAGS@UFL.EDU or (352-222-0883)
2-28-5-20
CHOW NOW FOOD TRUCK
Tuesdays 11am till 1:30pm
Behind Emerson Hall    3-1-11-2-20
need performance credit? 5$ student tickets 
for 'Nightingale and the Rose' at the HIPP, 
March 7, 7.30 pm, 352.375.4477   3-4-11-
5-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-
Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- 
HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...
Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.
2-28-11-2-21SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordable
Grammar, conversation, vocabulary
Contact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     
3-16-1-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696
3-31-20-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
Sports
ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org monday
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
alligatorSports Podcast alligatorSports Video Show SEC BASKETBALL STANDINGSn UF LOST TO KENTUCKY ON 
SATURDAY IN RUPP ARENA.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
LEXINGTON, Ky. — The Gators will 
need at least one more game to clinch the 
Southeastern Conference East crown.
No. 13 Florida (22-6, 11-3 SEC) en-
tered Rupp Arena with a chance to se-
cure the division title but never found a 
way to match up with No. 22 Kentucky (20-8, 8-6 SEC) in a 76-68 loss on Satur -
day.
“They wanted it more than us,” 
sophomore guard Kenny Boynton said. “They came out ready to play.”
The Wildcats’ athleticism, versatility 
and overall talent were too much for the 
Gators to overcome.
Those traits were exemplified by 
6-foot-7 guard Darius Miller, who scored 
a career-high 24 points and was effective against a bevy of UF defenders.
“It was tough getting a matchup for 
him tonight,” Boynton said. “He had a great game.”
Miller scored in a variety of ways, 
shooting over small, quick defenders like Boynton or driving past bigger oppo-nents like Alex Tyus and Patric Young.
The junior connected on 9 of 15 shots, 
including 2 of 4 from three-point range, and added five rebounds, three assists and three blocks.
“He’s one of the most complete play-
ers in the league,” UF coach Billy Dono-
van said. “He was a huge difference in 
the game.”
Miller and his teammates found suc-
cess driving to the basket against the Gators, giving the Wildcats their 33rd straight home win.
Although Florida employed a variety 
of defenses and lineup combinations, UK usually found a one-on-one match-
up it could exploit.
“We just really need to guard the ball 
better,” senior forward Chandler Par -
sons said. “What opens up their whole offense is the dribble-drive.”
Kentucky was effective when it 
spread the floor, as the team connected 
on 7 of 14 attempts from beyond the arc. That efficiency opened the lane even fur -
ther, something the Wildcats never hesi-
AP Photo
Kentucky guard Darius Miller shoots over Florida forward Alex Tyus during the 
Wildcats’ 76-68 win in Lexington, Ky., on Saturday.
Florida fails to clinch SEC East title
By JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
The defending national champions can fi-
nally call the Southeastern Conference their 
own.
The No. 1 Gators scored 148 points to hold 
off host No. 5 Arkansas (136.5 points) and win their first SEC Indoor Championship since 2004.
“Right now, we’re just doing what we’re 
supposed to do,” UF coach Mike Holloway said. “I was hired at the University of Flori-da to compete for championships, and that’s what we’re doing.”
The men’s team was propelled to its first 
conference crown in seven years thanks to eight individual SEC Championships over the weekend.
One of those conference 
champions was sprinter and 
The Bowerman award candidate Jeff Demps, who won the 60-meter dash with a season-best time of 6.55 seconds.
Demps, who won the national champion-
ship in the 60-meter dash last season (6.57 seconds), is favored to successfully defend his title.
“It sets us up well (for the national meet),” 
Demps said. “At the SEC title, we had Arkan-sas coming at the Gators, so it made us work harder and get ready for the national title (meet).”
Joining Demps as a title winner for Florida 
was distance runner Dumisane Hlaselo, who won SEC titles in the 3,000-meter run and the mile run.
Hlaselo’s two event victories earned the No. 1 UF men 
claim SEC 
indoor crown 
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org 
A gem, two more quality starts and a hidden-ball trick lat-
er, top-ranked Florida exited the weekend with a series sweep 
over Boston College.  
Before setting their sights on a pivotal early season match-
up against No. 10 Florida State in Tampa on Tuesday , the No. 
1 Gators (7-0) finished off the Eagles (2-4) with a 7-2 win be-
hind the arms of Karsten Whitson and Nick Maronde, among others. Whitson made the second start of his young career Sun-
day, and while his stat line was less impres-sive than his collegiate debut, the freshman flame-thrower tossed 5.1 solid innings and added more changeups to his repertoire. 
“I was really pleased with his outing,” 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “We called a bunch of changeups today to force him to throw that third pitch. I didn’t want to make it too difficult on him for this first start, but 
he’s going to need that changeup as he goes 
along.”Florida’s starters pitched well all series, as Brian Johnson 
tossed a gem Thursday.  The sophomore nearly threw six no-hit innings — including retiring a school-record 27 straight batters dating back to his opening-day start — in UF’s 4-0 vic-tory . 
On Friday , Hudson Randall pitched five quality innings, 
and the Gators blew open the game after two freshmen, Zack Powers and Daniel Gibson, fooled the Eagles with a backyard play . 
Engineered by a hidden-ball trick, the Gators escaped fur - Gators ride hot pitching, schoolyard trick to series sweep
O’Sullivan
Track
Teams still in contention:
1. Florida1. Alabama3. Vanderbilt4. Kentucky5. Georgia11-3 (22-6)
11-3 (19-9)
9-5 (21-7)
8-6 (20-8)
8-6 (19-9)SEE TRACK, PAGE 15
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
SEE BASE, PAGE 15
n Greg Luca, Jesse Simonton and GatorBait.net’s Kyle Maistri 
join host Adam Berry to discuss the last week in Florida basket-
ball, preview the final games of the Gators’ regular season and ponder their postseason future. Stream the show on our site, and be sure to subscribe on iTunes.n The seventh installment of our weekly video show 
brings you UF basketball coverage from Rupp Arena in Lexington, Ky., and more video and interviews from the Gators baseball team’s series against Bos -
ton College. Tune in on alligatorSports.org.n UF CAPPED A THREE-
GAME WINNING STREAK BY BEATING GEORGIA.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
Labeling the final chapter 
to a tough season for Florida, 
only one word seems to fit. 
Redemption. 
After one day of prepara-
tion following Thursday’s weather delay in Nashville, Tenn., the Florida women’s 
basketball team closed its 
regular season with a thrilling 
74-71 victory over rival No. 
22 Georgia in the O’Connell 
Center on Sunday. 
The win helped erase mem-
ories of the Gators’ 16-point 
collapse to the Bulldogs (20-9, 10-6 Southeastern Confer -
ence) in Athens, Ga., earlier 
this year. 
Florida (17-13, 7-9 SEC) 
extended its winning streak 
to three games by beating a Bulldogs team that entered the day second in the SEC.
“We’ve grown up,” Butler 
said. “We’ve matured in a lot of ways, and this team is 
starting to get what they de-
serve.” 
Florida came out running, 
establishing an early 10-6 lead, before guard Lanita Bar -
tley, who carried Florida in its past two games, picked up her second foul and left the 
game. 
UF went cold without 
Bartley’s penetration, and 
the Gators began to settle for shots from distance. 
They started 7 of 19 from 
the floor, including just 1 of 9 from three-point range, and trailed by eight late in the first half. 
But freshman guard Ja-
terra Bonds stepped up and drained threes on consecutive possessions, cutting Georgia’s lead to four.
Later, a Ndidi Madu jump-er and a Brittany Shine fast-
break pull-up cut the lead to 
two, the lone senior on the 
Gators’ roster made her mark on Senior Day. 
Ebonie Crawford, a 6-foot-
3 backup center, drew a foul under the Florida basket and 
went to the line with two 
seconds left in the half. She drained both, and Florida en-tered intermission tied at 35. 
“Hitting those two free 
throws to close out the first half was a big moment for me,” Crawford said.  
Crawford’s contribution 
epitomized what the Gators called a total team effort.
Three players scored in 
double digits, including Jor -
dan Jones with 18 in 37 min-utes and Deana Allen with 10 points and a team-high nine rebounds. 
Instead of fading when 
Georgia took the lead late in the game, the Gators stayed in control. 
Every time Georgia pushed 
closer, Florida had an answer — and most times, it was 
Jones or Bonds.
“All of us have that mental-
ity that we all want the ball,” 
Jones said. “In clutch mo-ments … we’d all ask coach Butler to draw up a play for us.” 
While Jones took her share 
of pivotal shots Sunday, it 
was the scoring of Bonds that 
made the difference.
Butler chided Bonds ear -
ly for putting up too many threes, but the freshman point guard caught fire. Bonds fin-ished 5 of 10 from beyond the arc en route to a career-
high 22 points, and Jones said 
she knew Bonds had the hot 
hand.
After making a three-
pointer of her own on the previous trip, Jones dished to Bonds for a wide-open look 
the next time down. Jones 
raised her hands to signal the make before Bonds’ feet even hit the floor. 
“I was just feeling it,” 
Bonds said. “If it looked good, I was going to take it.”
But even Bonds wouldn’t 
take credit for the victory. 
Instead, she pointed to Jones 
taking a late-game charge and center Azania Stewart’s rebound with 23 seconds left that secured the victory.
“Those were really the big-
gest plays,” Bonds said.14, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
Saj Guevara / Alligator
Florida guard Jaterra Bonds goes for a layup during the Gators’ 74-71 win against Georgia 
on Sunday. The victory, UF’s third straight, made it the No. 8 seed in the SEC Tournament.
Gators end regular season on high note 
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
The Gators were untouched all sea-
son. 
Unblemished and undefeated as they 
flew into Fayetteville, Ark., for their fi-
nal Southeastern Conference meet of the year, the team left hog country stained and stunned. 
The No. 15 Razorbacks ended No. 
1 Florida’s perfect season, beating UF 196.70 to 196.10. 
“It was truly a disappointment,” 
Florida coach Rhonda Faehn said. “It was an off night for just about every-one.”
Faehn said it all began with a rocky 
warm-up, which her gymnasts carried 
over into the competition. 
After a slew of mistakes, including 
out-of-bounds violations and falls on 
beam, it was clear the Gators (11-1, 5-1 
SEC) didn’t have their usual form.  
“There were so many mistakes here 
and there,” Faehn said. “They’re very 
upset, as they should be.”  
Ashanée Dickerson and Alaina John-
son, both all-arounders who have cap-tured SEC Gymnast of the Week titles, 
struggled against Arkansas (5-3, 5-1 
SEC). 
On beam, John-
son posted the 
lowest score of the 
meet, a 9.050, while Dickerson posted 
the third lowest, a 9.275. 
“We got a little bit lazy,” Faehn 
said. 
Johnson and Dickerson fell for the 
first time in their collegiate careers on 
beam in Barnhill Arena.
Florida also lost to Arkansas in the 
floor routine, and the teams tied on the bars. Led by Dickerson, the Gators’ lone 
win came in the vault.
Dickerson tied for first in that event 
and the floor exercise. Freshman Mack-
enzie Caquatto clinched uneven paral-
lel bars for the third time in a row. 
Faehn said the team’s collective off 
performance could be attributed to a 
combination of things, including the shortened week of training in the gym.
Due to the Gators’ back-to-back 
meets last weekend, the team only practiced twice before competing Fri-day. The squad usually pumps in four 
practices a week. 
Looking toward next week, Faehn 
said her squad would watch the video 
footage from the meet before getting into the gym to start training. 
“We need to not let it snowball,” 
Faehn said “We just need to go back and refocus.”UF suffers 
year’s first setback vs. 
Arkansas
By ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
Without two of their top five golfers 
in the John Hayt Invitational, the onus 
would be on the Gators’ three remain-
ing regulars to lead the team. 
All three turned in under-par scores 
Sunday in Ponte Vedra Beach, but it was not enough to earn the Florida men’s 
golf team a spot atop the leaderboard. 
Florida sits in fifth after one round 
of play, four shots behind tournament-
leading Auburn. 
The highlight of the day for the 
Gators was the play of sophomore Phil-lip Choi, who carded a 4-under-par 68 to tie for second in the individual stand-ings. 
The other regular starters for the 
Gators, senior Bank Vongvanij and sophomore Tyler McCumber, scored a 3-under-par 69 and a 1-under-par 71, respectively.
“It was an up-and-
down day, but we got great play out of Phil-lip and Bank,” UF coach Buddy Alexan-
der said. “Those guys 
played pretty well, and that’s a good sign for our team.”
The Florida women’s team, mean-
while, began the Allstate Sugar Bowl on Sunday, finishing tied for eighth with a team score of 10-over.
Sophomore Isabelle Lendl bounced 
back from her struggles at last week’s Northrup Grumman Regional Chal-
lenge by scoring a 2-under-par 70 to tie 
for fourth.
Gators coach Jan Dowling attribut-
ed Lendl’s success to a strong practice 
round on Saturday, which boosted her 
confidence coming into the tourna-ment. 
Florida’s eighth-place standing is 
made more impressive considering the 
remarkable strength of its competition 
in New Orleans. 
The field includes seven top-10 teams 
and a total of 12 squads ranked in the 
top 25.Florida men fifth, women eighth in tourneysUF GOLFGymnastics
Alexander
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
UF catcher Mike Zunino prepares to swing during the Gators’ 9-3 win against Boston College 
on Friday. Zunino went 4 for 9 with a home run and three RBIs during the series sweep.
Whitson escapes jams, K’s ﬁ  ve
ther damage in a tied seventh inning, grab-
bing the momentum and responding with six unanswered runs en route to a 9-3 vic-tory.
  Florida’s steady starting pitching con-
tinued Sunday , as Whitson consistently touched 93-94 mph, striking out ﬁ  ve, walk-ing one and allowing one run.
  The righty escaped several jams on the 
afternoon, including one in the fourth in-ning, when he allowed back-to-back sin-gles and failed to cover ﬁ  rst on a ﬁ  elder’s choice with the Gators up 5-0. 
  Visibly frustrated, the young pitcher 
earned a visit from Florida’s skipper.
  “He didn’t cover ﬁ  rst, and that’s obvi-
ously a no-no,” O’Sullivan said. “But I just wanted to go out there and make sure he put that behind him. I didn’t want it to spi-ral out of control.”
  Following O’Sullivan’s words of en-
couragement, Whitson regrouped and struck out BC’s Andrew Lawrence to end 
the threat.   “That was a brain fart by me,” Whitson 
said. “I was kind of a little pissed about 
that, but I just calmed down and made sure I got that next hitter out no matter what.”
  The Gators got on the board early in 
the series ﬁ  nale, scoring four runs in the second inning, two off a Nolan Fontana triple. 
  Catcher Mike Zunino matched a career 
high with three hits, including a double into the left-center-ﬁ  eld wall to lead off the second inning. The sophomore knocked a two-run homer in the eighth, practically in the same spot as his double, just 20 feet 
farther.
  
  ETC.: Maronde relieved Whitson with one 
out in the sixth, striking out both batters 
he faced. …For the second time in a week, Austin Maddox pitched the ninth for UF. … After going 5 for 8 with a homer and three RBIs in the ﬁ  rst two games of the series, Preston Tucker went 0 for 4 in the 
ﬁ  nale Sunday , seeing just ﬁ  ve pitches. … 
Josh Adams’ six-game hitting streak also ended in the series ﬁ  nale. BASE , from page 13
Walker struggles to score in loss
tated to take advantage of.
  “They were determined to get to 
the hole,” Boynton said. “We wanted 
to keep the ball out of the middle, but those guys drove to the middle when-ever they wanted.”
  That success yielded a 51.7 shooting 
percentage for UK, a number padded 
by a 16-for-29 effort in the second half.
  With the Gators trailing by one and 
about 13 minutes remaining, Kentucky 
hit eight of its next nine shots, includ-ing six in a row, during a 6:18 stretch to extend the lead to 10.
  “They weren’t missing,” Boynton 
said. “It was tough getting stops.”
  Boynton led the way on offense for 
UF, scoring 21 points on 7-of-13 shoot-ing, including 5 of 9 from three-point range.  Junior Erving Walker, on the other 
hand, had one of his worst games of the season.
  The starting point guard ﬁ  nished 
with 10 points, hit-ting just 2 of 11 from 
the ﬁ  eld and 1 of 6 
from beyond the arc.
  “It’s the ﬁ  rst time 
I felt like he did not 
necessarily play to the level he was playing,” Donovan said. “He didn’t have a typical Erving Walker game.”
  Florida also performed below its 
usual standards on the interior, as it 
was outrebounded 34-32 and outscored 
36-26 in the paint.
  While the Gators lost ground in the 
East, they remain tied with Alabama for the overall SEC lead after the Crim-son Tide’s 68-63 loss at Ole Miss on Sat-urday. HOOPS , from page 13
Bask etballSouth African junior 20 points and the Cliff 
Harper Trophy for the highest point total at the SEC meet this weekend.
  “It feels great (to win the Cliff Harper Tro-
phy and two SEC titles), and I’m really joy-
ful,” Hlaselo said. “I didn’t even know until 
they presented it, so I was excited about it.”
  In addition to Demps and Hlaselo, Kemal 
Mesic (shot put), Gray Horn (heptathlon), Ed-die Lovett (60-meter hurdles), Tony McQuay (200-meter dash) and The Bowerman award candidate Christian Taylor (triple jump) won SEC titles.
  The No. 21 Florida women placed ﬁ  fth 
with 55 points and had two athletes win SEC championships in their respective events.
  Two-time SEC Freshman of the Week Cory 
McGee won the mile run (4:41.10) defeating her closest competitor, Kristen Gillespie of Arkansas, by 5.04 seconds.
  The other UF champion was Fidela 
James, who won the women’s weight throw (19.83/65-0.75) and placed second in the women’s shot put (15.98m/52-5.25).
  After a strong showing by the No. 1 men’s 
team at the SEC meet, Florida is preparing to travel to College Station, Texas, on March 11-12 for NCAA Indoor Championships.
    “Nobody can put more pressure on us 
than ourselves,” Holloway said. “If you talk to (the team), they’ve been conﬁ  dent about this for a while.” Hlaselo wins Harper Trophy, two titles
TRACK , from page 1316, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
UF SOFTBALL
  By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
 Alligator Writer 
 
  It seems no one has an answer to the No. 4 Florida soft-
ball team. 
  Three weeks into the season, the Gators are off to the 
second-best start in team history with a 14-0 record. 
  After blowing out opponents to start the season, UF 
proved it could win close games, too, going 5-0 at the Ca-
thedral City Classic in Palm Springs, Calif. 
  During the trip, the Gators took down some of the best 
teams in the country, including defending Women’s Col-lege World Series champion No. 2 UCLA and No. 11 Tex-as. 
  It wasn’t easy, as the team had to scratch and claw its 
way back in several games — something the players felt would beneﬁ  t them later this year.
  “Being in tight games made it more like the postseason,” 
senior pitcher Stephanie Brombacher said. “The freshmen got a taste of what it’s going to be like.”  Luckily for the Gators, the top of the lineup came up 
with some timely hits despite facing its stiffest competition to date.  
  UF coach Tim Walton said the top three of Michelle 
Moultrie, Aja Paculba and Kelsey Bruder “sparked great-ness” and carried the team when the rest of the lineup was struggling. 
  Moultrie, in particular, was a pitcher’s 
nightmare. 
  The junior center ﬁ  elder was the Gators’ 
best hitter, coming up with the game-win-ning RBI single in the bottom of the ninth against the Longhorns on Friday. 
  “Michelle played as well as anyone 
I’ve ever coached in a weekend series,” Walton said. “She was our spark plug all 
the way.”
The reserved leadoff hitter’s contributions on the base 
paths, in the outﬁ  eld and at the plate haven’t gone unno-ticed by her teammates.   “Michelle was on ﬁ  re this weekend,” Brombacher said. 
“She kind of ﬂ  ew under the radar as a recruit, but she’s been someone we can count on.” 
  The Gators’ right-handed ace picked up two more vic-
tories to improve her record to 8-0.  Although her scoreless innings streak ended at 32, Brombacher battled all week-end while facing much stronger lineups. 
  However, the Gators’ top pitcher proved to be freshman 
Hannah Rogers, who earned three wins and her ﬁ  rst career save. 
  Despite facing the No. 2 Bruins, the young righty found 
success with her effective changeup, which she has worked on since last summer. 
  The combination of Rogers and Brombacher has been 
rock solid and a testament to the team’s depth. 
  “For a freshman to take on that type of opponent was 
huge,” Walton said. “We have three very capable pitch-ers in Hannah, Stephanie and Ensley Gammel. Ensley not pitching is more of a statement about how well Hannah is playing.”  Gators stay undefeated with wins over top-ranked teams
Walton
n COACH WILL MUSCHAMP 
TO MAKE $1.3 MILLION LESS THAN URBAN MEYER.  
By TYLER JETT
 Alligator Staff Writer
tjett@alligator.org
 
  To lure offensive coordinator Char-
lie Weis away from the NFL, Florida 
athletic director Jeremy Foley made him the highest paid assistant in school 
history.
  Weis signed a three-year contract 
with a base salary of $2.49 million 
earlier this month, according to docu-ments released by the University Ath-letic Association on Friday. He will take home an annual base salary of $765,000 this season before receiving an extra $100,000 for the next two seasons, as-
suming he stays with the Gators. Weis 
also received a $100,000 signing bonus.
  In all, UF’s nine assistant coaches 
will make $2.9 million in base salary this season. That is a $275,000 increase over the salaries of last year’s assistants. 
  Florida more than made up for that 
ﬁ  nancial difference with new coach Will Muschamp’s contract. Muschamp will 
reportedly make $2.7 million in base salary this season. Former coach Urban 
Meyer hauled in $4 million per year.
  The second highest paid assistant 
will be defensive coordinator Dan Quinn, who signed a two-year, $1 mil-lion contract. He will make $490,000 
this year and $510,000 next year.
  Weis and Quinn will make a com-
bined $1.3 million this year. Florida’s 
previous coordinators, Steve Add-azio and Teryl Austin, made a total of $815,000.
  Offensive line and defensive line 
coaches Frank Verducci and Bryant Young are the only other assistants 
with multi-year contracts. They will an-
nually bring in $290,000 and $230,000, respectively.
  The other ﬁ  ve assistants are signed 
to one-year deals, making an average of $230,000.
  Running backs coach Brian White 
and linebackers coach/special teams coordinator D.J. Durkin are the only 
holdovers from Meyer’s staff. White 
will receive the same salary he did last year ($240,000) while Durkin was re-warded a $20,000 raise, bringing his sal-ary to $260,000.
  All coaches will receive the same 
$10,000 bonus from Nike that last year’s staff did.  Weis, 2011 assistants signed for more than 2010 staff
Football Coaches Salary Breakdown
   2010     2011
Def. coordinator Teryl Austin:         $440,000 Dan Quinn:           $490,000
WRs   Zach Azzani:      $240,000 Aubrey Hill:            $230,000
RBs   Stan Drayton:     $240,000 Brian White:          $240,000
LBs   D.J. Durkin:         $240,000 D.J. Durkin:            $260,000
QBs   Scot Loeffler:      $240,000 Charlie Weis:         $765,000*
DL   Dan McCarney: $330,000 Bryant Young:       $230,000
TEs   Brian White:        $240,000 Derek Lewis:          $190,000
DBs   Chuck Heater:    $240,000 Travaris Robinson: $230,000
OL   Steve Addazio:   $375,000* Frank Verducci:     $290,000
*Also UF’s offensive coordinatorHere is how the Florida assistants’ salaries compare with last year’s staff:
Tyler Jett and Alexander Silva / Alligator Staff