We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 62 FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgThree rodeo bulls make a run for it through Idaho town
POCATELLO, Idaho — Rodeo week in 
Pocatello kicked off with an unscheduled 
running of the bulls as three of the buck-ing beasts broke free and headed through town with cowboys and police in pursuit.
The bulls were being unloaded 
Wednesday afternoon for the Xtreme Bulls event when they made a run for it. The animals were corralled about a mile away from Idaho State’s Holt Arena.
Pocatello Frontier Rodeo Association president Robert Askey says the biggest challenge was keeping people safe and keeping the huge animals calm and off the main streets.
The Xtreme Bulls event went on as 
scheduled Wednesday night. The West-ern Frontier Pro Rodeo continues with the Wrangler Million Dollar Silver Tour Rodeo performances Thursday through Saturday.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSn  UF quarterback 
John Brantley 
(right) was sup -
posed to provide a 
polished passing 
game in 2010, but 
he enters the 
annual spring 
game trying to do 
the same this year.
See Story, Page 18.
Sunny
89/62FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18BLUEPreviewORANGE
page 9
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF student Gabrielle Rushing puts the finishing touches on her hair and makeup before heading to 
a Playboy photo shoot in hopes of being chosen for the magazine’s “Girls of the SEC” pictorial.
n THE DEADLINE IS AT MIDNIGHT.
By MORGAN WATKINS 
and CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writers
A  political stalemate in Congress over the 
federal budget may force the federal govern-
ment to come to a halt if Democrats and Re-publicans fail to strike a deal. 
If they can’t reach a compromise by the end 
of today, the federal government will partially cease operations.
With the political atmosphere on Capitol 
Hill growing more testy, Democrats and Re-publicans are playing a game of “chicken,” said Albert Matheny, associate dean for the 
UF College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and a 
political science professor. “The sad thing is that it symbolizes the 
confrontational approach of a Congress will-ing to play games when we really need rea-sonable discussion of important fiscal issues, with suggestions for reasonable alternatives instead of grandstanding,” he said in an email interview. 
The last time a partial government shut-
down occurred was in 1995 when President Bill Clinton rejected two proposed budgets put forth by the Republican-controlled Congress. Some see the shutdown as the moment when Republicans, who were enjoying their greatest grip on the legislative branch  since the 1950s,  lost the political momentum they had been riding since the 1994 midterm elections. 
Michael Bowen, a visiting lecturer in the 
history department at UF whose research fo-
cuses on American conservatism, pointed to Political posturing may lead to shutdown
LOCAL
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
This week, about 100 Gators had the 
chance to become bunnies.
Playboy held a casting call in 
Gainesville on Tuesday and Wednes-
day for female UF students interested in appearing in its upcoming “Girls of the SEC” pictorial. 
Between March 27 and April 19, 
teams of Playboy representatives will travel to each of the 12 schools in the Southeastern Conference in search of 
models to grace the magazine’s Octo-
ber issue. 
Although it’s still early in the pro-
cess, UF girls have set themselves apart. 
“There’s a certain amount of class 
and beauty that you can’t find any-where else than Florida,” said Jared Ryder, a photographer and producer with Playboy. “UF girls are amazing. They’re intelligent and they’re beau-tiful, and that’s the perfect storm of 
what we’re looking for.”
The team dispatched to UF was 
charged with trimming the large pool of applicants down to a group of about 
10. 
Of those 10, somewhere between 
one and six will likely appear in the is-sue, as decided by editors at Playboy 
headquarters in Chicago. Playboy hosts casting 
call for UF playmates
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
UF students should expect to fork over more money next 
semester when it comes to parking. 
In the fall, a yearlong motorcycle or scooter decal will cost 
$48 more, and a yearlong student automobile decal will cost 
$10 more.
This school year, a motorcycle or scooter decal cost $96 for 
a year and $48 for a semester. In fall, it will cost $144 for a year 
and $72 for a semester.This year, a student automobile decal cost $134 for a year 
and $67 for a semester. It will cost $144 for a year and $72 for a semester.
Scott Fox, director of UF Transportation and Parking Ser -
vices, said motorcycle and scooter decal prices will be more expensive because his department discovered about 80 percent of riders would take a bus if they didn’t drive a scooter or mo-
torcycle.
The original idea behind keeping those decals cheap, he 
said, was to encourage the use of more fuel-efficient transpor -tation. Fox said the department does not want to discourage the use of the bus system.
He said student car decals will be more expensive because 
his department, which doesn’t receive university or state funding, needs to make more money so it can pay its bills.
Jaclyn Schwarz, a  telecommunications sophomore at UF, 
said paying more for her scooter decal is frustrating.
 “It really picks into my savings,” she said.
Lawrence Granger, a computer engineering junior at UF, 
said he won’t be able to afford a scooter decal in the fall.
“I understand that there’s a money crunch,” he said. “but 
you’re trying to crunch money out of the poorest population 
in Gainesville.”Cost of campus scooter decals to increase 50 percent
They will cost $144 a year starting in the fall“There’s a certain amount 
of class and beauty that you 
can’t find anywhere else               
than Florida.”
Jared Ryder
photographer and producer with Playboy
NewsLocalSEE SHUTDOWN, PAGE 8
SEE PLAYBOY, PAGE 8News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 62 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Safid Deen, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
The Kickoff Block Party
Today, 11:30 a.m.Institute of Black CultureCelebrate the end of the year 
with food, a live DJ, games and 
giveaways.
Tango Class & Social
Today, 8 p.m.308-B W. University Ave.UF Argentine Tango Club offers classes every week. No partners or experience necessary . Come 
to learn, dance or just watch. 
Admission is $5 for the public and free for UF students. 
UF SERU: iPad Demonstration
Today, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasLog on to ISIS today and fill out the SERU survey for a chance to 
win an iPad. Learn more about 
the SERU survey at the demon-stration. Check  out facebook.com/UFSERU and twitter.com/UFSERU for more infor -
mation.
Pancake Breakfast
Saturday, 8 a.m. to 10 a.m.
Gator’s Dockside on Newberry 
RoadEnjoy a delicious pancake breakfast for a great cause. UF Circle K International is host-ing this benefit for the Reichert House, a local youth academy for at-risk boys. For $6, break-fast includes two eggs, two 
pancakes, two pieces of bacon 
or sausage and a drink. Tickets available at the door. For more information, email mmcgehe@ufl.edu.
Gallery T alk 
Saturday , 3 p.m. Harn Museum of Art 
UF doctoral candidates 
MacKenzie Moon Ryan and Jordan Fenton will discuss their Southwest Recreation Center 
Sand Volleyball Courts
Charity beach volleyball tour -
nament with all proceeds ben-efiting the Special Olympics of Alachua County . Registration is $20 per team of four to six players, and there are separate brackets for mens, womens and co-rec teams, with winners de-
clared from each. 
End of the Year Banquet
Sunday, 7 p.m.
Reitz Union Rion BallroomJoin Islam on Campus for its end-of-the-year Banquet. The banquet will consist of awards, presentations and entertain-
ment.  Refreshments and drinks 
will be served.  All are wel-
come, so please invite friends.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. 
Please model your submissions 
after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. contributions to the exhibition 
“Africa Interweave: Textile 
Diasporas.”
Environmental Horticulture 
Spring Plant SaleSaturday and Sunday , 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.Fifield Hall GreenhousesLooking to get new plants for 
the spring season at a great 
price? Come visit the Fifield Hall Greenhouses by the Southwest Recreation Center. Herbs, butterfly plants, in-door plants, hanging baskets and trees abound.
Concert at Century Tower
Sunday, 3 p.m.Century TowerConcert featuring guest art-ists Sue Bergren, carillon, and Maggie Bergren, percussion. Bring a blanket and come sit outside around the tower to listen to the bells and ma-rimba.
Electric Contra
Sunday, 4 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomThe Contra Dancing Club hosts an “electric contra” fea-turing the band Full Circle and caller Dana Parkinson. No partner or experience 
needed. Entrance is $5 for 
students and $8 for everyone else. 
Serving It Up for Special 
Olympics FloridaSunday, 4 p.m.
SUNNY
89/62SUNNY
91/62SUNNY
91/63SUNNY
85/57THUNDER
STORMS
88/65MONDAY TUESDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
n THEY SELL THEIR CLOTHING ONLINE AT 
WEARVISCOSITY.COM.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Clothes get old, fall out of style and are often discarded 
by their keepers seasons later.
But a good piece of fashion never dies, especially once the 
girls of Viscosity Vintage get their hands on it.
Sisters Valesca St.Cyr, 22, and Rejina Tyson, 29, are on a 
mission to take abandoned clothes and accessories and turn them into something fashionable.
“It’s going against the norm,” St.Cyr said. “This is against 
what’s popular. It’s still in style, but with your own flair.” 
Their passion for thrifting is life-long, forming out of 
their childhood need for cute clothes on the cheap. With a family of nine and a father in the taxi business, their stay-
at-home mom taught them to take their stylish know-how 
to bargain stores and turn something used into something 
fresh and chic.
Growing up in Miami, their peers were often more af-
fluently dressed, but the sisters cultivated a reputation for having their own fun and unique style.
It was last summer when the girls decided to take their 
passion a step further and start putting looks together for 
sale, combining pieces from different eras to create afford-
able, one-of-a-kind outfits that could give the wearer confi-dence and an alternative to trendy mall fashions.
The name Viscosity Vintage, suggested by their chemist 
sister, is meant to evoke a sense of going against the flow of 
modern fashion and daring to be different.
“Our goal is that you should stand out in a good way,” 
St.Cyr said.
Though the business is young, it’s been well received by 
the Gainesville fashion community. The sisters have already reached their aspiration of participating in Gainesville Fash-
ion Week. They showed more than 30 looks during Thurs-day’s runway event.
“It was our original goal to be part of Gainesville Fashion 
Week,” Tyson said. “For that goal to have been realized … for us to be a part of it is really exciting.”
For now, prospective customers can buy Viscosity looks online at wearviscosity.com, but the sisters hope to one day expand their business and open a boutique in town so more 
people can find joy in breathing new life into old clothes.
“We see this as our entry into the market,” St.Cyr said. 
“We plan to have more shows in Gainesville in the future.”
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator
Vintage clothing ambassadors Valesca St.Cyr, left, and Rejina Tyson, pose with some of their clothing at their apart-
ment Thursday afternoon. The sisters started their clothing company, Viscosity Vintage, last summer.
Sisters’ clothing site brings old fashions back in style
By KARI PFLANZER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Hare Krishnas weren’t the 
only ones dishing out plates of 
vegan food Thursday afternoon on the Plaza of the Americas.
The annual VegFest kicked off 
around lunchtime as members of Animal Activists of Alachua served vegan food from local Gainesville restaurants and national vegan 
food companies.
VegFest, meant to educate hun-
gry passersby about veganism and 
promote animal activism, provid-ed students with a small taste of 
vegan foods ranging from tofurkey 
sandwiches made with Vegenaise, 
a vegan mayonnaise, to vegan ice cream from Luna and Larry’s Co-conut Bliss. 
Anandani Maharaj, president 
of Animal Activists for Alachua and a senior criminology major, said being 
a vegan or a vegetarian is much 
easier in Gainesville than most cit-
ies and that is what VegFest was meant to convey.
Gainesville restaurants, many 
of which donated to VegFest, made it known that they offer vegan and vegetarian options in order to at-
tract those customers, she said.
“VegFest is a great way for us to 
promote our cause while promot-
ing their food,” Maharaj said.
Satchel’s Pizza has 21 vegan and 
vegetarian pizzas on their menu. 
“We even have a vegan oatmeal raisin cookie that is baked on the premises if the pizza options don’t entice you enough,” Bushnell said.
Maharaj was most excited about 
the vegan pizza from Satchel’s, made with Daiya, a tapioca-based non-dairy cheese, green peppers, tomato and basil.
“It’s hard to find a good veg-
an pizza, but Satchel’s has got it down,” Maharaj said.Annual VegFest gives students taste of vegan lifestyle
Local restaurants donated vegan menu items
UFProjectsBy MIRANDA MOORE
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 100 people 
marched down University Av-
enue on Thursday night to speak out against date rape and sexual abuse. 
Supporters of Take Back the 
Night, an international move-ment that raises awareness of sex-ual assault and provides support for victims, participated in a walk 
that took them from the Plaza of 
the Americas to the Reitz Union, all to raise awareness about the issues of rape and sexual abuse. 
“College students are espe-
cially vulnerable, and they don’t know what to look out for,” said Jennifer Stuart of the Counseling and Wellness Center. 
Students ages 16 to 24 are at 
the greatest risk for sexual as-sault, according to Laura Kalt,  an advocate counselor for the 
Alachua County Victim Services 
and Rape Crisis Center. 
“A lot of sexual assault occurs 
with acquaintance rape, date rape and through alcohol facilitation,” 
Kalt said. 
One of the goals of the event was to dispel the myth that if women stayed inside at night, 
rapes wouldn’t happen. It started with women reacting to the no-
tion that they shouldn’t have to 
live in fear. “When sexual assault happens, 
it is never the victim’s fault,” Kalt said.The walk ended with six vol-
unteer speakers, five females and one male, who shared their expe-riences with rape and sexual as-sault. 
“The sad reality is that anyone 
can become a victim at any time,” said Rocio Lopez, president of VOX, one of the sponsoring orga-nizations.
Lauren Book, one of the speak-
ers and a victim of sexual assault who faced abuse for six and half years from her female nanny, is walking 1,000 miles to raise 
awareness and gain support for 
victims. She started in the Florida Keys and will finish in Tallahas-see in 39 days. 
“I carry the names of victims 
in my pocket to make my voice stronger,” Book said. “Predators thrive in darkness and silence. Let’s bring light to that dark-
ness.”4, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
UF students march along University Avenue during the Take Back the Night event Thursday evening.  The 
walk was an effort to speak out against sexual assault and promote Sexual Assault Awareness Month.
ACTIVISMMen, women walk for sexual assault awareness
n IT STRUCK AROUND 11:30 P.M.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
A big aftershock rocked quake-weary Japan 
late Thursday , rattling nerves as it knocked out 
power to the northern part of the country and prompted tsunami warnings that were later canceled.
The quake was initially measured at mag-
nitude-7.4, though the U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, Colo., later downgraded it to 7.1. Either way, it was the strongest aftershock since several were recorded on March 11 — the day of the magnitude-9.0 earthquake and tsunami that killed as many as 25,000 people and touched off a nuclear crisis last month.
There were no immediate reports of seri-
ous injuries or major damage, and the opera-tor of the tsunami-ravaged Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant said there was no sign the aftershock had caused new problems there. 
The aftershock around 11:30 p.m. was 
strong enough to knock items off store shelves and move a large automated teller machine at a FamilyMart convenience store in the major northern industrial center of Sendai. The city 
is far enough inland that it avoided major tsu-
nami damage, but people there were without gas and electricity for weeks.
Manager Takehiko Akagi said 100 people 
had showed up within an hour of Thursday’s aftershock and cleared the shelves of ice, water and instant noodles — items that were in short supply after the bigger quake.
In Ichinoseki, which is also inland, build-
ings shook violently, knocking items from shelves and toppling furniture, but there also appears to be no major damage there. 
Japan’s nuclear safety 
agency said nuclear fa-cilities along the north-eastern coast were un-der control after backup 
generators kicked in at two — Rokkasho and Higashidori — that lost power.
The aftershock knocked out two of three 
power lines at the Onagawa nuclear power plant north of Sendai, which has been shut down since the tsunami. One remaining line was supplying power 
to the plant and radiation monitoring devices 
detected no abnormalities. The plant’s spent 
fuel pools briefly lost cooling capacity, but it resumed because a power line was available for electricity.
Since the tsunami warning was canceled 90 
minutes after it was issued, there was no rea-son to believe the facilities’ diesel generators would fail like the ones at the stricken Fuku-shima plant.
Officials said the aftershock hit 25 miles un-
der the water and off the coast of Miyagi pre-fecture. The USGS later downgraded it to 7.1.
Buildings as far away as Tokyo, which was 
about 200 miles from the epicenter, shook for about a minute.
Strong aftershock rattles earthquake-weary Japan 
NewsInternational“College students are 
especially vulnerable, and 
they don’t know what to 
look out for.”
Jennifer Stuart
Counseling and Wellness Centern 18 CAKES WERE ENTERED IN THE CONTEST.
By KRISTEN WASKO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students passing in front of Library West on Thursday 
morning were treated to books they could really sink their 
teeth into.
The fifth annual Edible Book Contest, hosted by UF’s George 
A. Smathers Libraries, celebrated National Library Week with 18 different book-themed cakes. 
Each creation reflected the theme of a book, from Harry Pot-
ter and “Alice in Wonderland”  to  “Where the Wild Things 
Are.”
Jennifer Childree, a 28-year-old graduate of Santa Fe Col-
lege, won the contest for her cake based on the Dr. Seuss book 
“Oh, the Places You’ll Go!” 
Childree said she chose that book because she really likes 
how it relates to real life.
She said her cake took three days to create.“I’d love to do it again,” Childree said. “It was a lot of fun.”A panel of three judges chose the winners in the four re-maining categories including best children’s book, best adult book, best pun and the most realistic book.
Library Reserves Coordinator Angela Mott has been help-
ing with the UF Read-A-Thon festivities since 2005. According to Mott, the contest continues to grow each year.
Mott said every library tries to do something to celebrate 
National Library Week. The Edible Book Contest is just a fun contest the libraries at UF like to put on. FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
People’s choice award winner Jennifer Childree holds up a cooking apron that was included in her grand prize for 
the Edible Book Contest. Her Dr. Seuss cake design was based on the book “Oh, the Places You’ll Go!”
Dr. Suess cake 
wins literary baking contest
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
For those who hate waiting in traffic, help 
may be a click away.
A traffic-tracking website that updates 
traffic information throughout the day, gac-
smartraffic.com, launched Thursday.
Philip Mann, traffic operations manager for the City of Gainesville, presented the website to the Gainesville City Commission 
on Thursday as an unveiling of sorts. The commissioners said they thought the web-
site was a step in the right direction for the 
city.
Mann said the website is a part of the 
Traffic Management System, a collaborative project of the City of Gainesville, Alachua 
County, UF and the Florida Department of Transportation, and is a small part of the system’s $18.2 million budget.
If someone knows what roads are 
jammed, he or she will know to take another road and won’t 
become another car stuck in the backup, Mann said in an 
interview after his presentation to the com-mission.
Website staff use cameras attached to traffic lights to find the jams and post the in-formation on the site’s main page map.
Mann said his staff scans fire depart-
ment and police alerts for accidents. When they find one, they put an exclamation mark 
on the site’s map, tweet the location of the 
crash and post an update on the project’s Fa-
cebook page.
“It’s important for us to maximize the ef-
ficiency of the roads we have,” he said.Website lets drivers check their route for traffic jams
NewsLocalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Are you going to the Orange and Blue Debut? 57% YES43% NO
86 TOTAL VOTESThursday’s question: Will a government shutdown negatively affect Obama’s campaign?Obama and his never-ending campaign
It’s official. On Monday, President Obama released 
a Web video that formally kicked off his re-election campaign for 2012. Four years ago, Obama launched 
the campaign that took the nation by storm — a cam-paign that used words and branding to stir up a kind 
of hysteria that launched an unknown Illinois senator 
into rock star status and, ultimately, the White House.  
And then he never stopped campaigning.
After winning the presidential bid, he traveled 
abroad to campaign for his presidency. He visited many countries, apologizing for America and promoting him-self wherever he went.
He apologized for our military. He apologized for 
our economic dominance. He apologized for our health 
care system. He apologized for our concept of American 
exceptionalism. And he assured everyone that although America sucks, it would suck less with him in charge.
Then, back home, he set about campaigning for his 
agenda, which began with Obamacare. Although the vast majority of Americans did not want government-run or mandated health care, Obama went to town hall after town hall in an effort to convince the American people that they were wrong and he was right. After 
cramming the legislation through Congress, he then 
went on another campaign tour to assuage the over -
whelming opposition to its passage and persuade the people that once they found out what was in the bill, they would like it.
It is a president’s responsibility to sufficiently relate 
his agenda to the public and to lawmakers in order to gain support for its accomplishment. However, Obama has gone beyond the usual coalition-based policy im-
plementation tactics to the point where he has become 
Campaigner-in-Chief for the modern liberal move-ment.
Hardly a week goes by without Obama calling a 
summit to campaign for one cause or another — be it bullying, green energy, or gays in the military. He even took some time to campaign against the state of Arizona when it passed an im-migration bill into law— a bill that 
was to merely enforce already ex-
isting federal law.
Obama feels the need to perpet-
ually remain on the campaign trail because campaigning is the only 
thing he is good at. His reputation was as a commu-nity organizer, which involved campaigning for differ -
ent causes within his community. Then he campaigned for state legislature, U.S. Senate and president. With 
so much practice at campaigning, he was able to make 
empty words and promises seem inspirational and powerful. Yet now, in addition to his words, we have a track record to examine — one that involves strong-arm Chicago-style politics, government takeovers, double-dip recession and high unemployment.
Obama can continue to campaign for himself and his 
causes to his heart’s content, but people have stopped listening. The campaign website features a man who 
says, “I don’t agree with Obama on everything, but I 
respect him and I trust him.” This pretty much says it all — the only chance Obama has is if all his supporters, like this man, ignore their horror over his results and remain committed to their faith in the image of Obama they have chosen to believe in.
But the buzz is gone, and it is just not going to hap-
pen. There is not enough leftover hope and change in the back of the fridge to scrounge up a re-election vic-
tory, and whatever Republican opponent emerges from 
the fog will have a much easier road to the White House than could ever have been imagined four years ago. 
Bob Minchin is a fourth-year electrical engineering ma-
jor. His column appears on Fridays.
Is that “The Final Countdown” we hear playing? 
We can see the finish line, Gators, but there’s still plenty 
to be done between hitting the books, signing leases and, 
for some of us, preparing to walk at graduation. Because 
we’re not giving up on the last leg of this marathon, we proudly present you with the get-your-jammies-ready-because-we’re-about-to-put-another-semester-to-bed edi-
tion of...
Darts & Laurels
Speaking of marathons, the Children’s Miracle Net-
work at Shands Children’s Hospital received more than 
$700,000 in donations this week. While we may have 
gotten tired of hearing entirely-too-peppy girls chirping 
“DM” ad infinitum, we can’t argue with the results. Any time you want to help kids, we’ll be happy to give you a round of applause. 
With that said, we award a just-staying-awake-for-26-
.2-hours-would-be-a-feat-for-us LAUREL to all the Dance 
Marathoners who raised a mind-blowing amount of mon-ey for a great cause. 
Great job, guys.
That isn’t to say we haven’t had some money-central 
complaints this week. 
We’re still wondering about Wednesday night’s Daniel 
Tosh show, for which we collectively forked over $66,000. Our problem doesn’t originate with the fact that that man 
isn’t particularly funny — when you see people waiting eight hours for a comedian, you know someone likes him — but rather with all the hoops Accent and SGP jumped through in getting the performance ready. So, as we did 
with Andy Samberg, we’ve got to hurl a DART at Daniel 
Tosh. The demand for a smaller crowd is ridiculous and 
unwarranted. 
Remember Gator Growl 2001? 
Probably not, but Tosh performed in front of 51,000 
people in The Swamp. 
We’re calling shenanigans. 
But our financial head-scratching doesn’t begin to rival 
that of our federal government. By midnight tonight, we 
could be in the midst of a shutdown. 
While we’re not too concerned about the possibility — 
who knows when that stopgap might go through -— we’re 
still not happy with the idea of leaving federal workers 
high and dry while our politicians stubbornly lock horns. 
We understand we have monumental problems such as 
abortion and climate change that need to be addressed, 
but now isn’t the time to throw all of them on the table. For trying to pick a fight involving everything including the 
kitchen sink, we’re throwing a get-the-wax-out-of-your-
ears-because-both-sides-have-valid-points DART at our 
politicians in Washington. 
To be honest, though, not many of us will be concerned 
with the government come Saturday afternoon. Instead, we’ll be basking in sun, watching the birth of next year’s football dreams. It couldn’t come at a better time. 
Although we know we should be using those few hours 
to study, complete projects or work on the bazillion-page 
paper due on Monday, we’re going to don our school col-
ors and take the day off. For giving us an excuse to slow down and practice our cheers, we’re giving a this-will-
have-to-do-until-fall-rolls-around LAUREL to the Orange 
and Blue Debut.
Until next week, you know where to find us. If we’re 
not at The Swamp or our office, we’ll be partying at Club West.
Bob Minchin
letters@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Accent drops ball on school speakers this year
Accent has a fantastic history of bringing good speak-
ers to UF. A look through past speakers on  Accent’s web-
site has names of historic figures who have shaped history 
and taken their time (and UF’s money) to speak in this 
middle-of-nowhere place of Gainesville. The self-stated goal of Accent is to bring “prominent, controversial and influential speakers” to UF. Since I have been here, the 
likes of Jack Kevorkian, John Kerry (see tazing incident 
in school history), the Mythbusters, Bill Nye the Science Guy, Mike Rowe and John Legend have all made appear -
ances. I can tell people I’ve heard Dr. Jack speak his crazy-ass mind after he got out of jail for euthanizing all those 
people or that I was there when that Meyer kid made a 
national storm by being a fool.
This year the two main speakers were Penn and Teller 
and Daniel Tosh.
Eh.Is this the best we can do? A speaker who gets “ner -
vous” in front of larger crowds and one person in a two-person group who doesn’t talk?
I walked around the day of Tosh’s performance and 
heard a girl on her cellphone saying, “Yeah, I’m gonna go 
see this Tosh.O guy.”
That’s not even his name. But that girl was heading to 
get in line at 1 p.m. while I was, you know, heading off 
to class.
Accent should save the money from having two speak-ers to have one of great substantial quality if that’s what it takes. I want to talk about what these people had to say, not complain that I couldn’t get in because I came too late or that the speaker suddenly got shy.
They also should never have anyone speak in the 
Phillips Center if the speaker is the type of person who would fill it up. We should be maxing out capacity at the O’Dome, or hell, even having these people talk at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium if that’s what it takes. It should be ev-
ery student’s right to see these speakers that I’m sure we 
the students somehow end up paying for anyway. Also, $66,000 for 4,900 people equals $13.46 per person. I don’t need school to tell me that is probably not as good a deal 
as other speaker-to-audience proportions.
So, Accent, please save up your advertising, money, 
excitement and my time for someone who I’ll talk about 
weeks for beforehand and weeks afterward and maybe the rest of my life, like Dr. Death.
Not this Tosh.O guy.
Alex Kaufman
5EG
n n n
Alligator apology disingenuous
Inaccuracies and all, Tuesday’s feature about a certain 
math whiz did not bother me. As a daily reader, I have come to expect a certain level of flawed reporting, sen-sationalism and biases from your crack team at the Al-ligator. That, coupled with the already innocuous nature of a story about a smart student attending a university, 
shocking as that may be, elicited little more than a shrug 
from me.
On the other hand, your apology was the most disin-
genuous, insolent piece you have published in my three 
years at UF. Despite the various evolutions in member -
ship your editorial board has undergone in those years, 
the most basic facts regularly escape your clumsy grip. What’s more, you have proudly flaunted this tragedy of journalism you call a newspaper without a modicum of 
reverence for the truth. For you to now emerge from un-
der your own collective ego to bury an apology for mis-representing a story that affects absolutely no one while simultaneously polluting stories of real importance with 
fresh lies and biases insults the intelligence of this audi-
ence and exposes your blindness.
Those who accept your renewed calls for accuracy and 
fairness truly deserve this publication, but do not expect respect from readers who have a desire for reliable report-
ing.
But fear not!
As long as you continue to publish a daily crossword 
puzzle, you will always have a faithful patron in me.
Anthony Garcia
UF student
Imagine, instead of a flashing light on the 
top of an intersection, a radio-operated sys-tem that could cut off music inside a pri-
vate car and give a message that emergency vehicles are in an intersection.
This system could be in cars by 2013.Larry Head, department head of systems 
and industrial engineering, is spearheading research to make intersections safer for emer -
gency responders and public transit more ef-ficient. He’s working to make it a requirement for all passenger cars, pending approval from a committee in the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
“It’s like seatbelts (the technology) and the 
savings benefit from reducing crashes and saving lives,” Head said.
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood 
announced Friday that the number and rate of traffic fatalities in 2010 fell to the lowest lev-els since 1949. Arizona had the second highest drop in fatalities in the nation, 11 percent, and Head is hoping their 5.9-gigahertz technology , which operates like wireless Internet between intersection receptors and car radios, could make that decrease even larger.
“Last year’s drop in traffic fatalities is wel-
come news, and it proves that we can make a difference,” LaHood said in a news release.
Head’s team has been capitalizing on the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administra-tion’s development and use of technologies to prevent crashes, such as electronic stability control, forward collision warning and lane departure warning systems. 
After testing the system at an Arizona in-
tersection, the team partnered with Maricopa County to repli-cate the system formulated in the Living Transpor -
tation Technology Lab. In a two-decade part-
nership with the city of Tucson, University of 
Arizona researchers have been studying traf-fic, from the evolution of traffic patterns to this new research.
“What’s new about what we do is that the 
intersection knows about multiple vehicles, but for a car, there’s no feedback from the in-tersection,” Head said. 
“Operators of fire trucks and ambulances 
are trained to enter an intersection safely , and that slows them down. They are always going to have to watch out for the driver that’s not paying attention, but we’re making it safer for fire truck to fire truck.”On average, emergency vehicles respond to 
more than 30 million calls annually , but their crash fatality rate is 10 times higher than those of other high-risk road vehicles like heavy trucks. Nearly 13 percent of first responder deaths are actually attributed to traffic events over other dangerous situations, according to a report by the Transportation Safety Advance-
ment Group.
If the newest test area, an operation in the 
Phoenix area, runs successfully , then “it’s time 
for technology transfer,” according to Head.
The technology will be adapted to freeway 
on- and off-ramps and school and city buses.
“And then it’s on to the next problem,” 
Head said.
Jazmine Woodberry is a student at the Univer-
sity of Arizona.
Arizona car radio research could prevent accidents, deathsUWire
Jazmine Woodberry
UWire8, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
The applicants went through a brief photo shoot
UF students interested in ap-
pearing in the issue were invited 
to appear at the Hilton University 
of Florida Conference Center. 
The university had no affilia-
tion with the endeavor. 
The hopefuls went through 
an abbreviated photo shoot and 
filled out a brief questionnaire to see if they met the magazine’s criteria. 
“A girl that’s smart, sexy and 
confident is the total package,” said Stephanie Ortiz, a photogra-pher and producer. “And I think here in Florida you have the total 
package for sure.”
While most applicants were 
forced to wait before learning their selection fate, sophomore 
Gabrielle Rushing was one of the select few quickly ushered to the front of the line. 
Ortiz said Rushing came in 
with the right attitude and per -
sonality, and the Playboy editors almost instantly approved her se-
lection. 
“It was really 
exciting, actually, more than nervous,” 
Rushing said. “Once you over -
come the barrier of actually get-
ting there, it’s a rush.”
Although Rushing had never 
modeled before, she said the 
Playboy crew made her comfort-
able with the whole process and 
turned casting into a breeze. 
Playboy was so taken with her that she and another early selec-tion left Gainesville on Thurs-day for a photo shoot at Ginnie Springs that is said to feature a live gator. 
Although the location of the 
casting was originally kept a se-cret to eliminate fanfare, Rushing wasn’t at all shy about discussing 
the process. 
She shared the excitement of 
her selection with friends, sisters, 
her mom and even her dad, albeit through relay. 
“I just called [my sisters] on 
the phone on the way here, and they were really excited. I told them to tell my dad,” Rushing 
said. “He is usually supportive of 
what I do. … I think, after the ini-tial shock, he’ll know it’s okay.”PLAYBOY , from page 1
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Gabrielle Rushing’s shoes and cosmetics lie scattered on the floor of a 
Hilton hotel room while she’s prepped for her Playboy photo shoot.
Most services for federal student aid will still be in operation
then-Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich’s 
unwillingness to compromise as a key reason behind the GOP’s  sluggish showing in the last shutdown.
“He thought if he held to the principles of 
the Contract with America people would back him,” said Bowen in reference to the series of proposals brought forth by Republicans in the mid-1990s. “But that was not the case.” 
That does not necessarily mean, Bowen 
said, Democrats will come out on top this time around. Unlike in 1995, when Clinton rejected two Republican budgets, Democrats  failed to pass a budget in 2010, which means they will 
be more open to culpability this time around, 
Bowen said.  
In addition, Republicans, he said, have a 
Speaker of the House, John Boehner, who is more humble and willing to compromise than Gingrich was during his tenure as Speaker. 
In a interview last month, Congressman 
Cliff Stearns, who represents Florida’s 6th Congressional District, expressed similar sen-
timents, noting how Boehner is viewed in 
more favorable terms by the American public than Gingrich was. 
Stearns also said if a shutdown does take 
place, Republicans would not suffer the po-litical setbacks they did in the mid-1990s as America’s financial situation is now in a much graver state.
If the shutdown does happen, Matheny ex-
pects it to be short-lived. 
“Sooner or later, the temporizing will 
cease,” he said.
Who’s more to blame in this episode is up 
for interpretation.
Damien Filer, a political consultant and UF adjunct lecturer, said Republicans are using the budgetary process to “ram through a so-cial agenda,” which includes hot-button topics such as climate change and abortion.
He believes Republicans should save the 
political stunting for issues much less vital 
than the federal budget. “Republican leadership in the House is 
playing politics with people’s lives,” he said. 
Ryan Garcia, the newly appointed chair -
man of UF College Republicans, said the 
group supports the GOP’s unflinching stance on the issue. 
In an email interview, he specifically praised Boehner, Republican House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Congressman Paul Ryan “for sticking to their guns and not cav-
ing in to more government spending,”
Stacy Eichner, president of UF College 
Democrats, said Tea Party members appear 
to be hoping for a shutdown, and Republi-cans are unwilling to compromise and focus on creating legislation addressing jobs and the economy.
She said representatives from both par -
ties must work to prevent a shutdown, which 
would hurt the already struggling U.S. econ-
omy. 
Regardless of who emerges victorious from 
the political deadlock, bitter partisanship, ex-
perts say, will continue to plague the Ameri-can political system.
“I think both sides will continue to blame 
each other,” Bowen said.
SHUTDOWN , from page 1
AP Photo
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada, right, accompanied by House Speaker John 
Boehner of Ohio, talks to reporters outside the White House in Washington on Thursday after their meeting with President Obama regarding the possible government shutdown.
NewsLocalHalted services: National parks, 
Smithsonian Institution, IRS tax refunds, Permit approvals, Military paychecks, various government websites
Continuing services: FAA air 
traffic control, FEMA disaster operations, Social Security checks, National Weather Service, U.S. Postal Service, Custom and Border Protection, Military opera-tion in Middle East, Current NASA satellite missions, Most services for federal student aid, FBIORANGE & BLUE PREVIEW
What’s Old Is New Again
Florida coach Will Muschamp had his first chance 
to work with the Gators this spring, introducing a vastly different offensive scheme under coordina-tor Charlie Weis and overseeing a multi-formation defensive system with coordinator Dan Quinn. 
UF’s players seem to have instantly taken to their 
new coaching staff, and they have spent most of the spring learning the new schemes. Though they often struggled to convey exactly how things will be different than a season ago under Urban Meyer, expect to see a different look from the Gators this year.
A Sneak Peek
With practices closed, Saturday will be the first and only opportunity for fans to catch a glimpse of the Gators until fall. Muschamp said he decided to lock down practices in order to minimize distrac-tions and help his team focus on learning the new 
system and terminology, something they have had 
to do from the ground up in a limited amount of time this spring. Don’t expect to see anything particularly flashy on either side of the ball Saturday, as Muschamp said the Gators will treat the Orange and Blue Debut like any other intrasquad scrimmage.Feels Like The First Time
Two players on the Gators’ offense finished last season in need of a fresh start, and John Brantley and Chris Rainey have received the clean slate they desired this spring. By all accounts, Brantley is a natural fit in Weis’ 
scheme and hopes to flourish in a pro-style of-
fense after struggling mightily in the spread last year. Rainey, meanwhile, had a rough year on and off the field in 2010, but Muschamp said the red-shirt senior is enjoying a “phenomenal” spring run-ning out of the I-formation.
Buck Wild
The Gators have often spoken about their de-fense’s newfound versatility, and nobody embod-ies that characteristic better than Ronald Powell. The sophomore will play the new “Buck” lineback-er position, freeing up the athletic freak to put 
his hand down at defensive end, stand up at line-
backer and create a number of matchup issues as Florida vacillates between the 4-3 and 3-4.
Injury Bug Bites Backfield, O-Line
Don’t expect to see much depth at running back or any of the offensive line spots Saturday, as the usual array of spring practice injuries has decimat-ed the Gators’ depth chart. Rainey is the only available scholarship running 
back, with Jeff Demps on the track and field team 
and Mike Gillislee (stress fracture in his foot), Mike Blakely (arthroscopic shoulder surgery) and Mack Brown (broken fibula) all dinged up. Florida’s already-thin offensive line took a few more hits this spring with the loss or limitation of Matt Patchan (wrist), James Wilson (knee), David Young (knee), Nick Alajajian (torn meniscus) and Xavier Nixon (sprained ankle). 
Moving Around
Muschamp and his coordinators have sought to create depth and versatility by cross-training play-ers at different positions, but a few Gators have made more permanent changes this spring.Jordan Reed is back at tight end after splitting time 
at quarterback last season, and Gerald Christian, 
who has played tight end and linebacker at UF, is now lining up on both sides of the ball. On the offensive line, Chaz Green is playing both tackle spots, Ian Silberman moved from tackle to guard, and Jonotthan Harrison appears to be on track to be the team’s starting center this fall. In the secondary, UF is seeking to make up for its abundance of cornerbacks by testing out Jaylen 
Watkins and Cody Riggs at safety, where UF has a 
severe lack of depth.FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011n  SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION, ALLIGATOR, 3 2, ALLIGATOR, SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION n FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
A GUIDE TO THE 2011  ORANGE AND BLUE DEBUT
SPRING STORYLINES
 POSITION 
BATTLES
Second cornerback:  This one 
is likely going to come down to two 
players who held down the fort at the position last season — Jeremy Brown and Moses Jenkins. On Tuesday, coach 
Will Muschamp named Brown the early 
frontrunner and said Jenkins has been inconsistent in spring practices. Both players could be on the field at the same time Saturday, as Janoris Jenkins is still recovering from offseason shoulder sur-gery.
Running back:  It’s hard to judge 
this position right now because Chris Rainey is the only one practicing. Running backs Mike Gillislee, Mack Brown and Mike Blakely are injured, 
and Jeff Demps is with the UF track 
and field team. However, Rainey hasn’t wasted any time impressing his coaches and teammates, and Muschamp said the speedster has had a “phenomenal spring.” It will be interesting to see if Demps, who has been involved in team meetings and walkthroughs, can take over as the team’s primary back when 
he returns.
Center:  With both of the Pounceys 
gone, the Gators are looking for a re-
placement. Junior Sam Robey was listed as UF’s starting center on the preliminary depth chart released before spring practice began, but sophomore Jonotthan Harrison has since taken over. The former guard made the switch 
to center this spring, and he hasn’t relin-
quished the spot yet.
Free safety:  This battle hasn’t re-
ceived the kind of attention the others have, but it’s still an important one. Junior Josh Evans and sophomore Josh Shaw are the top two candidates for the 
position, and both are enjoying solid 
springs, according to Muschamp.Saturday could be instrumental in clear-ing up next year’s starting free safety.QB Jeff Driskel, Fr.:  UF’s most 
notable newcomer is Driskel, a four-star recruit who Rivals.com rated as the nation’s top passer. Florida offensive coordinator Charlie Weis 
called him a “classic drop-back quar-terback,” but many have compared 
him to Tim Tebow because of his size 
and speed.
QB Tyler Murphy, R-Fr.:  If 
Driskel wants to see playing time 
come fall, he will need to beat out starter John Brantley, fellow fresh-man Jacoby Brissett and Murphy, 
who came to UF as a two-star pros-
pect from Wethersfield, Conn., but has wowed with his athleticism. “I really like Tyler Murphy,” Weis said at his opening press conference. “Just because people don’t know who he is doesn’t mean he’s not good.”OL Chaz Green, R-Fr.:   Another 
greenhorn who will play Saturday is redshirt freshman Chaz Green, who has worked at both left and right tackle on a depleted offensive line this spring.
DT Leon Orr, R-Fr.:  For a time, 
it looked like Orr would be joining Green on the line, but instead, the redshirt freshman will make his de-but at defensive tackle.
TE A.C. Leonard, Fr.:  Listed 
as the No. 2 tight end on the prelimi-nary depth chart, Leonard should be in line for major playing time in an offense that will use more two-tight-end sets. The freshman was the No. 5 prospect in the country at his posi-tion and a four-star recruit.
Still to come:  Four-star running 
back Mike Blakely, the No. 6 player in the nation at his position accord-ing to Rivals.com, will miss the game after having shoulder surgery earlier 
in the spring. 
Other newcomers who have missed parts of practice but could possibly see the field are redshirt freshman wide receiver Chris Dunkley, who has been suspended for parts of the spring season due to academics, and De’Ante Saunders, who strained a hamstring in practice last week.FRESH FACES
With new coaches and unfamiliar 
systems shaping the entire Florida ros-
ter, the latest group of freshmen finds itself on a more level playing field. Considering the struggles of last sea-
son’s squad, this crop of Gators may 
be expected to come in and contribute right off the bat. Florida’s spring roster features 20 new freshmen or redshirt freshmen. Here are a few to keep an eye on:
PLAYERS TO WATCH
QB John Brantley, R-Sr. — With a pro-style 
offense and the addition of NFL playcalling 
guru Charlie Weis, Brantley has no excuses. The square peg has finally found its proper 
place, and Saturday will be Brantley’s first 
chance to put his nightmarish first season in the rear-view mirror.
Buck LB Ronald Powell, So. — In a defense 
designed to create havoc, Powell’s progress 
is key. He was the nation’s best prep pros-pect in 2010, so he is athletic enough to be a Swiss Army Knife. But is the sophomore 
ready to be the defense’s focal point?
WR Quinton Dunbar, So. — Dunbar missed 
all of last season with a hamstring injury, 
but he has received praise this spring from Muschamp and fellow receivers, who said Dunbar has been the team’s best deep 
threat in practice.
SS Matt Elam, So. — Elam will be charged 
with replacing Ahmad Black, the leader of 
the defense last season. Elam recorded 22 tackles and appeared in all 13 games as a 
freshman.
 DT Sharrif Floyd, So. — Floyd is coming off 
a productive first season, and he now looks to be the anchor of Florida’s front four. If the team is successful running a 3-4, someone will need to absorb a couple offensive line-
men on each play.
TE Jordan Reed, So. — Reed has not grown 
too comfortable at a specific position in two 
years at Florida. It looks like he will now settle in at tight end, but that position has changed drastically since he played it for Meyer in 
2009 and the beginning of 2010, as he will 
assume more responsibility as a blocker.
TE/LB Gerald Christian, So. — After sitting 
out the fall as a tight end, Christian has shift-
ed to linebacker this spring. Muschamp said he is still unsure where Christian fits best.
RB Chris Rainey, R-Sr. — With every other 
running back out, expect to see a heavy dose 
of Rainey on Saturday. Muschamp has been pleased with the redshirt senior’s cutback ability while running out of the I-formation.Take pictures of the following to 
earn points.
7 pts - You with any player
7 pts - You with Albert or Alberta
7 pts - Coach Will Muschamp7 pts - OC Charlie Weis
7 pts - A fan with face paint
7 pts - A touchdown celebration
7 pts - Parking For Charity tail gate
3 pts - A football in the air3 pts - A tackled Player
3 pts - Someone not wearing any 
orange or blue
3 pts - Scoreboard when the game 
starts
3 pts - Scoreboard when the game 
ends
3 pts - Someone in a cheerleading 
outfit
2 pts - The oldest Gators fan
2 pts - The youngest Gators fan
2 pts - Bull Gator statue
2 pts - The James W. “Bill” 
Heavener Football Complex
2 pts - “The Promise” plaque2 pts - The G. Edward Evans 
Championship Club
2 pts - The Gator Booster Office
2 pts - The Courtyard of 
Champions
1 pt - Ramp to Touchdown Terrace1 pt - The 2011 football schedule 
poster1 pt - The 2006 championship 
banner
1 pt - You with the bronze statues 
of Albert and Alberta
Submit one picture from the 
list, or submit them all. The sub-mission with the most points accumulated will win a framed Tim Tebow picture courtesy of Sports Marketing. ($299 value) In the event of a tie, we will ran-domly draw from those select individuals. Pictures should be emailed to Contest@alligator.org by 11:59 pm on Sunday, April 10th.
Orange and Blue Game Photo Scavenger Hunt:
Ofﬁ  cial Rules4, ALLIGATOR, SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION   n FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
JUMPBALL
I almost feel bad for saying the annual 
spring game isn’t worth all the fanfare, but the truth needs to be told.
And the truth is, you will not see any-
thing on the field Saturday worth getting 
excited about.
Don’t let Chiang’s optimism fool you. 
He’s easily excitable. 
He’s been listening to “I’m So Hood” 
while running stadiums at The Swamp for 
four straight weeks just to release some of his nervous energy about the chance to get dressed up on a Saturday, sit in the press box and enjoy free entertainment. 
In reality, the entertainment Saturday 
will be limited to bland, vanilla football. The Gators will get a chance to show what they have learned under their new coaches — but anyone who says this is where position bat-tles are won clearly doesn’t understand that this is nothing more than a glorified scrim-mage 147 days before the season opener.
If they wanted to try to run impressive 
plays or experiment with risky formations, why do it in front of a judgmental crowd, a national audience and a pack of oppos-ing coaches watching the film? If anything, UF’s coaches will leave their playbook pages glued together for Saturday’s game more so than they would in a closed-off, for-their-eyes-only practice. 
In fact, they’re 
even letting people who do the same thing Chiang does 
for a living call a few 
plays.
Florida coach Will 
Muschamp even ad-mitted as much ear -
lier this week, saying the Orange and Blue 
Debut wouldn’t be a flashy affair.
Chiang knows a thing or two about flashy, 
as can be attested to by anyone who has ever seen the man strutting around town wear -
ing his trademark matching sweatsuits.
A lot of your favorite players will be shar -
ing Chiang’s wardrobe Saturday, as they will be sitting on the sideline with injuries. You won’t see many others for long, as the backups will eventually rule the field. A few players will appear to emerge as superstars, 
only to disappear from the radar completely 
by the time fall rolls around.
And, despite what your Chiang-like en-
thusiasm will talk your brain into thinking, you won’t actually leave The Swamp with any idea about how Florida’s team will look next year.Is the Orange and Blue Debut worthy of excitement or cynicism?
After living in their own personal bub-ble for the last four weeks, the Gators will take their talents to The Swamp 
on Saturday.
Now, I know my colleague believes this 
public scrimmage is useless, but he couldn’t be more wrong. 
Saturday presents Florida coach Will 
Muschamp with the only opportunity he has before next season’s opener to simulate a real game — you know, the feel that comes with thousands of fans watching as you toss the pigskin around one of the most daunted sta-diums in the country . 
I’m guessing Florida can’t recreate this 
atmosphere when they run around on the Sanders Football Practice Field with a limited amount of fans or media in attendance. And by limited, of course, I mean none. 
To quote the infamous hoops legend Al-
len Iverson, “I mean listen, we’re sitting here talking about practice. Not a game. Not a game. Not a game. But we’re talking about 
practice.”
Iverson actually has it right here.
Practice means little compared to Satur -
day’s scrimmage when it comes to evaluating this team in terms of the 2011 season. 
Position battles will be won and players 
will either wilt or flower in the Orange and Blue Debut.
You see, I’m not 
surprised by Adam’s ignorance in this spot. Let me tell you a little 
thing you might not 
know about Mr. Berry: He loves practicing. He is one of those guys who likes to shoot around and refuses to play a game of pickup 
basketball because he’s “not in the mood.”
That’s not cool, Adam.
Not leaving until you make 25 baskets in a 
row doesn’t equate to being a baller.
It works the same way for the Gators. 
The coaches will know a lot more about 
their team after Saturday’s scrimmage be-cause the players will finally be placed in a game-like situation. In other words, John Brantley will have to do more than throw to uncovered receivers, and Matt Elam can’t just 
run agility drills around cones.
This is the only time it can be done. For 
that, this scrimmage is vital.
Anyway, who doesn’t want an excuse to 
tailgate and watch football in the spring? The 
only answer to that question is the Grinch. And that’s exactly what Adam is.
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org
Twitter: @Chiang_Reaction
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberryClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
THE LANDINGS.
3/3 Flats
Move-In Today!
All-Inclusive & ONLY $465
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
ALL-INCLUSIVE LIVING*
3/3: From $444/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    4-20-42-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1REDUCED RENT FOR QUALIFIED 
INDIVIDUAL WILLING TO SHOW APTS. 
IN QUADPLEX. NEWLY REHABBED & 
FURNISHED 2 BDRM w/W/D. ENTAILS 
MINOR DUTIES. NORMALLY RENTS $735/
MO. CALL 727-423-9463    4-8-11-13-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.
Avail. 8/15
$900/mo. call 877-833-2865     4-13-11-10-1
4BR/4BA Countryside @ Univ Apt furn. 
Asking $380/mo. All brms avail. beg. 8/1. 
Rent inc. cable and wireless internet+util 
package for elec/water. Contact Chris at 941-
726-2204 or raginriv@ufl.edu w/ any ques   
4-14-11-11-1
Furnished 4bedroom4bath condo,W/D/
Dishwasher for 2011-2012 starting Aug16 
1/2mi from UF on bus route, 3800 SW 20th 
Ave between UF and Butler Plaza $300/mo 
++ per student 352-586-6468    4-13-11-10-
1
First month FREE. Countryside 4/4 condo w/
pool. Each bedroom has full bath and walk-
in closet. $400/mo. includes ALL utilities, 
upgrade cable, DSL, W/D & 50in. plasma 
TV. One room available: 3 UF women have 
annual leases for one year already beginning 
August 1. $200 damage deposit secures 
lease. 352.281.4588    4-12-11-8-1
$400/month. Student house across from 
law school. Large yard, furnished and unfur-nished room options, furnished living room, dining and kitchen. Pet friendly, landlord lives on site! Lots of parking room, friendly neighbors, call 954-205-8279 (Danny) for more info    4-8-5-1
Room 4 Rent
Clean, Dependable, FemaleRef/ReqCall after 5 352-281-1461   4-14-11-5-1
Take over my Fall 2011 lease at Canopy!
1/1 in a 2/2, $605/month, all inclusive. 12 month lease. Better rate than you'll get signing a new lease! Going to study abroad instead, call Marlina, 352-281-1978.   4-14-5-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
4-20-11-10-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
3bedroom Starting @ $1019
Amazing townhome with everything included! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-2801   4-20-25-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Now Including Internet !
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
4-20-11-70-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720
352.376.7041
4-20-10-70-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTEDNewly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
14, ALLIGATOR  n FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
4-20-11-55-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     4-12-11-21-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, close to campus, all appliances, W/D,hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1325 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39374-12-20-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com4-20-10-26-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
4-13-11-20-2
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2
Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-24-25
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, 
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dish-washer, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   5-12-11-26-2
WALK2UF.COM
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
4-20-24-2
2BR HOUSE 3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $850352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/Sorority 
Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1335352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2350 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
Large 4BR/2BA HOUSES 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, w/dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plen -
ty of parking! . Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1980 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
3BR/3BA House, fenced yard, close to UF, 
open floor plan/cathedral ceilings, new tile, carpet, fixtures. W/D, lawn, and pest control incl. Small pets allowed, avail Aug, $1350/month. 352-246-5958, tonyc@kinetixpt.com    4-8-11-15-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1225 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   4-20-11-21-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    4-20-11-21-2
www.Bellaproperties.net
3/2 with study. Walk to UF, hardwood floors, 
fireplace, 2 car garage, full sevice tour
335-5424
4-20-20-2
www.BellaProperties.net
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
4-20-20-2.
WALK TO UF
3 Bed 2 Bath House in upscale Golfview 
Estates near Law School & Athletic fields.
$1400 mo. Aug 1. Call (305) 788-4103    
4-20-11-19-2
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
4-20-11-20-2
Fantastic 3/2 House - Only 9 blocks to UF!! 
Large bedrooms, great neighborhood, wood 
floors, fenced back yard, off the street park-
ing, Freshly painted bright interior. Aval. now, 
1200.00 + Sec. Deposit. 909 NW 9th Ave. 
Call Chad 407-230-2423   4-12-11-10-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pristine Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, hdwd flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-1458    4-20-11-16-2
1BR/1BA, large screened-in porch, W/D 
hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $535. Sec Dep $535. 3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #3 Please call 352-371-3473    4-20-11-14-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts3  BLKS TO UF & Downtown! 840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty ofParking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UFNew Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street. 
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA  1BLK TO UFCentral H & Air, LaundryOn site. $500/Mo 1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/MoCentral H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.Carpet, No Laundry 1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/MoCarpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry1234 & 1238 SW 1st AvenueCentral H & Air, Behind Leonardos4-15-11-11-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
4-20-13-2$695 Move In Specials
3 Bed Houses walking distance to
UF & Downtown
Call 352-226-3535 or 352-505-9264
photos available at
www.RentalWorkshop.com
4-8-11-5-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    4-15-11-10-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net    4-20-11-13-2
FREAKS! Downtown studio/garage apt. 
Window A/C, space heat, off-street park-
ing. H2O/sewage incl. On bus lines near 
Hippodrome. 416 SE 2nd St. $420/mo, 1st, 
last & sec. Call 352-373-6551    4-18-10-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
1 BR unfurnished @ Gatornest 300 NW 
18th St 3 blocks from campus available from 
mid-April through July 31 pets OK $560 plus 
utilities negotiable call 850-382-1348 or 850-
474-4742       4-12-11-5-2
2BD/2BA in 4bd/4ba condo avail. LONG/
SHORT TERM FURNISHED $440 or 
UNFURNISHED $410. Incl. Light, water, 
internet. Women roommates so women pre-
ferred. Call 407 504 4319 for appt.     4-12-
11-5-2CLOSE TO UF - 4BR/2BA HOUSE
914 SW 6th Ave. Cent AC/heat. W/D hk-up. 
$1690/mo. From 8/16, for 1 year. No pets. 359-1508    4-20-11-11-2
2/1 Across from VA Hospital.
$550/mo. $300 dep. No dogs, cats ok w/ 
$100 one time pet fee. 352-634-5175    4-12-11-5-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage. Across from GHFC. 
$1000/mo. Available January. 331-6872   4-19-11-10-2
Close to UF, 2BR/1BA house, W/D, large 
fenced yard. Pets ok. Water incl. Low move-
in. Avail Aug 1st. 618 NW 14th Ave. $895/
mo. Call 561-703-8490    4-20-11-5-2
Very nice 3BR/2BA House, 2.5 miles to UF. 
Beautiful large treed lot. Hardwood floors, 
tile, vaulted ceiling in kitchen. W/D, ref, stove, 
DW. Avail Aug 1st, 2011. $950/mo. Sec dep. 
Call 727-686-1404   4-13-11-5-2
1bed/1bath in 3bed/3bath at the polos. rent 
is $410 incl. utilities, cable and internet. fur-
nished or unfurnished. available May 1st. call 
352 262 7778 or dubroca@ufl.edu   5-10-11-
10-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com     
5-12-11-11-2
FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
3BR/1BA house avail August: cent heat A/C, 
hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, 
Florida room, private fenced bkyd. $900/mo. 
352-318-5453   4-20-11-9-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
The last issue for the spring 
semester will be on April 20th!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, 
all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your 
own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 
or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-
30-3
$505 Parkside 2 Townhomes, Very close to 
UF (off sorority row), Lease runs May 1- July 
31. Bedroom has own bath & private balcony, 
1/2 bath downstairs, pay for half of elec  Call 
Ali 9416282134 or email booie12@ufl.edu    
4-8-11-5-3Hi ladies! If anyone is interested in a summer 
sublease my room at Windsor hall it is going 
to be free May to the beginning of August. 
My roommate who you will share the room 
with is really sweet and easy to live with. My 
rent is $519 a month. It is just 2 blocks from 
UF campus behind Norman Hall. It also has 
a private kitchenette and bathroom. All inclu -
sive... rent so no having to worry about any other bills. This beautiful dorm is also fully 
furnished.If you're interested, let me know!
Call Sarah @ 407-936-4292     4-8-5-3
$379/mo Lexington Crossing Apt. 1 room in
a 4BR/4BA, furnished w/ utilities.
Available May through August
Interested? Please call 813-504-4265
or email abollin26@ufl.edu    4-8-11-5-3
$420/mo Woodlands Apt 1 room in 
3BD/3BA furnished, Available May, June 
& July. Call 352-871-5363 or e-mail:wael.
alyoussof@gmail.com. Price negotiable    
4-13-4-3
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-726-2915    4-19-11-25-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412    4-8-14-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   4-20-15-4400 a month- UF female undergrad looking 
for 2 roommates for an awesome 3 bed/1 
bath house behind Norman hall! Walking dis-
tance to campus!
Email elenarthomas@ufl.edu.    4-8-3-4
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $369/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route, 
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871    
5-10-11-13-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
Absolute Auction - Industrial Zoned, 4951 
Woodlane Circle Tallahassee, FL 32303. 1 
acre w/office and shop. 3 parcels sell as 1 
unit for one price. Live event on April 28th 
at 11:00 am EDT. Info and Online Bidding 
Now: www.abalauction.com (850)510-2501 
AB2387 AU 3239    4-8-1-5
ALABAMA WATERFRONT GRAND OPENING-4/2 only-2 for 1 SALE! Buy 
$39,900 Waterfront lot, get RV lot 
ABSOLUTELY FREE! Direct Gulf access; 
Limited supply. (888)392-9944    4-8-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
16, ALLIGATOR  n FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
Only for Students ofUF!
Win an Apple iPad 2 right now!
Go to www.giftnitro.com
Win a free Apple iPad2!
4-13-11-5-10
KENTE GRADUATION STOLES FOR SALE!  
Celebrate with hand-woven kente stole/sash 
imported from Accra, Ghana.
ONLY 19.99 plus shipping.
Order online – www.afrikandesigns.com; 
email Grace at grace@afrikandesigns.com.    
4-20-11-11-10
DO YOU EARN $800.00 IN A DAY? Your 
Own Local Candy Route 25 Machines and 
Candy All for $9995.00 All Major Credit 
Cards Accepted (877)915-8222  AINB02653    
4-8-1-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock 
ready to ship. Starting at $995.00 www.
NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N    4-8-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come with one year parts and labor warranties! Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
4-20-11-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
4-8-11-70-13 
CASH PAID FOR JUNK CARS$200 & up. FREE pick-up.
352-771-6191    4-20-11-11-13
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Summer Jobs                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14$15 for a 90-minute study. To participate, you 
should have grown up in a Spanish-speaking 
country & become fluent in English when you 
came to the US for school. Contact Sabra 
Pelham at spelham@ufl.edu to sign up! 
4-11-10-14
SCOOTER/MOTORCYCLE MECHANIC
PT/FT jobs available. Experience
W/ 2 & 4-stroke motors a must!
Inquire within or call 336-1271
Collin@NS4L.com    4-20-16-14
Computer Programming Internship
Work with local small business to
Expand online presence, update &
build websites, and network. Web
Design experience required.
Collin@NS4L.com for more info.    4-20-16-
14
Hiring Now for Fall!!
Office assistant for in-home office. Avg 10-15 
hrs/week. Must have transportation, be reli-
able, honest, and a hard worker. Pay $7.25/
hr with raise in 30 days. Email info@fratmg-
mt.com and we will email you complete job 
description.    4-8-11-5-14
Seeking undergraduates or recent graduates 
with an interest in behavior analysis, and/or 
eating disorders, diet and fitness. Please 
contact Mark at 352-339-3751 or
lister@behavioralsupports.com    4-8-11-5-
14
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing gals/guys
to cover summer Truck Team shifts.
Student or recent graduate preferred.
+21 age req'd for insurance. $8.50 - $11/hr. 
Email cover letter and resume to cameron.
lansdell@1800gotjunk.com
4-8-11-4-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St    4-11-11-5-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse.
Apply from 2:30 to 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please    4-11-5-14
MOBILE WAITERS NEEDED - Gator Food 
is looking to work with new delivery drivers! FT/PT, make your own schedule, flexible shifts, Avg. $10-$14/hr. Must have own car, cell phone, be 21+. Call 888-334-9675 ext. 0, email blatendresse@d-d-i.com, or go to www.d-d-i.com    4-8-11-3-14
Video person needed by law firm to shoot & 
edit videos for posting on firm website & You Tube. Resumes to:robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.    4-15-11-7-14
OFFICE ASST-F/T. Green conscious, book 
lover, passion for writing/knowledge/ fitness. Computer fluency. Eye for Detail. Interest in MMA a plus. Min. wage to $12/hour. 626 NE 1st St, 32601. paulsrothstein@gmail.com    4-20-11-10-14
CAREGIVER POSITIONS
For Pre-Med, Pre-OT, Pre-PT and Nursing 
students. Call 352-231-0815 for more info.   4-14-6-14
NEED NANNY TO TRAVEL: all expenses paid;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk @ $12/hr;3yr old / 10 mon; bonus hr$; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    4-13-11-5-14
FT NANNY NEEDED AUG for 1yr;2 boys 10&14;$12/hr; ~ 30 hrs/wk;+ bonus hrs / $$; must be exp/prof/ref/Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    4-13-11-5-14●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
4-20-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Love writing? Looking for writers for origi-
nal articles & product descriptions for 
multiple IT websites. Earn up to $150-$300/
wk from your location. Must have excellent 
grammar & writing skills. 626-602-5254
4-12-11-20-14
Remedy Staffing now offers Free Video 
Resumes. Add to you Facebook profile, 
Linkedin and many other social sites.
Call 672.6080 x-3 or email
stephenw@remedystaff.com to schedule.
4-12-11-20-4
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-
14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs andLPNs to join our team. Experience inAssisted Living is preferred. Part timeand PRN available. Competitive salaryand a great working environment.For more information or to apply, please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full time Life Coach positions available in both Independent and Assisted Living. Come and be a part of our growing team! These positions play a support role in planning, or-ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-ment program that promotes total health and wellness of each resident living here at The Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-ence conducting group programs with strong interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-sion for working with older adults is a must. In addition to experience with social programs, individuals with a theology background and/or fitness experience are encouraged to apply. please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     5-17-11-27-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
Camp CounselorsPart time and full time positions open im-mediately & over the summer. Must be 18 or older and good with children. Apply with resume online at www.GirlsPlace.net    4-8-11-10-14
FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 17
Part time position at horse farm. Experience 
required. Afternoons and weekends. Duties 
includes feeding horses and cleaning stalls. 
Please email to rachel@starquarry.com    
4-11-11-3-14
PT Dog handler needed for doggie daycare. 
Requires handling groups of rowdy dogs, 
cleaning, and exceptional customer service. 
Experience working with animals preferred. 
Apply in person 3749 SW 42nd Ave., suite 8
(352) 376-9544     4-13-11-4-14
TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS
We are a traditional summer camp in West 
Virginia. We are looking for both male and 
female counselors. Visit www.trcamps.com 
or call 410-833-4080 for more information.  
5-24-11-14-14
CALL NOW! Top 5% Pay! Excellent Benefits. 
300 New T660's. Need CDL-A & 3 mos re-
cent OTR. (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.
com    4-8-1-14
Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Susan ext. 227 
Pam ext. 238 SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC    
4-8-1-14Driver- Plenty of miles. Recession proof 
freight. $1000 Sign-on for experienced CO's 
and incentives for O/O's. Driver Academy 
Refresher Course available. Recruit@ffex.
net. (855) 289-2217.    4-8-1-14
CDL TRAINING OPPORTUNITY: Truck 
driver jobs are back for graduates of National 
Truck Driver School. No experience neces-
sary for our Graduates. (800)488-7364, 
Orange Park, FL    4-8-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
ARC Lifeguard Training
Starts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    
4-20-11-12-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? 
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low 
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! 
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.
com    4-8-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, 
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com   4-8-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA approved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769.   4-8-1-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
CPR training is back!
Need CPR/AED or 1st Aid?
Meets internship requirements
FloridaHeartsaver.org
(352)575-0119                        4-8-20-16
Considering Adoption?
Childless married couple seeks to adopt. 
Schoolteacher mom & devoted dad. Financial 
security. Expenses paid. Call 732-297-5882. 
FL Bar #0150789    4-8-11-5-16
wanting to lose weight? 5.lbs in 5 days with 
100% 30 day money back guarantee. Please call (352)682-6928 for more info!    4-12-4-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.com
then call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
PRAYER WORKS. I would like to publicly express my gratitude to Jesus Christ, Lord and Savior, Divine Mercy, for many favors and blessings. I would also like to thank the following holy men and women for their inter-cession: Mary, the Blessed Mother of God, Saints Joseph, Michael, Raphael, Anthony of Padua, Therese of Lisieux, Jude Thaddeus, Teresa of Avila, James the Greater, Padre Pio and Thomas Aquinas. -L.A. Limpert    4-8-2-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love Mature artist looking for a woman to share 
my spacious 2-story 4BR apt on NW side 
of town. I will pay all the bills in exchange 
for the master BR/BA w/walk-in closet, help 
around the house, some cooking & grocery 
shopping. Apt complex is nice w/2 pools & 
tennis courts. I don't drive but you will need 
a car which I will pay for. Object comfortable 
& fun living. Call Bob 352-226-8449     4-12-
5-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get Your Ad Noticed Here and in Over 100 
Papers throughout Florida for One Low Rate. 
Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to 
work for You! (866)742-1373
www.florida-classifieds.com.    4-8-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
SAVE MONEY AT GAINESVILLE
RESTAURANTS & BARS!
Great, money saving deals sent straight to
your cell phone. Text Gdeals to 96362 to
start cashing in on savings TODAY!
4-8-11-5-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.    4-11-11-2-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spring is in the air and so are cat phero -
mones. We need to hurry and spay as many cats as possible before kitten season kicks into high gear! Bring community cats from Alachua County in for FREE spay/neuter on Sunday, April 17th. Operation Catnip wants to spay 3,000 cats in 2011, but we can't do it without you. If you can't make it to the Sunday Spay Day, we can schedule you during the week at a partner clinic for FREE. Don't wait-- make a reservation now! ocgainesville@gmail.com 352.380.0940Drop traps available for loan...4-15-13-24
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42x
Any info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
Sports
FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n THE ANNUAL ORANGE AND BLUE DEBUT 
WILL TAKE PLACE SATURDAY AT NOON.
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
tjett@alligator.org
 
Gators fans were expecting a lethal vertical passing 
attack last year, and John Brantley didn’t curb expecta-
tions when he talked about what he could do with a 
football.
“With the adrenaline pumping, I might be able to 
throw it through the stadium,” he said days before Flor -
ida’s season opener last September.
If that prediction came true, it would have been 
Brantley’s most noteworthy effort of the year. Instead, the quarterback settled on a mix of check-downs, mis-
reads and turnovers as the offense stalled before it 
could even start.
Florida ranked 88th nationally with 184.3 pass-
ing yards per game, the team’s worst air attack since 1989 — the year before Steve Spurrier took over. The unit returns Brantley and 10 of its top 11 pass-catchers 
from last season, and the group expects to take a step 
forward this fall, thanks in large part to the addition of offensive coordinator Charlie Weis.
Fans will get a chance to measure how far the pass-
ing attack has come since last fall when the Gators take 
the field for the Orange and Blue Debut in Ben Hill Grif-
fin Stadium on Saturday at noon.
Although Weis has only been in Gainesville since 
January, he is not afraid to poke fun at Brantley’s per -
formance last season, when the quarterback’s 116.4 ef-
ficiency rating ranked 97th nationally.
“You came to run the spread; that made a lot sense,” 
Weis said sarcastically . 
If that “Jersey swipe” stung, it was nothing com-
FOOTBALL TICKET INFO UF TRACK AND FIELD NEWS ONLINE POLL QUESTION
n Stay tuned to alligatorSports.org all 
weekend for coverage of the Orange 
and Blue Debut. We’ll be tweeting live from The Swamp throughout the game at twitter.com/alligatorSports. n Florida freshman Brittany Harrell 
is in eighth place in the women’s heptathlon after Day 2 of the 84th Clyde Littlefield Texas Relays at Myers Stadium in Austin, Texas.n Tickets for Florida’s spring game went on 
sale Thursday afternoon, and the University Athletic Association is encouraging fans to purchase theirs in advance of the game to avoid long lines at the ticket window Saturday.Today’s question: Do you think the Orange and Blue Debut is worth getting excited over, or is it not worth the hype?Special to the Alligator / UF Communications
Florida redshirt senior quarterback John Brantley struggled through a disappointing 2010 season despite the high expecta-tions placed on UF’s passing game. He will look to turn things around under offensive coordinator Charlie Weis this year.
After subpar 2010, hope springs anew for Brantley
SEE FOOTBALL, p AGE 20
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
Fresh off a stunning loss to UCF on 
Tuesday, the Gators will look to regroup 
in an environment mostly foreign to their team this season.
After playing 23 of its first 30 games at 
home, No. 4 Florida (24-6, 7-2 Southeast-ern Conference) embarks on a treacherous eight-game road trip, starting tonight at 7:30 against Mississippi State in Starkville.
UF has played just four true road games 
all year, but the Gators are 4-0 in such con-tests including a series sweep over LSU — their only three games thus far outside the 
state of Florida.
The Gators were .500 (14-14) on the road in 2010, but sophomore catcher Mike Zu-
nino said the team is confident it can im-prove its road play using concentration and patience. 
“We have to just take it one game at a 
time,” he said. “Our pitching staff is go-
ing to go out and execute whether we’re home or away. As hitters, we just have to stay focused and tune everything out. … The rest will take care of itself.”
Mississippi State is 17-4 this year at 
home and has a passionate fan base, aver -
aging more fans per game (5,758) than UF’s McKethan Stadium holds (5,500). The Bull-dogs (20-9, 4-5 SEC) are expecting especial-UF hits road to face MSU
By STEpHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
When Florida players hit the field 
the last two weekends, Kelsey Brud-
er noticed they seemed to be playing “without the wind in their sails.”
After suffering back-to-back 
sweeps, the senior left fielder called a two-hour, players-only meeting Tuesday night to rectify the Gators’ recent struggles.
“We really figured out there’s not 
much of a problem,” Bruder said. “We still have the same chemistry. We’re still the same talented players. We just need to pick up the pieces and put them back together right now.”
Maintaining confidence has been a 
challenge during the recent slide, but 
after the players’ meeting, Florida is 
regaining its swag-ger.
Following a six-
game losing streak, No. 10 Florida (30-
7, 7-6 Southeastern Conference) will try to right the ship 
as it hosts Arkansas 
(10-29, 1-15 SEC) for a three-game se-
ries, which begins today at 5 p.m. in 
Pressly Stadium.
Even though Florida’s seniors Florida remaining positive 
after consecutive sweeps
SEE SOFTBALL, p AGE 20SEE BASEBALL, p AGE 20UF SOFTBALL
Bruder
Baseballn THE BLUE JAYS BEAT THE 
GATORS 16-8 IN LAST YEAR’S CONFERENCE OPENER.
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
With a top-10 clash against Northwest-
ern looming just a week away , the Gators 
are using the motivation of a grudge match 
and another team’s trash talk to stay focused 
against Johns Hopkins this weekend.
Last season, the Blue Jays became the 
first conference foe to beat the Gators with a commanding 16-8 victory in Baltimore. Later in the year, at the American Lacrosse 
Conference Tournament, Florida returned 
the favor with a 14-3 win of its own.
“We want revenge from that first game 
last year,” sophomore Colby Rhea said. 
“But we’re also not going to let our guard 
down because it’s a new year. I think we’re all very pumped because they’ve said a lot 
of mean things about us.”
On Saturday at 1 p.m. in Dizney Stadi-
um, No. 6 Florida (11-1, 2-0 ALC) will get its chance to one-up Johns Hopkins (7-4, 0-1 
ALC) and go for a conference-leading third win. 
Through eight weeks of the season, UF 
and No. 2 Northwestern remain the only unbeaten ALC teams in conference play.
“It’s been awesome. I always knew we 
could do it,” Rhea said. “But on any day, any team can win, so we need to keep that 
in mind. But I think we can win it all this 
year.”
UF coach Amanda O’Leary said she has 
marveled at the maturity her sophomore-laden team has displayed this season.
“This team, as I’ve said before, has a dif-
ferent mind set,” O’Leary said. “They’re coming out, each and every game, I think 
more enthused, more challenged, and 
they’re sort of seeing the light at the end of the tunnel that they have the potential to re-
ally go far.”
With a win against then-No. 4 Pennsyl-
vania and one-goal losses to teams ranked in the top 15, the Blue Jays are clearly an up-
set-minded team able to slow ranked oppo-nents with their 11th-best scoring defense. 
Just don’t expect them to wow the Gators 
offensively . 
Behind a nation-leading 56 goals by Kitty 
Cullen and seven straight scoring days from Caroline Chesterman, Florida has scored 51 more goals than Johns Hopkins this season.
Although the Gators might be without 
one of their starting midfielders as sopho-more Brittany Dashiell recovers from a con-
cussion, Chesterman is confident the team can fill in for its third-leading scorer and top 
draw-control specialist.
“It’s not the first time someone else has 
been out,” Chesterman said. “People re-sponded to that, too. I think it really shows 
the character of our team.”FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore Colby Rhea (right) said the Gators are out for revenge against 
Johns Hopkins after losing to the Blue Jays 16-8 in the regular season last year.
Florida seeks revenge vs. Johns Hopkins
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
With the end of the regular sea-
son quickly approaching, the Florida 
women’s tennis team has had no trou-ble against top-ranked opponents.
Despite a 19-1 overall record and a 
perfect 8-0 mark in Southeastern Con-ference play, coach Roland Thornqvist said the Gators haven’t actually ac-complished anything yet.
That can all change this weekend 
when No. 2 Florida hosts to two unde-feated conference foes: No. 6 Georgia (14-1, 8-0 SEC) today at 5 p.m. and No. 14 Tennessee (15-4, 7-0 SEC) on Sun-
day at 1 p.m.
“If you don’t enjoy a week like 
this, you have no 
business being at Florida,” Thornqvist said. “We’ve got two 
undefeated teams in the league coming in here, and typically, 
traditionally they’re 
the two toughest matches for us each 
year.”
If the Gators can come away with 
wins in both matches this weekend, they will be in prime position to clinch the regular-season SEC title.
Adding to the importance of to-
day’s match is Florida’s 99-game reg-ular-season home win streak.
To continue their streak, Thorn-
qvist said his young players will have to be as tough as they have been all year.
“They come to college and they’re 
amazed at what players are willing to do to win,” Thornqvist said. “Here, 
you’re not just playing for yourself, 
you’re playing for Florida, for your teammates.”UF set for 
unbeaten 
SEC foes
Thornqvist
20, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida catcher Mike Zunino, UF’s leader in multi-RBI games, said the Gators 
won’t worry about their harsh surroundings this weekend at Mississippi State.
Fontana travels with UF to Starkville, 
remains day-to-day after head injury
ly large crowds this weekend as their football 
team holds its spring scrimmage Saturday af-ternoon. 
Zunino, Florida’s leader in runs scored and 
multi-RBI games, said the Gators approach hos-
tile environments like Dudy Noble Field just as 
if they were playing in their own stadium. 
He said the team eliminates distractions by 
using consistent routines for every game, home or away. 
“We have fun with it,” first baseman Aus-
tin Maddox said. “I don’t think our team re-ally struggles on the road. We’ll go to State this weekend and do well.” 
FONTANA UPDATE: Florida shortstop Nolan Fon-
tana is listed as day-to-day and made the trip 
to Starkville, according to a UF spokesman. Fontana, who has started every game this 
season, was injured in the seventh inning of Tuesday’s loss while chasing a shallow fly ball into left field. UF’s leadoff hitter drilled his head on the grass while attempting to make 
the catch.   
Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan was not 
made available for comment on Fontana’s sta-
tus for the upcoming series.  
ETC: Right-hander Hudson Randall (5-0, 0.54 
ERA) will toe the rubber tonight for UF. … The 
Gators are 19-2 when their weekend starters — Randall, Brian Johnson and Karsten Whitson — 
take the mound to begin the game. In Florida’s 
only SEC road series of the year, the trio tossed 16.2 innings and allowed four earned runs in the sweep of LSU. …. UF leads the conference in batting average (.311) but also in grounding into double plays (26).BASEBALL , from page 18
pared to the venom Florida fans spewed 
while watching the offense devolve into little 
more than a series of passes in the flats. 
The Gators were booed on Oct. 9 during a 
loss to LSU in The Swamp, and the hometown 
reception only grew more sour the following week during a 10-7 loss to Mississippi State.
The passing game was so ineffective that it 
was all but ignored toward the end of the sea-son as the offense shifted to an unprecedented 
three-quarterback system. At times, Brantley 
became an afterthought, his role reduced to only third-and-long situations.
But if Weis hopes to energize the offense 
this fall, he will need Brantley to put last year behind him. Freshmen Jeff Driskel and Jacoby 
Brissett, who have a combined three months of college football experience, are the only 
signal-callers behind Brantley.
As far as exactly what Weis has done to 
improve the offense, fans will have to wait 
until Saturday . 
Receivers are running deeper routes, pre-
snap motions are different and terminology has changed. But, minor tweaks aside, receiv-
er Frankie Hammond Jr. and other offensive 
players said the plays have not changed. 
Brantley, on the other hand, says adjusting 
to the offense has been complicated.
“This is a new challenge for me,” he said. 
“Everything is so new right now. I’m think-
ing a lot, and I’m just trying to concentrate on 
what I have to do out there.”
He isn’t worried about chucking the ball 
out of the stadium anymore, although fans certainly would not mind watching someone 
finally air it out.QB still adjusting to Weis’ offense
FOOTBALL , from page 18Gators will rely on Rogers in circle
haven’t experienced a slump like 
this before, the recent struggles don’t overshadow the team’s past success. 
“We have a losing-streak record, 
but we also hold multiple positive records,” Bruder said. “When you’re 
on a losing streak, a lot of people 
point fingers, but that’s not what we’re about. We’re remaining true to 
ourselves and sticking together.” 
Still without senior Stephanie Bro-
mbacher, the Gators will continue to 
rely on freshman Hannah Rogers this weekend.
The young righty started her ca-
reer 16-1 but has taken the loss in four straight games.
UF coach Tim Walton said the big-
gest key for Rogers is to rely on her 
defense and not try to do too much. 
“She’s been the center of attention as the pitcher her whole career,” he 
said. “The better she pitches, the bet-
ter we’ll play.” 
Getting off to a quick start will be 
key for the Gators, as the Razorbacks’ 
pitching staff goes four deep. 
While they haven’t put up great 
numbers in the win column, sopho-
more Hope McLemore and senior 
Kim Jones are effective 
strikeout pitchers. They 
have fanned 144 batters 
in 159.1 innings, which could be a problem for a Gators lineup that has 
struck out 218 times this year. 
Although the team hasn’t played 
to the best of its abilities recently, this weekend is a chance for UF to fight through adversity. 
“You have to learn to deal with 
failure,” Walton said. “Most people’s true character is defined in moments of crisis.”SOFTBALL , from page 18
Softball