We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 20 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.org‘Biggest Loser’ competitor, Olympic gold medalist sells 1.5 lb. burger
AFTON, Wyo. — A former Olympic 
wrestler is serving a 1.5-pound hamburger 
at his Wyoming restaurant while compet-ing on TV to be “The Biggest Loser.”
The mighty Rulon Burger at Rulon 
Gardner’s Burger Barn restaurant in Afton is so big, it’s molded in a pizza tin. It comes on a bun with all the toppings.
Gardner won gold at the 2000 Olym-
pics by beating a Russian who hadn’t lost in 13 years. Gardner’s challenge to all comers now: 
Finish the burger plus a basket of fries and a 44-ounce drink in 20 minutes.
The Casper Star-Tribune reports Gard-
ner’s best is 8 minutes, 23 seconds.
Gardner is competing to lose weight on 
the NBC show, “The Biggest Loser.” 
He weighed in at 474 pounds, more 
than 200 pounds heavier than when he won gold.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSn  Florida senior 
forward Chandler 
Parsons (right) iced 
the Gators’ win 
against Vanderbilt 
on Tuesday night 
in the O’Connell 
Center with two 
late free throws in 
overtime. 
See Story, Page 13.Rain
73/49FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 13
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Equal Standing
Gainesville City Commission candidates, from left to right, Thomas Hawkins, Lauren Poe and 
Susan Bottcher, listen to Mallory Wells, the Equality Florida public policy director, as she speaks about a proactive campaign for the LGBT community Tuesday night at Lux, a downtown bar.
n SHE IS A DIRECTOR IN THE 
UF INTERNATIONAL CENTER.
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
When Sandra Russo left her  
hotel in Egypt in the early hours of 
Jan. 26 for her flight, she couldn’t help but hear the sounds of laugh-ter and upbeat music coming 
across the way. They were the 
sounds of an Egyptian  engage-ment party, the kind that start a little before midnight and keep rolling all through the night. Typi-cal Egypt, she thought.
Unbeknownst to those dancing 
and to the American, Egypt was erupting. 
Having visited the country a 
handful of times, Russo, the direc-tor of program development and federal relations for the UF Inter -
national Center, knew that Egypt didn’t specialize in standard of living. With poverty rampant, unemployment soaring among youth and a government seeming-
ly deaf to cries of reform, it was 
only a matter of time, she thought, before it all came tumbling down.
“It was like a big tea kettle,” 
said Russo. “It just blew.” 
But what happened on Jan. 25 
took her completely by surprise. 
“I guess I just wasn’t that sav-
vy,” she said. 
Russo did have suspicions that 
not all was well. The atmosphere 
in Middle Eastern countries had 
grown more edgy following the events in Tunisia. In the days leading up to the protests, Egyp-tian newspapers and televisions 
told of citi-zens walking up to large public places 
with a can of 
gasoline ready to turn their bod-
ies into politically driven human barbecues. 
The Egyptians she knew were 
not the ones that she was seeing on the televisions at the Amsterdam airport. The Egyptians she knew were kind, polite and always will-
ing to help an American. The only 
time she said she was ever afraid for her safety was crossing the Faculty member in 
Egypt as riots erupt
NewsInternational
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
The investigation of the death of a 
UF student remains open and ongoing, 
according to the Alachua County Sher -
iff’s Office. 
Firefighters found the body of Saleha 
Huuda, 21, Dec. 30 after extinguishing a small brushfire off County Road 225, a half-mile north of Gainesville Raceway. 
Though no report has come back 
from the medical examiner, the death is expected to be ruled a homicide. 
Investigators finished examining 
Huuda’s car, which was found about 15 miles away from where she was found. 
However, no suspects have been named in the case, and the cause of 
death is still undetermined. 
“A lot of times, toxicology takes up 
to six months,” sheriff’s office spokes-
man Art Forgey said. ”So, I woudn’t say this is anything unusual at all.”
Huuda was a member of the UF 
Competitive Cheerleading squad, along with other campus dance groups. 
Forgey said investigators are work-
ing to establish a timeline and suspects in the case. No suspect in killingALACHUA COUNTY COMMISSION
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
The Alachua County Commission de-
cided Tuesday to hire consultants to defend 
it when the Alachua County Sheriff Office’s roughly $500,000 budget cut appeal goes to Tallahassee. 
The commission isn’t sure when the ap-
peal will go to court, but County Attorney Dave Wagner cautioned that it could be soon and without much warning.
County Manager Randall Reid said it 
would be a good idea for a few commis-sioners to go to Tallahassee, even if it’s just for show.
Commissioner Mike Byerly said he 
didn’t understand why commissioners would need to go to Tallahassee when their staff are handling the case. 
Wagner said that while county staff 
could handle the lawsuit, it helps to have figureheads in a highly political setting.
“I don’t expect it to be rational, to be 
honest with you,” Wagner replied. “We’re hesitant to go up there without one of you present to at least give the impression that 
elected officials care about this issue.”
The commission also decided to meet 
with a prison company, Corrections Corporation 
of America, to hear as many options as possible before the commission decides how to run the jail for the next decade. 
Most of the Commis-
sion thought the sheriff should stay in charge of 
the jail but that the commission would take control as a second choice. 
A last resort would be handing over the 
jail to a private company, an option none of the commissioners liked.County ready for appeal
Reid
SEE EGYPT, PAGE 8
“A lot of times, toxicology takes 
up to six months.”
Art Forgey 
sheriff’s office spokesmanNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 20 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Islam Awareness Fair 
Today, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.Reitz Union ColonnadeCalligraphy, famous Muslims 
posters, hopscotch in Arabic 
and jump rope with a Muslim are some activities planned. Come experience the various Muslim cultures around the world. The Islam fair will also feature cultural organizations from the UF campus. Please visit islamoncampus.com for 
more information. The event 
is free.
Dynamo General Body Meeting
Today, 6 p.m.Anderson Room 34The theme this week will be democratic transition in Arab countries. The group will be 
discussing the revolution in 
Tunisia, the protests in Yemen and the protests taking place in Egypt. New members are encouraged to attend and par -
ticipate.
Guest Speaker: Transplant 
Director
Today, 7:15 p.m.
Matherly Room 16Dr. Edward D. Staples is an associate professor of thoracic and cardiovascular surgery at the UF College of Medicine and the heart and lung trans-Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. 
Please model your submissions 
after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In Tuesday’s Alligator, an ar -
ticle incorrectly identified Gainesville City Commissioner 
Lauren Poe as holding the 
at-large seat. Commissioner Thomas Hawkins holds the at-large seat.plant surgical director at 
Shands. He recently per -
formed Shands’ 500th lung 
transplant. Everyone is invit-ed to this week’s Get Carded meeting to hear him speak about his experiences. 
Golden Key meeting 
Today, 6:45 p.m.
Turlington Room L005 
There will be a guest speaker from the Civic Media Center. After the meeting at 8 p.m., there is a fundraising social at TCBY on 34th Street.
Dance Marathon Registration
Through Thursday
Help make miracles hap-
pen by registering to dance for Dance Marathon 2011. Dancers do not need to be registered through or be part of an organization to partici-pate in this event. Visit the Dance Marathon website at floridadm.org to register for 
the event or make a dona-
tion.
THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
65/42RAIN
65/38RAIN
71/56RAIN
59/49RAIN
73/49
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
After a long Tuesday filled with meetings, 
handshakes and city statutes, Craig Lowe de-
cided to stop off for a drink after work. 
But for the mayor, his off-the-clock cocktail 
was more than an occasion to unfasten his tie 
and rub elbows with colleagues and friends 
in a subdued environment not confined to the formal customs of City Hall. It was an op-portunity to relish in one of the causes that, he believes, is integral to whether his administra-tion is viewed as successful: equality for all citizens. 
Equality Florida, an organization devoted 
to promoting rights for gays, lesbians, bisexu-als and transgenders, celebrated opening a Gainesville office at Lux bar on Tuesday.
Mallory Wells, the public policy director 
for Equality Florida, said the opening of an office in Gainesville was years in the making. The group had previously led efforts to defeat Gainesville Charter Amendment 1, a local or -
dinance presented in 2009 that would have lifted local anti-discrimination policies toward the LGBTQ community . Equality Florida also campaigned and raised funds for Lowe dur -
ing his run for mayor last year. 
“I want Gainesville to go to Tallahassee 
and tell legislators that their town is an inclu-sive community ,” Wells said. 
Among those in attendance were city com-
missioners Lauren Poe and Thomas Hawkins along with city commission candidate Susan Bottcher, who all received endorsements in their respective commission races. 
Bottcher said such an organization is neces-
sary to resist what she described as a conserva-tive and Tea Party-led effort to “turn the clock back.”
“I think that’s the antithesis of what we 
want to do in this city in this country in the 21st century ,” she said. “All I know is that as long as there are citizens trying to restrict rights for others, I will be fighting for the rights of all citizens.” 
Although he acknowledged that issues of 
equality may not be the key issue on the minds of most Gainesville voters, Poe stressed the importance of keeping such issues in focus.
“If you’re not grounded in equal rights for 
all citizens, you’re failing to serve your entire community ,” he said. 
Lowe said the fact that Equality Florida 
chose to open an office in Gainesville comes as no surprise. He said that while he is pleased with the strides the city has made with shor -
ing up rights for all citizens, there is still much work to be done. 
The key, Lowe said, would be in translat-
ing the city’s legislative efforts to promote equality into opportunities for residents on a day-to-day basis.
“I think we’ve gone pretty far,” Lowe said, 
“but I think we need to work harder.”
Gay rights organization opens Gainesville chapter
 ALACHUA COUNTY’S TOTAL 
REVENUE WAS $327 MILLION.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
Alachua County residents can find 
out how the county spent their tax 
dollars last year as the 2010 fiscal year annual report has been released by 
county manager Randall Reid and the 
Alachua County Communications Of-fice.
The county will print a couple thou-
sand copies of the report for those who can’t access it online, Communications Coordinator Mark Sexton said. The 
digital report also includes 30-minute 
video interviews with county depart-ment heads.
Total revenues for the 2010 fiscal 
year, which ended Sept. 30, topped $326.83 million, with most of the year’s income streaming in through property taxes. 
Those taxes provided 35 percent of 
total revenues and 75 percent of the revenue for the general fund, which the county commission controls and which is included in the total revenue tally, Sexton said.
For every dollar of property taxes 
spent by an Alachua County property owner, 40 cents went to the Alachua County School Board and 37 cents went to the County General Fund. 
Of that 37 cents, only 15.54 cents 
were used to fund countywide projects 
supported by the commission.
The Board of County Commis-
sioners was the top spender for total 
expenses, accounting for 39 percent of the county’s total costs.
Twenty-five percent of the county’s 
costs went to  the Ala-chua County Sherriff’s Office, constitutional 
officers and judicial of-
ficers.
The Alachua County Public Works 
Department spent the most of any county department with 31 percent of the departments’ total expense, while the public safety department came in second with 20 percent. 
To see the full report, visit http://
www.alachuacounty.us/Depts/Com -
munications/Documents/AnnualRe-ports/Annual-Report-2010.pdf.County releases yearly 
financial report online
Erica Anderson / Alligator
Juggling Break
UF students spend their lunch hour juggling Tuesday on the Plaza of the Americas. UF 
has an official juggling club, Objects in Motion, which is going to the Groundhog Juggling Festival in Atlanta this weekend.
The group fundraised for Mayor Lowe’s election campaign
NewsLocal“I want Gainesville to go to         
Tallahassee and tell legislators 
that their town is an inclusive  
community.”
Mallory Wells
Policy director for Equality Florida4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Sen. Andrew Hart was announced as the new Student Alliance and Progress party leader by Sen. Kevin 
Kleponis at the Student Senate meeting Tuesday night.
By CAROLYN TILLO 
Alligator Staff Writer
Although Tuesday’s Student 
Senate meeting lasted less than 
an hour, members of the Unite Party and the Progress Party have 
hours of work ahead of them as 
elections loom. 
SG general elections will be 
held on Feb. 22 and 23, and parties were required to submit their list of candidates by Tuesday night.
Student Alliance party leader 
Kevin Kleponis announced he will be stepping down from his role due to the party’s merge with Progress Party for the elections. 
The newly merged party will 
maintain the Progress Party name. 
Kleponis expressed his sup-
port for Dave Schneider, Progress Party candidate for Student Body president. 
“He is an activist on campus, 
and he’s going to be an activist Student Body president,” Klepo-
nis said.Both Kleponis and Senate Pres-
ident Ben Meyers, the Unite Party 
candidate for Student Body Presi-dent, urged senators to avoid un-fair or corrupt campaign tactics.
During last February’s election 
season, fliers critical of both the Student Alliance party and the Unite Party were distributed on 
campus.
“What happened last spring 
has done nothing but discourage 
voter turnout [and] increase apa-thy,” Meyers said.
The discussion danced from 
party politics to salsa when sena-tors unanimously approved a bill allocating $1,820 to the Gator Sal-sa Club for a spring formal featur -
ing dance instruction.Senators call for 
clean campaigning
 ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD FEB. 22 AND 23.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
As the qualifying interviews for Student Government elec-
tions wound down Tuesday, the executive race picked up.
The SG political parties announced their candidates for Stu-
dent Body vice president and treasurer this week. 
Cassia Laham, a Progress Party senator, will run for vice 
president as Dave Schneider’s running mate. Amy Chaildin 
will be running as the Progress Party’s candidate for treasurer. Anthony Reynolds will be the Unite Party’s vice presiden-
tial candidate, and T.J. Villamil will be running for treasurer. 
Ben Meyers, the Unite Party candidate for Student Body 
president, said he is honored to be campaigning with Reynolds and Villamil. Reynolds has served as the Unite Party president 
and as SG Cabinet chairman, overseeing all the Cabinet direc-tors. Villamil is the chairman of 
the Senate Budget Committee, 
which is in charge of the $14 million SG budget. 
“I feel like our ticket is three times stronger now that they’re 
on,” said Meyers, who is the current Senate president.
Reynolds said he knows Meyers and Villamil well and has worked with them in the the past.
“We have a really good dynamic, the three of us,” he said. 
Schneider, the Progress Party candidate for president, said 
his running mates want to get more students involved in SG. 
“They want to take SG outside of the third floor of the Reitz 
Union and into Turlington Plaza,” he said.
Laham has been a member of Students for a Democratic So-
ciety , a student activist group, for three years, and is a former 
president of Students for Justice in Palestine. 
Chaildin is a graduate student pursuing her master’s de-
gree in Health Administration and has a bachelor’s degree in 
business administration. She worked for four years as a stu-dent financial assistant in the SG Finance Office. SG political parties announce executive candidates“What happened 
last spring has done           
nothing but discourage 
voter turnout.”
Ben Meyers
Senate President
Student Go vernment
Elections By JOLISA CANTY
Alligator Contributing Writer
 Alligator Contributing Write 
  The Reitz Union Board of Managers is seeking 
student signatures to petition the Make It Reitz 
project, a renovation and expansion of the Reitz 
Union.
  The Make It Reitz campaign is similar to the 
Renew Your Reitz campaign from spring 2010, but the Renew Your Reitz aimed at funding this new project.
  “We are focused on educating students, ﬁ  nding 
out their needs and gaining support so that we can give them the services and resources,” said Mela-nie Varney , chairwoman of the Board of Managers. 
  Make It Reitz was formed in the fall of 2010 by 
Varney after she joined Renew Your Reitz. 
  The union’s programming committee is current-
ly putting together a document that contains all of the needs that students said they want. The ultimate objective is to be able to hand the document 
over to the architects and build a student union that meets the growing needs of students. 
  The board of managers committee plans to 
give Eddie Daniels, executive director of the Reitz 
Union, the document, letters of support from the 
student organizations and student-signed petitions 
by the end of February or early March.
  The campaign ﬂ  iers list the problems the sup-
porters feel need ﬁ  xing, from the outdated design and ﬂ  oor plan to the limited number of available parking spots. 
  Varney said the campaign has about 1,200 sig-
natures of support and about 20 letters of support 
from presidents of various student organizations.   ASSOCIATED PRESS
  MONROE, Ga. — At 114 years old 
and counting, Besse Cooper says it’s 
“rather great” to be the oldest person 
in the world.
  She makes her 75-year-old son 
proud.
  “We were delighted when she got 
to 100. We thought that was a great 
achievement,” said Sid Cooper. “We 
never imagined she’d live to be the 
oldest person in the world.”
  Cooper, who is 114 years and 5 
months old, assumed the mantle 
of the oldest living person after the death Monday of Eunice G. Sanborn of Jacksonville, Texas, according to 
the Los Angeles-based Gerontology 
Research Group. The group certiﬁ  es supercentenarians — people who are 
110 or older.
  Cooper wears a string of pearls 
double-looped around her neck and 
spends her days sitting and sleeping. She now lives in a nursing home in Monroe, Ga., about 45 miles east of Atlanta. 
Her wheelchair has bright pink 
armrests embroidered with “Ms. 
Besse, 2010 114.”
  She was born in Sullivan County, 
Tenn., on Aug. 26, 1896, during the 
second term of President Grover Cleveland.
  One of eight children, she was 
a tomboy and loved tagging along with her two older brothers, climb-
ing trees and splashing in rivers. 
She carried that active lifestyle 
and love of outdoors into adulthood. 
That, plus good genes, is probably the secret to her longevity, her son said.
  But Cooper has her own idea: “I 
mind my own business and I don’t eat junk food,” she said at her 113th 
birthday celebration, The Atlanta 
Journal-Constitution reported.
  Cooper lived on her own until 
she was 105 and stubbornly resisted leaving her house, Sid Cooper said. Her health has declined steeply in 
the last year or so, and she can’t hear 
or see well, he said. Speaking seems 
to require effort.
  She moved to Georgia to be a 
school teacher during World War I, 
her son said.
  She married in the early 1920s and 
taught fourth through seventh grades in a two-room schoolhouse until her ﬁ  rst child was born. Although she 
stopped teaching then, she was an 
avid reader until her eyes got too bad 
last year. She always insisted that her 
children get an education.
  Married for about 40 years, Coo-
per has outlived her husband by 
nearly half a century. They had four 
children, about a dozen grandchil-
dren, numerous great-grandchildren and a great-great-grandchild, Sid Cooper said. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
 AP Photo
  Besse Cooper, 114 years and 5 months old, sits in her room at a nursing 
home Tuesday in Monroe, Ga. Cooper is now the world’s oldest person. 
NATIONAL
 Ga. woman, 114, is world’s oldest
OnCampu s Group wants 
Reitz remodel  The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do you prefer cats over dogs?Tuesday’s question: Do you support US District Judge Vinson’s health care desicion?60% YES40% NO
84 TOTAL VOTES
Two to Tango
Both sides of abortion 
debate face trouble
As if either side needed to garner any more contro-
versy, Planned Parenthood is getting ready for bat-tle with the anti-abortion group Live Action over 
sting operations in several clinics across the country.
The anti-abortion group recorded a conversation 
among a Planned Parenthood worker, an actor playing a pimp and another playing a prostitute. In the recording, 
the clinic worker prepares to secure an abortion for the 
woman, even if the worker has to lie to make the proce-dure cheaper for the prostitute.
Live Action points to its clandestinely shot footage as 
evidence the pro-abortion organization breaks the law to 
secure abortions and other services — even for sex traf-
fickers dealing with minors. Planned Parenthood, how-ever, says the worker who agreed to lie for the group went against organization policies. 
In this case, we’re giving Planned Parenthood the ben-
efit of the doubt because the practice of judging entire groups on one less-than-competent person could be used to call any group of people into question.
We’re bothered that people on both sides of the abortion 
debate are willing to connive for their causes. Does the end justify the means of multiple legal transgressions? 
If both sides stuck to bringing a rational argument to 
the table, rather than relying on deception to expose the 
deceptive, maybe we’d be able to stomach the debate more 
easily.
Anachronisms 101
An Abraham Lincoln researcher attempt-ed to literally rewrite 
history when he changed a date on a presidential par -
don from April 14, 1864, to April 14, 1865.
For those of you who 
didn’t do too well in U.S. History, the one-digit change upgrades the document’s importance from typical par -
don to one of the final papers Lincoln signed on the day of his death. The temptation was too much for a novice 
historian.
Although we frown upon 
tampering with historical 
documents and pieces of art, we can see the allure of 
becoming part of the narra-
tive people spend their lives retelling.
Finding a forgotten piece 
to a puzzle makes an exciting topic for daydream, especial-ly when it concerns one of our most conflicted, beloved and researched presidents.
Nerdy musings are one 
thing, but reality is another.
The ramifications of mak-
ing a change to a primary source of history can never be known, but the conflict between the joy of finding 
something first and revealing 
it accurately to others makes us wonder how many times changes have been made in 
order to stroke an ego or feel 
the rush of discovery.
The problem boils down 
to our human nature. 
When people tell us not 
to touch something, we’re tempted to do just that the moment the words leave their lips.
We’d love to see our 
names passed down for gen-erations, but for now, we are better off scribbling in the margins of a history text-
book.Cats more appropriate pets while in college
Are you a cat or dog person? 
This question somehow gives people piercing 
insight into who we are as individuals based sole-
ly on our preference of feline or canine company. I like to 
think that like nearly everything in life, this choice is not absolute. Both animals have their strengths and annoy-ances. I feel it is necessary, however, to formally submit my endorsement of cats as the overall preferred company of the modern college student.
To put it bluntly, cats are making a comeback: The In-
ternet calls them “LOLCats” for a reason. They’re hilari-
ous and awesome.
We tend to treat both cats and dogs as equivalent hu-
man companions. We call them our friends, members of 
our family and even our children (yikes!). We recognize their emotional states, and we revel in their ability to emu-
late human behavior. We also recognize that a cat or dog 
looks miserable while we trot them around a party saying, 
“Look at this hat on Cookie-Butt! Doesn’t it look so fun-ny?” Yet people still have no problem exploiting their pets for our collective amusement. This spectacle has worked in cats’ favor, as the Internet testifies.
Cats are very much your friends, but their affection 
varies depending on their personalities. Some behave more like roommates who swing by sometimes to see what you’re up to. Others behave more affectionately and greet you as soon as you get home in a way that seems like they want to know about your day. Either way, most cats tend to be passive and standoffish, and some are only in-terested in you until you feed them. Then you can kindly stop touching them before they start clawing and gnash-ing at you like furry, 7-pound demons.
Cats are self-entertained. College life, as you are aware, 
can get crazy busy. Among class, studying, extracurricular activities, a job and social events, it’s a wonder you have time to sleep, let alone hang out with an animal. As long as you meet 
the necessities of food, water and shelter and remember to curate their box of sand sculptures, cats will get along just fine.
Owning a cat is like having a friend that hangs out. 
Owning a dog is like having a toddler for 10 to 20 years.
Dogs beg. They are needy, playful, interactive, highly 
emotional and sometimes quite destructive. They need constant attention. In the late college stage, many couples use dog ownership as a surrogate dry run for having a child because dogs are a big responsibility. They treat dogs like babies, which I get. Really. They give a lot of love but also need a lot of it too. But they’re not kids, and in our ever-busy lives, people seem to take a passive awareness of this and put these super-dependent animals in situa-tions that make dogs miserable. We’re never around. It’s no one’s fault in particular. Dogs and humans have a sym-biotic relationship that goes back to prehistory, and we’re predisposed to want them and love being around them. But the fact is that the college lifestyle we lead doesn’t leave the amount of room that such a loving creature needs to feel nurtured and balanced and behave like the kind of dogs we see on TV . The concept of a dog is nice, but the reality is it’s a big decision to own one.
Dog owners: I’m glad you own them. They’re fun to 
pet. I don’t have the time or budget to afford one myself.
Cat owners: Brush off the cat haters. While you’re at it, 
brush off all that hair on your jacket because some people are allergic to awesome.
Wesley Campbell is a fifth-year English major. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Wesley Campbell
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Students aren’t obligated to take fliers
I’d like to address the UF Student Body 
in response to Laura Ellermeyer’s column 
on fliers yesterday. If you don’t want a flier, 
don’t take one. Period. As someone who’s passed out fliers before, I can tell you that I will not be offended by a “No, thank you” 
if you don’t want my flier. In fact, if you’re 
just going to throw it away, please don’t take 
one. We don’t want paper wasted any more than you do because it’s costing us money, and we might not have enough for the peo-
ple who are actually interested.
Victoria Shelley
UF student
n n n
 
Second Amendment needs another look
Contrasting the recent Alligator poll, 
which found that 69 percent of respondents 
were against state permission for guns on campus, there have been few letters attempt-ing to discredit the gun control position while ridiculing the holders of that opinion.
August Lee, whose letter was published 
Jan. 26, exemplifies those who are blind to reality. Take his casual dismissal of the Tuc-son shooter and Virginia Tech shooting as a misuse of weaponry. Actually, those guns were used to accomplish exactly what they were manufactured for — to kill. The gun lobby apparently wants to ensure more of the same, including the mother in Tampa last week who used a recently purchased pistol to shoot and kill her two teenage chil-dren.As for Lee’s trotting out the usual Na-
tional Rifle Association-fed emphasis on 
the second half of the one-sentence Second 
Amendment, people shouldn’t be buffa-
loed into accepting its supposed sanctity 
without first reading the opening phrase, a conditional clause, and then checking with 
a high school English teacher to determine 
what the implications are for the rest of the 
sentence.
David Grundy
Gainesville resident
n n n
Unite makes wise vice president choice
Today, our campus exposes itself to a 
world of potential firsts, most visibly for 
the Asian Pacific Islander American (APIA) community. But this “first” also extends to all Gators and all of Florida — to you and me. Anthony Reynolds has announced his candidacy for Student Body vice president, and I would like to explain why this is mon-umental and why I personally support him.
Anthony is undoubtedly qualified for 
vice presidency, proven through his exten-
sive involvement in Student Government 
as a former Students Taking Action Against Racism director and a current Cabinet chair -
man. But more compelling is his true com-
mitment to students, as witnessed in his 
deep connection with the APIA community 
through his leadership in the Filipino Stu-dent Association, Building Dreams Founda-tion, Asian Kaleidoscope Month and Asian 
American Student Union.Already, Anthony is breaking barriers as 
the first Filipino-American to run for this 
position in Florida. As an accomplished Asian-American student leader, Anthony can provide strong direction to fulfill our university’s mission of diversity. As a friend and colleague, I know Anthony will speak for those not spoken for. For the APIA com-munity, Anthony will work alongside stu-dents to challenge the historic lack of equal resources at UF for Asian-Americans.
While I personally believe in Anthony 
and what he can do for our campus commu -
nity, I invite you to join AASU at our SG Ex-ecutive Candidate Debate at 6 p.m. on Feb. 14 in CSE A101. Like the Alligator motto says, you decide.
Megan Vu
Asian American Student Union President 
n n n
Players don’t deserve special treatment
Janoris Jenkins has again been arrested. 
On this occasion, he is charged with posses -
sion of marijuana. During 2009, he was ar -
rested and charged with affray and resisting 
arrest without violence. Affray, in case you 
are wondering, translates to fighting and is a 
charge used by law enforcement officials re-served for UF football players and other ce-lebrities that they don’t want to charge with 
assault or battery.
Jenkins is set to appear in court on Feb. 
17. This sentencing should prove interest-
ing. Were the perpetrator anyone other than a potential All-American on the UF football team, he or she would be facing jail time. The previous offense would be resurrected, and the perpetrator would be sentenced for that crime and the possession charge. Bear in mind, this is not Jenkins’ first offense.
The Gators’ new coach said, “There’s a 
certain thing that I’m going to call ‘the Flor -
ida Way,’ and that’s the way we need to act, and that’s the way [the team members] need to represent our university.”
We are witnessing yet another sad indi-
cator of Urban Meyer’s pathetic legacy that includes the arrest of 27 team members dur -
ing his tenure. 
Good luck, Coach Muschamp: You will 
need it. Your predecessor had enough play-ers arrested to form a team — one complete with an offense, defense, punter and kicker. I think you will find your team infested with hoodlums. You have not seen the last arrest of a UF football player. Acorns do not fall far from the tree. 
You should kick Jenkins off the team, take 
his scholarship from him and sue him for re-payment of all scholarship benefits already provided.
The Gator Nation will soon see what 
Coach Muschamp’s view of “the Florida 
way” really is. Will he send a clear message 
to his team? Not likely. 
What we will probably see is business as 
usual. Jenkins will get a perfunctory slap on 
the wrist,  then move on to his millions in 
the NFL, leaving behind only a bad memory 
and a foul taste in our mouths.
Daniel E. Colley
Gainesville resident
A recent study of survey responses, transcript in-formation and data from the Collegiate Learning Assessment concluded that 45 percent of students 
tested after their second year in college showed no im-provement in their development of “higher-order cogni-tive skills.”
This finding is the basis of the soon-to-be-released 
book, Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses. The book is a compilation of the findings of researchers who followed 2,300 undergraduates through four years of college at 24 unidentified higher education institutions to measure the progress of the undergraduates’ critical thinking and analytic reasoning skills.
Dr. Richard Arum, a professor of sociology and educa-
tion at New York University and director of the Education Research Program of the Social Science Research Council, and Dr. Josipa Roksa, an assistant professor of sociology at the University of Virginia, are both authors of the book set to be published by the University of Chicago Press this month.
A portion of the experts’ book was published on the 
Chronicle of Higher Education website, in which the two discuss the book, the data and why college students aren’t improving.
The debate on the costs of higher education and how the 
system can be improved has been a heated topic for years. From students too focused on their social lives to profes-sors focused on individual research, the authors have found that the very people within the higher education system aren’t focused on a remedy to the problems. Even worse, Arum and Roksa say that some may not even no-tice the problems, writing that college students “define and  
understand their college experiences as being focused more on social than on academic development.”
But a developed social aptitude certainly has its perks 
and should not be considered the sole reason students are not learning.Students leave college with strong friendships and lasting memories. They have learned to depend on others, to value friendship and to live independently.
However, when they leave college they don’t entertain 
the thought that their cognitive skills may have never de-veloped.
It is far easier for self-reflective people to view their so-cial progress. A person’s intellectual progress, however, is a much more difficult aspect to examine.
It is ridiculous to say that all stu-
dents only come to college for the so-
cial growth. Perhaps students believe they have intellectu-ally grown from college when in fact, because of the ease of college courses, they have not.
The workload of college courses has a dramatic effect on 
the amount a student improves. The study proves that stu-dents whose classes reflect high expectations (more than 40 pages of reading a week and more than 20 pages of writing a semester) developed their cognitive skills more than oth-er students. Therefore, those teachers who underestimate the work ethic of the current student population may be helping the final grades of their course, but they are in no way improving the overall education of students.
It is clear that several factors are contributing to the 
stunted academic growth in higher education. However, it all boils down to the truth that there aren’t enough people who care to work toward a solution.
“Students in general seek to enjoy the benefits of a full 
collegiate experience that is focused as much on social life as on academic pursuits, while earning high marks in their courses with relatively little investment of effort. Profes-sors are eager to find time to concentrate on their scholar -
ship and professional interests. Administrators have been asked to focus largely on external institutional rankings and the financial bottom line. Government funding agen-cies are primarily interested in the development of new scientific knowledge. In short, the system works. No actors in the system are primarily interested in undergraduates’ academic growth, although many are interested in student retention and persistence.”
The problem lies here: No one is focusing directly on 
the quality of our education — not students, professors, administrators or faculty. How can we, as a nation that once stood as the archetype of higher education success, continue to allow money and politics to steal from future generations’ well being? This research has pinpointed the glaring flaws of higher education and is sure to spark much discussion and hopefully change. However, many aspects of the current academic realm go untouched in this study, such as the major role digital technology has played on 
our generation’s development. Despite our simultaneous 
growth with the digital world, numerous professors refuse 
to incorporate any form of technology into their courses. It 
is absurd to think that teaching styles should never change. 
In fact, the easiest way to attempt to remedy this problem of “no-growth learning” is to ask those who have commit-ted their lives to educating collegiate scholars to tap into 
their classes and discover what is and is not working. It 
seems as if some professors expect all students to conform 
to their generation’s methods rather than discerning the appropriate way to teach for the new generations.
As we become more dependent on technology, courses 
should not continue to refuse the integration of technology. 
However, simply accommodating for technology will not 
solve our problems either. If digital textbooks are supposed to offset the cost of high education, then will an increased 
reading load truly benefit? Therefore, colleges should focus 
on the ability to fully teach a course rather than the ability 
to offer the course at a lower cost. 
Until the realm of higher education has decided to 
embrace technology, this balancing of pros and cons will 
drone on.
The collegiate balance is severely off-kilter. There are 
so many problems to fix and several theoretical remedies. 
What’s missing is action. What was once a highly efficient 
system that churned out bright young minds and innova-
tive ideas is now nearing mass chaos. However, as Arum 
and Roksa say in their book, we can’t classify this problem 
as a “crisis” because no one seems to be treating it as such. 
That is, many people are sitting idle. Administrators are 
still bringing in money, students are enjoying their college 
years and professors are still focusing on personal research. 
Until the higher education constituency bans together 
and resolves to fix our broken system, we may be headed 
downhill to a fate that is, at best, mediocre and, at worst, a 
failure. It shouldn’t take failure to get us motivated.
It should take the fact that some students are leaving 
institutions that proclaim a mission of education without showing any improvement. 
That is failure. And it should be unacceptable. We need 
passion. We need drive. We need a new mindset.
The Lariat, Baylor U. via UWIRE
Colleges should re-examine the quality of higher educationUWire
The Lariat
Editorial Board
UWire8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
AP Photo
A demonstrator reacts in Tahrir — or Liberation — Square in Cairo, Egypt, on Tuesday. More than a quar -
ter-million people filled the city’s main square.
Daniela Guzman / Alligator
Hands of Art
Islam on Campus presented the Islam Awareness Fair on Monday at the Reitz Union Colon -
nade, which included several cultural activities like henna painting. The fair continues today 
from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Reitz Union Colonnade.
A UF student studying in 
Egypt has been evacuated
Cairo streets, where cars whipped 
through intersections without re-gard for anything resembling a traffic regulation.
But now Egypt has been thrust 
into the international spotlight as citizens flock to the streets de-manding a change in government. Study abroad programs to Egypt have been put on indefinite hia-tus.
 One UF student who had been 
studying at the American Univer -
sity in Cairo has been evacuated 
from the country and was in Is-
tanbul as of press time. 
For Russo, what is unfolding 
before the world is not the result of fervent religious sentiment coming into fruition. 
In a country where bribes get 
things done and university pro-fessors, according to Russo, make 
$250 a month, economics come into play.
“A person’s daily wages hinge 
on getting a piece of bread — that 
pivot is so fragile,” Russo said. “How do you bribe your way through the day when you don’t have anything to bribe with?”
Still, Russo remains confident 
that despite the uncertainty, Egypt has the capabilities to emerge as a stronger country thanks to a deep influx of educated youth. 
For now, however, no music 
plays.EGYPT , from page 1LOCAL SCHOOLS
By KRISTIN LOPOPOLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Duval Elementary School is in danger of closing if its 
students do not improve their FCAT scores. 
To help raise the spirit and the school’s D rating from 
the department of education, UF students are giving this 
elementary school a facelift Feb. 25 through 27. 
This year’s Project Makeover team, a UF student-run 
service organization dedicated to improving local low-in-come schools, will renovate the entire school by painting large murals on the walls and adding different landscapes to the play areas. 
The goal is to raise $5,000, and they’ve already raised 
$4,000, said Sara Stout, the project’s executive director.To reach the goal, there will be a Project Makeover 
kickball tournament Feb. 12, and the organization will 
be accepting open donations until the actual dates of the 
project, Stout said.
The team plans to paint large science murals on the 
blank walls of the school to help prepare students for the 
science section of the FCAT. One of the biggest renovations will be to the outdoor 
area of the school, Stout said.
Currently, the school’s outdoor areas are plain and 
have little landscaping.
“Our goal is to create an outdoor area for students to 
have class in the shade,” she said.
The Project Makeover team will install three heavy-
duty picnic tables in the yard of the school, along with 
trees for shade. 
Stout said the project helps show elementary students 
that the university and the community support them and 
want them to succeed.
“When we beautify the students’ school, it is much 
easier for them to be motivated and excited about learn-
ing,” Stout said.UF students plan to give makeover to low-income schooln 15,000 JOBS AT LARGE 
FIRMS HAVE DISAPPEARED SINCE 2008.
By DANIELLE ALVAREZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
The dream of becoming a lawyer 
with a high salary might be slowly 
fading away . 
A recent New York Times article 
discussed the realities of law school 
debt and stated that according to 
a Northwestern Law study , about 15,000 attorney and legal-staff jobs at large firms have disappeared since 2008.
“Make sure you want to be a law-
yer, not just a sports agent, not just a media law mogul but a lawyer,” said Bob O’Linn, a first-year law stu-
dent at UF.
O’Linn said he isn’t discouraged 
and has been offered a paid intern-
ship in Jacksonville.
 “The key is personal contact and 
meeting with people in the market you want to practice,” O’Linn said.The UF Levin College of Law has 
its own Center for Career Develop-ment, which provides law students and alumni with a range of career sources including workshops and individual career counseling, ac-cording to its website. 
Robert Rush, a UF law school 
alumnus, graduated from the law school back in 1985. Rush is now part-owner of a law office located in downtown Gainesville. 
He said he has received 20 re-
sumes in the past year but doesn’t need to hire any-
one new. How-
ever, he does offer summer clerk-
ships for current law students. 
Rush said students should look 
for jobs and not worry about the pay until they gain some experience be-cause they are competing with law-yers who do have experience.
“It’s a myth that you’re going to 
become a multi-millionaire,” said Rush. “If you take care of the client and the case, you don’t have to wor -
ry about the money ever again.”Jobs harder to get 
for law school grads
UFAcademic s
“When we beautify the students’ school, it 
is much easier for them to be motivated and 
excited about learning.”
Sara Stout
executive director of Project Makeover
“How do you bribe your 
way through the day when 
you don’t have anything to 
bribe with?”
Sandra Russo
director of program development 
and federal relations for the UF 
International CenterClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDA Y, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Call today 352-271-3131
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$439 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. 
Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus 
Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-
205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-8-
15-1
2/2 Condo Avail ASAP!Option to furnish.
$700.Close to UF,Santa Fe & Mall.2 bus 
routes.Pet friendly.Great Place,Good Deal! 
305.469.8020 tiah2005@gmail.com    2-2-
11-5-1
FURNISHED 3BR/2BA HOME
Cent H/AC, W/D, living room, family room, 
kitchen, dining room, garage, fenced-in 
backyard, side patio. 10 min from UF/SFC. 
$1000/mo. Call 386-441-8208    2-4-11-5-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning
.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 10-2  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/DPet friendly352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-2-10-30-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year lease, $700/mo●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-pitals, many extras,$895/mo●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-4-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-8-11-19-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-8-11-14-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-8-11-14-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
****  HOUSE 4BR/2BA  ****
Avail 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, bike to UF. 
NO Pets. Drive by 3532 NW 7th Ave, pick up flyer. $1200/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645    2-18-11-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2Beautiful, 1bd, 1ba, loft.
5 min. on freeway from SFC.
Renovated with tile & carpet. pool,
clubhouse, exercise room, quiet location.
$450mo $450sec $45appl fee. 472-6491
2-4-11-6-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 
15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-
yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, big 
yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D provided. 
Fireplace in living room & game room w/ bar 
area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo. 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2--8-11-4-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No 
pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus 
routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   
2-21-11-14-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo 
at Countryside. $425/month. Short term 
lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 
bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   
2-4-11-21-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-
pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! 
Call 850-974-0686   2-4-11-20-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.   2-14-10-
4
Roommate wanted to share nice furnished 
home in NW neighborhood 2 mi from UF.  
4 BR 2BA w/ W/D, all wood floors & large 
fenced backyard.  $450 inclds util, cable, HS 
internet.  No pets, N/S. 352-284-0771.   2-7-
11-5-4
2 male roommates needed. 2BRs avail in 
3BR/2BA house. Close to UF campus, on 
bus route, large fenced-in backyard. Cent H/
AC, pets welcome. $400/mo + elec. Call 561-
706-5378    2-8-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 11
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
2-11-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submir resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
2-4-11-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
12, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
2-8-10-30-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, 
Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-63002-4-11-20-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   2-9-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 for more info and interview.    2-16-25-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, clean building, very minor mechanical, hours1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   11-20-11-5-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14Dependable,experienced Nanny needed to 
care for newborn; M-F; 35 hrs/wk; occasion -
al travel with mom; $9/hr. FL Driver License, background check, and excellent references 
required. Email resume to
abtwbutler@gmail.com.   2-4-11-10-14
Translator-Interpreter, English-Spanish, 
needed for immigration law office - PT. 
Resume to: robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com. 
2-2-11-5-14
UF Stadium Concessions Now Hiring!
Located in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, 
Centerplate is hiring Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Runners to work flexible hours. 
Apply in person 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM, Monday-
Friday. Phone:(352)375-4683 x6500.    2-4-
11-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.
2-8-11-7-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced full/part time.
Some weekends & holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
2-9-11-7-14.
Energy Analyst
Professional and analytic work associated 
with the supply and transporatation of natural 
gas. Results oriented position that exercises 
considerable independent judgment and 
decision-making. Minimum Requirements 
include: Bachelors degree in Economics, 
Finance or Engineering; 3 years experience 
with thorough knowledge of statistical and 
economic analysis techiniques; exceptional 
problem-solving skills; proficiency with MS 
Office applications.
Starting Salary: $52,000
Please mail, fax , or e-mail resume to:
Florida Gas Utility, Attn: HR,
4619 NW 53rd Ave, Gainesville, FL 32606
Fax: 352-334-0789
E-mail: HR@flgas.com            2-2-11-2-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITY
WHY PAY MORE? 371 9696
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research 
will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. 
Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF studentsGatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.    2-4-11-6-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
3 Year Old Female Black Lab, Weimaraner 
mix. Spade and chipped. Great hunting in-
stinct. Free to good home. Evenings 352-
376-7353.   2-8-11-5-24
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Sports
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
ONLINE MEN’S TRACK BACK TO NO. 1 TEEING OFF WITH ANTHONY CHIANG
n UF president Bernie Machen ripped the act of grayshirting in a letter sent to 
SI.com. But the Gators tried to grayshirt two recruits last season and at least one 
this year. Maybe Machen could utilize the Internet to research certain things be -
fore appearing uninformed about his own program. What’s he going to do next? Speak out on college football felons being let off the hook without punishment?n After two automatic-qualifying 
marks at the Texas A&M Challenge, UF’s men’s track and field team sits atop the USTFCCCA Division I Men’s Indoor National Team Rankings.n Keep an eye on alligatorSports.org, our 
recruiting blog and on Twitter at @alligator -
Sports as we update live from two state high schools and post Florida coaches’ reactions to the events of National Signing Day.Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Chandler Parsons shoots during the Gators’ 65-61 overtime victory against Vanderbilt in the O’Connell Center on Tuesday night. Parsons finished with 18 points and 11 rebounds.
 THE SENIOR HAD 18 
POINTS AND 11 BOARDS.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
  
In the closing moments of Tues-
day’s game, the Gators were likely 
feeling a sense of déjà vu. 
Just four days earlier, UF gave 
away its contest against Mississippi State due to poor free-throw shoot-
ing down the stretch. 
Against Vanderbilt, UF’s free-
throw struggles nearly cost the 
Gators the game in regulation, but 
senior forward Chandler Parsons 
remained calm. 
With 15 seconds left in overtime 
and the Gators up by two, Par -
sons stepped to the line and coolly knocked down both of his free throws, securing a 65-61 Florida (17-
5, 6-2 Southeastern Conference) win 
over Vanderbilt (15-6, 3-4 Southeast-
ern Conference) on Tuesday night in 
the O’Connell Center. 
“I just needed to be a man, go up 
there and put the ball in the hole,” Parsons said. “It’s all mental. I just stepped up there and knocked it 
down, and I was fortunate to do that 
for my team in a clutch situation.”
Parsons’ free-throws were the 
icing on an 18-point, 11-rebound double-double. 
The senior forward also chipped in two assists and three steals en 
route to one of his most complete 
games of the season. 
“He rebounded the ball, he was 
aggressive and he was physical,” UF 
coach Billy Donovan said. “He did a 
lot of really good things for us all the 
way around.”
The Gators had an eight-point 
lead with 4:51 to play but scored just 
one point the rest of regulation, go-
ing 1 for 4 at the line and 0 for 6 from 
the field.
Meanwhile, Vanderbilt con-
nected on its final six free throws, evoking memories of previous late 
losses. 
“It would’ve been awful,” Par -
sons said of the prospect of losing 
another game because of free throws. 
“There’s no way around it: Losing is 
terrible. I’m just glad we made some 
big plays tonight to get the W.”
Rebounding was a huge factor 
in the game, particularly in the final 
moments, as Parsons earned his spot 
at the line when he rebounded his 
own miss with UF leading by two. 
Overall, UF was dominant on the 
glass, establishing a 47-34 advan-tage, with 15 of its rebounds coming 
on the offensive end. 
Five players had at least five 
boards, as seemingly everyone got involved in the physicality of the 
contest. 
“That was by far the most physi-
cal game we played all year long,” Parsons’ free throws seal overtime win vs. Vandy
Chandler Parsons may 
have come up bigger than anyone against 
the Commodores, but Erving Walker proved Tuesday this is his team.
Sure, Parsons walked out 
the hero. He led the team in scoring and rebounds. He showed why he’s the best pro 
prospect.
And yeah, he knocked down 
two huge free throws with 15 
seconds left. But make no mis-take: In crunch time, the Gators look to Walk e r, who fin-ished  tied for second  on the team  with 15 points.
L a s t 
week against Georgia, Walker stepped up at the end of the first overtime, hitting a 30-foot-Walker becomes Gators’ 
go-to guy late in gamesBy TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
Two months into his new job, 
Gators coach Will Muschamp has 
his first real test.
With 17 recruits orally commit-
ted to UF, and seven already en-rolled in classes, Muschamp and his staff are looking for a strong finish today , when athletes can first sign national letters of intent.
But that could prove difficult 
with his inaugural class.
Since taking over for Urban 
Meyer, Muschamp has gained 
commitments from three recruits: 
Miami Monsignor Pace High safe-ty Jabari Gorman, Middletown (Conn.) Xavier High linebacker Graham Stewart and Coconut Creek North Broward Prep defen-sive end Tevin Westbrook. 
Over the first two months, 
though, Muschamp also lost com-mitments from Groveland South Lake High cornerback Nick Wai-
some, Plantation High linebacker 
Ryan Shazier 
and Kirtland (Ohio) Lake Catholic High offensive line-
man Chase Hounshell.
“That’s what happens in a 
transition year,” ESPN recruiting analyst Jamie Newberg said. “It’s 
awfully tough to do with a short 
recruiting window.”
Even though building relation-ships with recruits in two months is a lot to ask of coaches, Mus-champ and his staff have been hard at work trying to assemble the Gators’ 2011 recruiting class, which is currently ranked 17th by Rivals.com.
Although fans may be dis-
appointed with UF’s class, it 
shouldn’t come as a surprise.
“It’s kind of what we expect-
ed,” Newberg said. “Remember 
back to Urban Meyer’s first class? It was pretty much the same type of thing. This is par for the course when there’s a coaching change.”
In Meyer’s first year recruiting 
for Florida, his class ranked 15th 
and only had 18 signees.
Muschamp has already accom-
plished his goal of getting early 
enrollees. That includes four-star Muschamp faces first NSD at UF
Recruiting
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @iam_tylerTransition class hard to judgeSEE HOOPS, PAGE 16
SEE RECRUIT, PAGE 16SEE TYLER, PAGE 16  By TOM GREEN
 Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
   
Hunter Joyer’s decision to 
commit to Florida last June was an easy one. 
  Location played a pivotal role 
for the nation’s top-rated fullback, who lives in Wesley Chapel, about 25 miles northeast of Tampa.
  His mother, Kristen, had an 
aneurysm last February, and dis-tance was part of the reason Joyer recently transferred from Tampa Catholic High to Wesley Chapel 
High, where he spent his ﬁ  rst two 
years of high school.
  “It was scary, not knowing if I 
was going to lose her or not,” Joy-
er said. “It’s something I worried 
about a lot.”
  Joyer was making a 45-minute 
trip to and from school each day. With his mom’s health condition, 
Joyer and his family could no lon-
ger commit the time and money it took for him to remain at Tampa Catholic.
  “I wanted to be close to her,” 
Joyer said. “She’s getting back to normal. I guess she won’t be back to being 100 percent, but she’s do-ing pretty good.”
  The opportunity to be a mere 
two hours away from home to play college football appealed to the former Tampa Catholic stand-
out.
  That was enough to make Joy-
er, Rivals.com’s No. 1 fullback, 
commit to Florida, a school that was always at the top of his list because of the academics and prestige of the football program.
  “He’s such a grounded young 
man,” Crusaders coach Bob Hen-
riquez said. “He’s fairly quiet, but 
on the ﬁ  eld, he’s ﬁ  ery. … Some-times you don’t know whether something’s eating at him or 
bothering him, but it couldn’t be 
easy what he’s gone through.”
  At Florida, Joyer would be able 
to easily travel home and check on his mom if anything were to 
happen. 
  Although fullbacks have been 
irrelevant at UF, Joyer thought he 
would see the ﬁ  eld if he proved 
his worth to the coaches, so he 
stayed strong in his commitment.
  And now, Joyer could ﬁ  nd 
himself becoming a bigger player in the Gators’ offense than he ever 
imagined.
é é é
  
  Joyer had his heart set on Flor-
ida ever since he was young. He 
would often visit the school and 
check out the stadium with his family.
  When former Florida coach Ur-
ban Meyer told Joyer his potential role in the Gators’ offense, the de-cision became even clearer. 
  Henriquez, who coached Joyer 
as a junior and senior, said Meyer 
and his staff didn’t plan on re-
cruiting a fullback with this year’s class — until they saw Joyer.
  “They were so impressed with 
Hunter that they made the deci-sion to offer him because they didn’t think there would be a full-back with his skill set next year,” 
Henriquez said.
  Nevermind that Meyer’s 
spread-option offense rarely used 
a fullback, or that not once during Meyer’s tenure at Florida did he 
land a true fullback in one of his 
recruiting classes.
It didn’t matter to Joyer that 
none of the fullbacks on the 
Gators’ roster under Meyer had 
recorded more than one career carry
  But when coaches offered 
Joyer a scholarship on June 16, he 
didn’t hesitate to accept, and he 
gave his oral commitment to UF the following day.
  Joyer and Henriquez said 
Meyer told them he was trying to transition the offense into a more traditional one that included two-back sets because defenses were starting to catch up to the spread. 
  “[The coaches] wanted to use a 
fullback more than they actually were,” Joyer said. “They didn’t really know if any of the full-
backs they had could really run 
the ball. The offense was ready to have a fullback, and they wanted to change it around with [John] Brantley at quarterback.”
  The two-time national title-
winning coach sold Joyer on play-ing for Florida despite the lack of a role for the position in Meyer’s 
offense and the fact that many 
considered him an afterthought in the Gators’ recruiting class. 
  “I don’t have to be in the spot-
light or be the main guy on the team,” Joyer said. “It doesn’t bother me at all.”
é é é
  As a fullback, Joyer is used to 
being overlooked. 
  The top high school prospects 
at each position are normally 
four- and ﬁ  ve-star recruits. But the nation’s No. 1 fullback this year is a three-star recruit for the 
ﬁ  rst time since at least 2001, ac-
cording to Rivals.com. 
  “Growing up, I wasn’t always 
the most athletic one on the ﬁ  eld, so I had to get it done other ways,” 
Joyer said. 
  Joyer found fullback to be a 
natural ﬁ  t, especially since his 
father, Jack, also played it. Joyer 
was always 30 to 40 pounds big-
ger than most kids his age, but not much taller, and couldn’t play many other positions. Offensive line wasn’t an option to him — he 
wanted the chance to touch the 
ball.
  As a senior at Tampa Catholic, 
the 6-foot, 245-pound Joyer began 
the season as the Crusaders’ fea-
tured back because of the team’s youth at running back. He was a year removed from being the lead blocker for a 1,700-yard rusher, 
and his offense struggled early on 
when his role changed.
  “He was willing to play more 
fullback to help the team, so he 
went back to that traditional 
role,” Henriquez said. 
  When Florida coach Will 
Muschamp took over for Meyer and said he would implement a 
pro-style offense, Joyer knew he 
would be one of the players to reap the beneﬁ  ts.
  “I was really excited about 
that,” Joyer said. “I knew the of-fense would ﬁ  t my style a lot bet-ter than it did before, so I thought it was even a better decision after they hired [Muschamp].”
  When Muschamp later named 
former Notre Dame head coach and Kansas City Chiefs offensive coordinator Charlie Weis as the 
Gators’ offensive coordinator, 
Joyer knew he would have an op-portunity to make an impact at Florida, even as a freshman.
  On his ofﬁ  cial visit to UF in 
January, and during an in-school visit, Joyer sat down with Weis and discussed the role he will play in Florida’s offense when he signs 
his national letter of intent today, 
ofﬁ  cially becoming a Gator.
  “My future seems pretty 
strong,” Joyer said. “I won’t have to worry about not being used 
and not being on the ﬁ  eld.”
é é é
  Even after Meyer resigned in 
December, Joyer didn’t waver in 
his commitment to the school. 
As long as Florida didn’t hire a coach who planned on run-ning a ﬁ  ve-wide-receiver offense, Joyer intended to keep his word.   The chance to contribute was still 
there for Joyer when Muschamp 
and Weis were hired.
  “He’ll be able to get on the 
ﬁ  eld,” ESPN recruiting analyst Corey Long said. “The opportu-
nity will deﬁ  nitely be there.” 
 During his only season with 
the Chiefs, Weis’ offense led the 
NFL in rushing yards (2,627) and 
was tied for fourth in yards per 
carry (4.7). Part of the credit for that goes to the fullbacks, who, despite not putting up many stats, were primarily used as lead 
blockers. 
   When Joyer met with Weis, 
the coach told Joyer he intends to 
use the fullback like he has in the 
past: as a lead blocker, goal-line 
back and receiver in the ﬂ  ats and out of play action.
    Long thinks Joyer will be able 
to ﬁ  ll that role for Florida.
  “He’ll grow into a nice pros-
pect,” Long said. “He’s a good blocker and has some good re-ceiving skills. He’s a decent run-
ner and a tough kid. ... He’ll be a 
good blocking back.” 
  With a spot in the offense al-
ready mapped out, Weis told Joyer the chance to play early was 
there for him but to not feel pres-
sured by it. 
  “I know I have a lot of work to 
get done,” Joyer said. “I need to 
work hard and impress the coach-
es and show them that I have what it takes to start. There’s always a possibility I can start, but I won’t guarantee anything.” 
  The Gators have two fullbacks 
on their roster with game experi-ence: rising senior Steven Wilks and rising junior T.J. Pridemore, 
both of whom were converted 
from defense to fullback before coming to Florida. 
  Together, the two have played 
in 35 games and totaled zero ca-
reer carries, contributing mostly 
on special teams.
  Joyer, who bench presses at 
least 485 pounds, feels his body 
is mature enough to contribute 
right away in college. Henriquez described Joyer as a student of the game and thinks his skill set will transition well to the next level. 
  “He’s going to be an intricate 
part,” Long said. “He’ll be one of those blocking fullbacks that you deﬁ  nitely notice if he’s not in the 
game because the production of 
the offense goes down.” 
  After originally being an af-
terthought in the Gators’ 2011 recruiting class, Joyer’s decision 
to remain close to home and com-
mit to Florida, despite the coach-ing change, helped put him in an unfamiliar spot for UF fullbacks: 
relevant. 
  “It seems like the situation 
played itself out for the better,” 
Joyer said. 14, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
 fully committed
FB commit Joyer remains loyal to family, UF
Alligator File Photo
Florida fullback commit Hunter Joyer, left, will sign his national letter of intent to play for the Gators 
today. The former Tampa Catholic standout is the top-rated prospect in the country at his position.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
 FLORIDA BEAT SECOND-PLACE 
NORTH FLORIDA BY 25 SHOTS.
By ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
 
Florida men’s golf coach Buddy Alexan-
der expressed a simple sentiment after the Gators completed their domination at the JU Invitational on Tuesday.
“You couldn’t ask for anything more,” he 
said. 
The Gators managed to win the event 
by a remarkable 25-shots over second-place North Florida. The team’s 6-under-par final score was 
due in large part to senior Bank Vongvanij, who shot 1-over-par on Tuesday but turned 
in a 5-under-par score of 211 for the event. 
Vongvanij’s showing was enough to earn 
him the individual crown, as he bested Lib-
erty’s Robert Karlsson by two strokes. 
Vongvanij was not alone in his efforts, 
though, as four other Gators golfers earned 
top-20 finishes. 
Phillip Choi shot an even-par round to 
finish in fifth,Andres Echavarria turned in a 1-over-par round to come in seventh and 
Tyler McCumber finished eighth. 
Tommy Mou bounced back from an 8-over-par showing on Monday with an 
even-par round on Tuesday, earning a 19th-
place finish. 
Alexander was satisfied by his team’s 
performance over the two-day event. 
“We came here hoping to play solid golf and win the tournament, and we managed 
to do both of those things,” he said. 
Alexander came away impressed by the 
performance of Vongvanij and his individ-
ual win. He was also proud of the resilience shown by Mou to shoot an even-par round 
after struggling Monday. 
Florida now has the chance to fine-tune 
before looking to defend its home turf at the 
Gator Invitational, which is played on the Mark Bostick Golf Course on Feb. 12-13. 
“We try to improve every day,” Alexan-
der said. “Golf is an individual sport, and 
everybody has things that they would like 
to improve.”Gators dominate at JU Invitational for early season win
“We came here hoping to play 
solid golf and win the tournament, 
and we managed to do both of 
those things.”
Buddy Alexander
Florida men’s golf coach16, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Safety De’Ante Saunders, a Florida commit who enrolled early, is one of 17 recruits orally commit-
ted to new coach Will Muschamp and the Gators entering National Signing Day today.
Florida still in contention for several top prospects
quarterback Jeff Driskel, four-star 
running back Mike Blakely and four-star tight end A.C. Leonard.
Florida wide receiver commit 
Ja’Juan Story , who has wavered 
since Meyer resigned, will make 
his decision between UF and Ohio State at 9 a.m. at Brooksville Na-ture Coast Technical High.
The Gators remain in conten-
tion for several of the nation’s top uncommitted recruits, many of whom will make decisions today.
Marcus Roberson, the nation’s 
No. 2 cornerback, will announce at Ft. Lauderdale St. Thomas Aquinas today . 
Five-star linebacker Curtis 
Grant will sign his letter of intent in a 1:30 p.m. ceremony at Rich-mond (Va.) Hermitage High.
Moreno Valley Rancho V erde 
High wide receiver Junior Pomee, 
whose finalists are UF and USC, 
will announce at 7:30 tonight.
Four-star defensive tackle Tim-
my Jernigan will announce at 11 a.m. at Lake City Columbia High.
“They’ll get a few kids, not nec-
essarily from their top list,” ESPN recruiting analyst Corey Long said. “But [Muschamp] might get 
a shocker or two.”RECRUIT , from page 13
er as time expired to keep UF alive. While 
he won’t show up on any highlight reels for his effort Tuesday, Walker was just as big.
With less than a second left in the first 
half and Florida trailing 24-22, coach Billy Donovan drew a play for Walker. It’s mo-ments like those when a team reveals who it will lean on with the game on the line.
Walker fielded the inbounds pass just 
beyond the arc and knocked down a trey between a pair of Commodores, giving the Gators the lead and momentum headed to the locker room.
People won’t remember that shot years 
from now, but in an overtime game, that was as big as any.
When a pair of free throws by John Jen-
kins tied the game with 23 seconds left in regulation, Florida again turned to Walker. Holding the ball for the last shot, Walker 
drove right, pulled up and missed a poten-tial game-winner off the back rim.
If he makes that shot, Walker receives the 
same attention Parsons did a year ago when his buzzer-beating three-pointers against N.C. State and South Carolina earned him a recurring role on SportsCenter. 
But Walker didn’t make it, and he isn’t a 
candidate for Dickie V’s all-onions team. 
Yet. The fact that the team looked to him in 
that moment, however, is huge. 
“He’s the point guard, so we expect ev-
erything to run through him,” sophomore guard Kenny Boynton said. “He isn’t afraid 
to hit big shots. He’s shown he can, and we 
have confidence in him.”
And in overtime, Walker stepped up 
again, hitting one of two free throws, scor -
ing on a coast-to-coast layup and setting up Boynton for his wide-open three-pointer that gave the Gators a 63-61 lead. 
Knowing the Gators, they will find 
themselves in a few more tight games be-tween now and the NCAA Tournament. And if you happen to watch some of those nail-biters, keep an eye on No. 11. 
Also, look at the rest of the team. If they 
act anything like they did in the closing sec-
onds of regulation Tuesday, you will see a 
lot of players setting picks and standing out of the way.
For whatever reason, some would brand 
Walker a ball hog. But he’s not. Every team needs one player willing to step up at the end of games.
That is as much a part of a team’s iden-
tity as anything. And while the Gators still have plenty to figure out (Should they use that small lineup more? Will Vernon Mack-lin ever get off the bench in tight games?), they at least have the most important ele-ment in place.
TYLER , from page 13Donovan said. 
Florida’s advantage inside 
was aided by Vanderbilt’s foul 
trouble, as frontcourt stalwarts 
Festus Ezeli, Jeffery Taylor and 
Steve Tchiengang all fouled out late in the contest.  
“That was real important,” 
Parsons said. “When it gets to 
overtime it’s hard not to pick up 
that fifth foul. We were fortunate those guys … got in foul trouble early so we could get them out of 
the game.”
The second half was a streaky 
affair filled with runs for both 
sides. 
UF seemed poised to take con-
trol of the game when it went on a 
7-0 run to take an eight-point lead, but Van-
derbilt quickly 
r e s p o n d e d 
with an 8-1 
stretch of its 
own to close 
the gap. 
UF followed with a 9-2 spurt, 
giving the Gators an eight-point 
lead that evaporated as Vander -
bilt closed out the final 4:51 with 
a 9-1 run. 
Both teams got off to hot starts 
before cooling off from the field. 
Florida and Vanderbilt combined for 18 points in the first four min-
utes but scored just 31 the rest of 
the half. 
Vanderbilt was set to take a 
lead into halftime, until Parsons inbounded the ball to Walker with just one second remaining 
and the junior hit a 30-foot buzz-
er beater to give UF a one-point halftime lead.Vanderbilt 
foul trouble aids Gators
HOOPS , from page 13
Men's
Bask etball