VOLUME 106 ISSUE 57 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UPD arrests hacker after months of investigation
The man accessed a UF employee’s email, pg 3.  
Asian LGBT speakers to discuss experiences
The panel is today at 6:30 p.m. in Ustler Hall, pg 8. Student Senate delays election reform bill
Senate President plans to assemble a
committee to review changes, pg. 8. 
80/51
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 18CROSSWORD  21
SPORTS 22Student Living 
Guide, page 9.
 Haley Stracher / Alligator
  Sherwin Rio, a 19-year-old art and criminology sophomore, and seniors Mary Hart, 23, an aerospace engineering 
major, and Melnard Rio, 21, a civil engineering major, read pew cards with the new Catholic prayers on them. 
  KATHLEEN BIRKHIMER
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  On Nov. 27, Catholic churches in Gainesville and 
around the world will adopt a new translation of the Ro-man Missal, which provides instructions for Mass. The translation will be the biggest change to Mass in recent years.
  “It will affect a lot of the responses we’ve been say-
ing [during Mass] since we were little kids,” said Catholic Gators co-president John Callovi.
  The changes are designed to provide a more accurate 
translation of the original Latin, said Letty Valentine, Liturgy director of the Holy Faith Catholic Church in Gainesville. 
  Some changes, like the line “one in being with the Fa-
ther” to “consubstantial with the Father” may be more difﬁ  cult to understand, she said.
  “It’s going to feel foreign to us,” Valentine said. “It’s 
going to be difﬁ  cult to follow the meaning of it.”
  Daniel Conigliaro, spiritual director of the Newman 
Club, a Catholic organization at UF, said he has attended information sessions on the new translation.
  “[The change] requires some effort on our part,” he 
said.
  The new translation, including “consubstantial,” is 
truer to the original meaning, Valentine said.
  “’Consubstantial with the Father’ expresses better that 
Jesus and God are of the same substance,” she said.
  Conigliaro said he also thinks the change is positive.   “The imagery used in prayers will be very clear and 
allow for deeper meditation on what these words really mean,” he said.  Students anticipate changes to Catholic Mass
�   UF IS THE ONLY LOCATION IN 
FLORIDA TO OFFER A FOUNTAIN VERSION OF THE BEVERAGE.
VIKTORIYA CANEVA
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 
  Cheerwine, a popular southeast-
ern, cherry-ﬂ  avored soft drink, has made its way to Florida.
  The Carolina Beverage Corp.’s 
soft drink appears in grocery stores, convenience stores and now, on the UF campus. 
In January, Carolina Beverage 
Corp. partnered up with Pepsi Bever-age Co. in hopes of widening its dis-tribution to all 50 states by its 100th anniversary in 2017. 
“The success we have had in 
Florida is tremendous,” said   Robbie Jones, the regional sales manager for the brand in Florida.
He said the ofﬁ  cial launch of 
Cheerwine distribution in Florida be-gan Oct. 17.
  UF is the only location in the state 
to offer a fountain version of the soda. 
Since last Monday, fountain Cheer-
wine can be found at the Gator Cor-ner Dining Center, and by the end of  Cheerwine partners with 
PepsiCo, makes way to UFRELIGION
  MORGAN WATKINS
 Alligator Staff Writer
  Students and faculty were evacuated from 
Norman Hall on Tuesday after someone pulled 
a ﬁ  re alarm. 
  The ﬁ  re alarm sounded at about 3 p.m., said 
Maj. Brad Barber, public information ofﬁ  cer for the University Police.
  There was no ﬁ  re.Safety standards require a building to be 
evacuated when one of its ﬁ  re alarms is set off.  UPD and Gainesville Fire Rescue arrived on 
scene shortly afterward to investigate.  
  It took between 10 and 15 minutes to de-
termine that Norman Hall was safe and that people could return without fear of harm, Bar-ber said. 
  “Once it was conﬁ  rmed there was no ﬁ  re or 
threat, the ﬁ  re alarm was silenced and the indi-viduals were allowed back into the building,” he said. 
  Students and faculty were permitted to re-
turn to Norman Hall between 3:15 p.m. and 3:30 p.m., Barber said.  Norman Hall evacuated after 
someone pulled ﬁ  re alarm
SEE CHEERWINE, PAGE 4“Once it was conﬁ  rmed there was 
no ﬁ  re or threat, the ﬁ  re alarm was 
silenced and the individuals were 
allowed back into the building.”
Brad Barber
public information ofﬁ  cerGainesville Fire 
Rescue, UPD   responded to callNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 57 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classiﬁ  eds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jﬂ  echas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
Metro Editor Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Victoria Livingston,   vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org Classiﬁ  ed Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke,   Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/54SUNNY
74/49SUNNY
67/41RAIN
78/44PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/51
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
Sock It To Me
Today through Nov. 21
Community Advocates are col-lecting new and gently used socks for St. Francis House. Collection boxes are placed in Peabody Hall Room 311 and various residence hall common areas. Visit the Facebook event, CA’s “Sock it to Me,” for  more information and specific dona-tion locations.
International DevelopmentCareer Networking Day
Today, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Reitz Union Career Resource Center LibraryThe Career Resource Center and the UF International Center are bringing development or-ganizations to UF to network with you. If you are interested in this exciting field, be sure to attend. International devel-opment organizations seek to improve human well-being through health, agriculture, ed-ucation and environmental ini-tiatives. Stop by to learn more about organizations that work within this arena. If you have any questions, stop by the CRC or contact Nadene Reynolds at 352-273-2331 or nadenereyn-olds@crc.ufl.edu.
First Amendment Free Food 
FestivalToday, noon to 2 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasStudents can trade their First Amendment rights for free food. This event is to edu-speaker. Visit the Facebook 
group “Impact Autism @ UF” for more information.
Yitzhak Rabin Memorial
Today, 7 p.m.
UF HillelCome honor the life and leg-acy of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. Dinner and discussion will follow the cer-
emony. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.cate people about the im-portance of free speech.
Project MASCOT’s Taco Fiesta
Today, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.UF Baptist Collegiate MinistriesHelp Project MASCOT take its mentees to SeaWorld while enjoying an all-you-can-eat meal of hard/soft tacos (vegetarian option available), drinks and des-serts. Advance tickets are $5 at Peabody Room 301 and $7 
at the door. 
A Legislative Preview
Today, 6 p.m.Pugh HallMary Ellen Klas, Tallahassee bureau chief of The Miami Herald, will provide a jour-nalistic preview of the up-coming legislative session and the impact of the redis-tricting process. 
Impact Autism @ UF General 
Meeting
 Today, 6:30 p.m.
HPNP Building,  Room G301Come to the second general meeting of the year and learn how to get involved this fall. There will also be a guest 
SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
BUSINESS
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
Grooveshark will hire about 15 people before New 
Year’s. 
352 Media Group will hire about 12 people during 
the next two months. 
Trendy Entertainment is hiring, too.
In a down economy, some students turn their gaze 
outside of Gainesville for jobs. But between the Innova-tion Gainesville economic development plan and local hiring sprees, there are possible signs that the technol-ogy industry in Gainesville is growing.
Mark Rush, UF economics professor, said Gaines-
ville’s economy has long relied on the university, the Shands health system and the county seat. It’s possible, he said, the technology industry is Gainesville’s next big industry, although only time will tell whether it will define the city.
“People are moving that direction,” Rush said. “So 
the jobs are going to follow.”
The signs of growth come in a year when several 
businesses in Gainesville have closed due to the econo-my, including Gator Dawgs, Borders and Blockbuster.
Bookstores have to compete with Amazon, Rush 
said. DVD stores have to compete with online movie sites. Restaurants come and go all the time.
Rush said companies like YouTube and Facebook 
are doing extremely well.
“All those places are growing and hiring like cra-
zy,” he said. “The hiring will follow the success of the company.” 
Numerous other Gainesville technology-based busi-
nesses are starting to emerge, including RoomSync, Niche Mobile and Puppy Punch Productions.
Agapitus Benjamin Lye, CEO of Trendy Entertain-
ment, said he works hard to make his company a place people want to work.
Trendy Entertainment released its newest game, 
“Dungeon Defenders,” in October. As of Tuesday, it was rated as the fifth top-selling game on Steam, a digi-tal distribution site.
Peter Van Rysdam, chief marketing officer and co-
founder of 352 Media Group, said Gainesville’s young culture has helped companies like his take off.
He said the city has big-city resources and small-
town connections.
“We have some of the best of both worlds,” he said.Josh Greenberg, CTO and cofounder of Groove-
shark, said the city has been a great place to start his business.
“Gainesville has a lot going for it. It’s young. It’s 
healthy,” Greenberg said. “The business community is growing and thriving, even though some businesses have gone under.”Despite times, tech companies hiring
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
A months-long investiga-
tion led to the arrest of a man 
suspected of illegally accessing a UF employee’s electronic in-formation.
Officers from the Univer -
sity Police Department and Gainesville Police Department arrived at the home of Reynold Contreras, 31, at about 7 a.m. Tuesday, said Maj. Brad Bar -
ber, UPD public information officer. 
Police had an arrest warrant 
for Contreras and a search war -
rant for his home at 4175 NW 37th Terrace in Gainesville, ac-cording to a UPD news release.
Police arrested Contreras 
and took computer equipment from the house as evidence. 
Barber said he thinks Con-
treras and the UF employee were acquaintances. Contreras is not a UF em-
ployee or a student.
The investigation began after 
UPD received a complaint that someone was continually and illegally accessing the electron-ic employee resource account and email of a UF employee, 
according to the news re-lease.  
UPD De-
tective James Mabry led the inves-t i g a t i o n , which began in early fall, 
Barber said. 
According to the release, 
Contreras was arrested on the following felony charges: fraud-ulent use of personal identifica-tion information, accessing a computer system without au-thorization and disrupting the use of computer service.UPD makes arrest in 
hacking of UF email
Contreras
“You ask anyone in my company, and 
they say, ‘This is the best job I’ve ever 
had.’”
Agapitus Benjamin Lye
CEO of Trendy Entertainment4, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Cheerwine, a cherry-flavored soft drink, has been moderately popular in glass-bottled form among 
students.
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Though Solantic is moving its headquarters to Tennessee, this Solantic facility on the corner of North-
west 39th Avenue and Northwest 43rd Street is not in danger of closing.
� NO CLINICS ARE CLOSING 
IN FLORIDA.
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
In a move that Gov. Rick Scott 
called “disappointing” for the 
state of Florida, Solantic, Scott’s former chain of urgent care clin-ics, announced it will be moving its corporate headquarters to Ten-nessee.
Some Florida media outlets 
have noted the contrast between this announcement and Scott’s platform of job creation. But Paul Duncan, chair of UF’s Depart-ment of Health Services Research, Management and Policy, said the move will not be a cause of con-cern for students wanting to go into health care. 
No clinics are closing in Flor -
ida, so the job opportunities should still be there, he said.
“It seems unlikely that many 
jobs in the [urgent care] centers themselves will be lost,” Duncan wrote in an email. “Likewise, I don’t think the location of corpo-rate headquarters will impact the amount of care being delivered by the centers.”
Solantic, co-founded by Scott 
in 2001, has 32 urgent care clinics throughout Florida, and spokes-woman Mandy Villalva said all these centers will remain open. 
Scott sold the company in 
June to New York investment firm Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe.
The company’s corporate of-
fices are in Jacksonville. The city will retain some of the company’s executives, including those in marketing and sales, while the rest will be moved to Nashville, she said.
Solantic currently employs 
about 700 people in Florida. The company announced in August that it will be creating 50 new po-sitions for physicians, physician assistants and office staff state-wide. Solantic health clinics moving corporate headquarters from Florida
LAW ENFORCEMENT
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
A man with Alzheimer’s disease who 
went missing Monday evening from 
Gainesville was found Tuesday morning hundreds of miles from town in Fayette-ville, N.C.
Jack Hill, 83, was last seen in Gainesville 
at about 8:30 p.m. Monday at the Arby’s on Southwest 13th Street, said Cpl. Ange-lina Valuri, public information officer for the Gainesville Police Department.Earlier that day, he was seen on Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza at about 6 p.m. and at the McDonald’s at 201 NW 13th St. that afternoon. 
When he disappeared, he had last been 
seen wearing a green shirt, orange jacket, black socks and shoes and a beanie-style hat, according to a GPD flier posted while he was missing. 
After Hill’s family reported he was 
missing Monday, police issued a Silver Alert that was posted statewide. 
This system is used when a person with a cognitive impairment is missing. 
Hill has disappeared before — a five-
day trip  a few years ago ended when he was found in Virginia. 
He took the bus then, 
so police checked the Greyhound system this 
time to see if he had pur -
chased any tickets, Valuri said. 
He had — a ticket to Fayetteville from 
Miami.Local authorities were at the station 
when the bus arrived at 9:50 a.m. Tues-day.
“As soon as the bus pulled in, they 
found him,” she said. 
Members of Hill’s family were sent to 
bring him home.
Police don’t know how Hill made it 
from Gainesville to Miami after he was spotted at Arby’s on Monday night.
“We don’t know how he got down to 
Miami,” Valuri said. “Somebody probably picked him up and gave him a ride.”
Missing man with Alzheimer’s reappears next day in North Carolina
Cheerwine contains 
real cane sugar, no cola
this week it will also be dispensed 
at Fresh Food Company. 
The bottled version of the soda 
can be found at UF convenience stores like Little Hall Express and Graham Oasis.
“We wanted to see if there is a 
demand for a fountain version of Cheerwine with college students, and the University of Florida is our test school,” Jones said. 
Steven Klepac, 19, a UF forest 
resources and conservation major and sales associate at Graham Oa-sis, said that Cheerwine has been moderately popular with students, which costs about $2 a bottle. 
So far, UF convenience stores 
offer only the glass bottle and not the canned version of the soda. On-campus stores carry both the regular and diet options.
Cheerwine was originally cre-
ated in 1917 in Salisbury, N.C., by general store owner L.D. Peeler. 
Jones said the flavor in the soft 
drink has been the same since it was first made almost 100 years ago.
 It includes real cane sugar but 
no cola.
James Jackson, 21, a UF crimi-
nology senior, said he first discov-ered Cheerwine when he was on tour with his band last year.
“I’m really excited that now I 
can buy Cheerwine in Gainesville,” Jackson said. 
“Now, I don’t have to bribe 
people to bring me back a case when they go out of state.”CHEERWINE,
from page 1
“We wanted to see if there 
is a demand for a fountain 
version of Cheerwine with 
college students, and the 
University of Florida is our 
test school.”
Robbie Jones
Florida regional sales                   
manager for CheerwineHill
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
A human rights group said 
Tuesday it has filed claims with 
the United Nations seeking dam-ages on behalf of more than 5,000 Haitian cholera victims and their families.
The claims filed by the Boston-
based Institute for Justice and De-mocracy in Haiti argue that the U.N. and its peacekeeping force are liable for hundreds of millions of dollars for failing to adequately screen peacekeeping soldiers.
They cite a range of studies that 
indicate the infected soldiers caused the outbreak when untreated waste from a U.N. base was dumped into a tributary of Haiti’s most impor -
tant river.
“The sickness, death and ongo-
ing harm from cholera suffered by Haiti’s citizens are a product of the U.N.’s multiple failures,” the com-plaint reads. “These failures consti-tute negligence, gross negligence, recklessness and deliberate indif-ference for the lives of Haitians.”
Cholera has sickened nearly 
500,000 people and killed more than 6,500 others since it surfaced in Haiti in October 2010, according to the Haitian Health Ministry. 
Evidence suggests that the dis-
ease was inadvertently brought to Haiti by a U.N. battalion from Ne-pal, where cholera is endemic. 
A local contractor failed to prop-
erly sanitize the waste of a U.N. base, and the bacteria leaked into a tributary of one of Haiti’s biggest rivers, according to a study by a U.N. appointed panel.
Cholera spread throughout Haiti 
because of poor sanitation, and the country now has the highest chol-era infection rate in the world.
There had been no documented cases of the disease prior to its ar -
rival, and medical workers say the disease is likely to become endem-ic.
Cholera is caused by a bacteria 
found in contaminated water or food, and can kill people within hours through dehydration. It is easily treatable if caught in time.
The Institute filed the petition 
Thursday with the Office of the Secretary General in New York and with the claims unit for the mission in Port-au-Prince, said Brian Con-cannon, an attorney who is director of the Institute.
Concannon said he hoped the 
U.N. mission would set up a tribu-nal to evaluate the claims. 
He also said he hoped the U.N. 
force would create a lifesaving program that would provide sani-tation, potable water and medical treatment. He also said he wants a public apology.
“We’re obviously hoping that 
the U.N. will step up and do the right thing,” he said by telephone.
If that doesn’t happen, the group 
plans to file the claims in a Haitian court, he said.
The petitioners include families 
who saw breadwinners die from cholera, and the Institute said some families spent their life savings and went into debt to pay for funerals.The Institute is also seeking a 
minimum of $100,000 for each be-reaved family and $50,000 for each cholera survivor.
U.N. spokeswoman Sylvie Van 
Den Wildenberg said she was aware that a group was planning to file the complaint, but couldn’t con-firm that a claim presented to her was the same one officially received by the U.N.
“In any case, the petition, when 
it is received, should be transferred to the legal office and headquar -
ters,” Van Den Wildenberg said.
Moving forward on the case 
could be tricky.
The U.N. has immunity from na-
tional courts but “one would hope that the Secretary General would address this with great moral seri-ousness,” Ruth Wedgwood, a pro-fessor of international law and di-plomacy at Johns Hopkins’ School of Advanced International Studies, said after reading the petition. “It’s a lot of money but if the facts as al-leged as true it’s a serious harm.”
The U.N. force, known by its 
French acronym Minustah, arrived in 2004 following the ouster of then-President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
The mission’s mandate was 
renewed last month for another year, though troop numbers are be-ing reduced from almost 13,000 to 11,500.The renewal coincided with anti-U.N. protests in Haiti. Demon-strators accused the world body of doing more harm than good, citing the cholera outbreak and an unre-lated abuse scandal involving Uru-guayan sailors.
The peacekeeping mission has 
helped keep order in the country and ensured two peaceful transfers of power but some Haitians view the force as an affront to national sovereignty. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
AP Photo
Demonstrators dance around a fake coffin with the U.N. initials on it during a protest against the United 
Nations, in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on Oct. 19. Paul Farmer, a prominent Haitian health expert, said chol-era has sickened more than 450,000 people in a nation of 10 million and killed more than 6,000.
INTERNATIONALHaiti group demands UN pay damages for cholera outbreak� THE PROJECT WILL LAST 
FIVE YEARS.
JAVIER PEÑA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The National Science Foundation 
awarded a $5 million grant to UF 
education researchers, who are us-ing the money to revise science pro-grams in Florida middle schools.
UF researchers are focusing on 
a graduate degree program called Teacher Leadership and School Improvement, according to a UF news release. Through the five-year project, 40 middle school science teachers from 20 school districts will graduate with their master’s degree  in science education.
Teachers in the program will re-
ceive money to cover tuition, about $21,000, said Dr. Lynda Hayes, affil-iate faculty member at UF’s College of Education and director of P .K. Yonge Developmental Research School.
This money is funded by the 
grant, she said.
Hayes said graduates of the pro-
gram will become “Science Teacher Leaders,” who will train 400 oth-er middle school science teachers in their home dis-
tricts.
Hayes said 
retraining middle school teachers will help them increase students’ in-terest in biology, chemistry, physics and earth science.
“It’s not a text,” she said. “It 
brings to life a very interactive, hands-on science experience.” UF receives $5 million to 
revamp science education
Hayes
WOODHAVEN, Mich. — A 9-year-old girl 
cried Tuesday as she explained how she drove a 
full-size van in suburban Detroit while her father sat in the passenger seat after a night of drinking whiskey.
The girl said her dad, Shawn Weimer, asked 
her if she wanted to drive in the wee hours of Oct. 8.
“I said yeah, but I’d be a little scared,” she 
said.
Weimer, 39, was charged with child abuse after 
police in Brownstown Township stopped the van and found the girl behind the wheel. A judge will decide Nov. 15 whether he will stand trial.
The girl cried throughout her brief testimony. 
Judge Michael McNally tried to calm her and of-fered a soft drink before calling a recess.
Weimer sat at the defense table with his hands 
pressed together in front of his face.
His daughter testified that he drank half of a 
bottle of whiskey and threw the rest away earlier that night.
“Was your dad drunk?” assistant prosecutor 
Keisha Glenn asked.
“He told me he was,” the girl replied.The judge listened to a 911 call and also 
watched a portion of a surveillance video from a gas station where Weimer bragged about his daughter’s driving skills while she munched on a candy apple.
“Nine years old — 9,” Weimer said in the gas 
station. “We’re leaving and she’s driving. I’m drunk.”
Charles Girardot, a customer at the gas station, 
decided to call 911 and follow the van. He said the girl never swerved, stayed in her lane and even used turn signals before a police officer stopped her.
“She’s driving pretty good. I can’t believe it,” 
Girardot told a 911 dispatcher.
McNally delayed his decision so defense at-
torney David Steingold could file objections to the felony child abuse charge. Steingold acknowl-edged to reporters that a 9-year-old can’t legally drive in Michigan but said that’s not the issue.
To send Weimer to trial, the prosecutor must 
persuade the judge that his actions were likely to cause death or serious injury to his daughter.
“Possible, yes. Likely, no,” Steingold said after 
the hearing. “This young girl was very proficient” at driving small ATVs and mini motorcycles.
Glenn declined to comment.The judge allowed Weimer last week to resume 
seeing his daughter under certain conditions while the case is pending. The prosecutor had agreed to the visits but tried to change the deal Tuesday.
“It’s cruel to do that to the child,” McNally 
said, denying the request.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSGirl drives drunk father home
“We’re leaving and she’s driving. I’m 
drunk.”
Shawn Weimer
fatherReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Have you ever had Cheerwine?
Tuesday’s question: Have you ever had a 
close call with a bus? 
85 TOTAL VOTES67% YES
33% NOPrivate Eyes
Feds should not be 
tracking us with GPS 
In the 1980s, law enforcement officers in Minnesota used a beeper radio transmitter to track a man suspected of purchasing chloroform to make illegal drugs. The police 
tracked the suspect to his cabin in Wisconsin, where he was arrested. 
The man was arrested and eventually found guilty but chal-
lenged his conviction on the grounds that evidence was ob-tained in violation of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitu-tion. 
To put it simply, the Fourth Amendment dictates that law 
enforcement must obtain a search warrant before searching your home or belongings. The beeper used to track the suspect and subsequently obtain evidence necessary to arrest him was not approved by a search warrant. 
The Supreme Court, in the 1983 case United States v. Knotts, 
ruled that a warrant did not need to be obtained in order to track those suspected of crimes. The majority opined that peo-ple have no reasonable expectation of privacy when they travel on public thoroughfares. 
They also ruled that nothing in the Fourth Amendment pro-
hibited police from “augmenting the sensory faculties ... with such enhancement as science and technology afforded them.” 
Fast forward to today, the Supreme Court is considering a 
similar case involving the FBI placing a GPS tracking device on drug conspiracy suspect Antoine Jones’ car. 
The Knotts case sets a precedent that could lead the court to 
rule in favor of the Obama administration because it could be argued that a GPS device is simply an upgraded beeper. 
However, the court should reconsider this precedent and 
re-examine Fourth Amendment privacy rights. While the rul-ing would be narrowly tailored to the case at hand, one has to wonder what implications this would have for the tracking of other technologies by law enforcement. 
For instance, if technological “enhancements” exist, should 
police be allowed to hack into your personal GPS or the GPS on your phone without a search warrant? 
The argument that no one should expect privacy on “pub-
lic” roads falls through considering that the court has also ruled that people have a right to travel (Saenz v. Roe; Dunn v. Blumstein). 
The TSA and Department of Homeland Security violate our 
privacy when we travel by airplane or train. We have no choice but to drive on “public” roads. Will the court honestly rule that the only time we can expect a reasonable right to privacy is when we are traveling by foot or in our homes? 
If the court rules in favor of the government in this case, 
it will be another big blow to our Fourth Amendment rights. Requiring a warrant to track a suspect’s every move is in no way an  extreme measure; failing again to uphold our Fourth Amendment protections would be.
Everyone needs a strong support system
Sometimes, life can suck. 
Levity can quickly deteriorate into overwhelming 
inner sorrow within an instant. Happiness sometimes 
seems fleeting, although an occasional reality check is a 
good chance to grow as a person.
These events are far more tolerable if someone is there for 
you. Everyone needs a support system to make it through the lackluster and dreary moments in their lives.
They can make you laugh and smile or tell you that you 
can do anything you set your mind to. 
My family is the best support system I could ask for, es-
pecially my mom. Her birthday is tomorrow, so I wanted to commemorate her affect on my life in today’s column. 
I’ll be a good son and not reveal how old she is.This past weekend, we had a fight. It is funny because 
we were never actually in the same room.
I am truly sorry for all that I said. I let my anger get the 
better of me. 
The details are irrelevant. I think we both overreacted 
and misunderstood one another. 
I am always so appreciative for all that she has done for 
my brothers and me, even though I never say it enough. 
I never say thank you enough. I always fall short in that 
regard. My mom has deeply sacrificed for my brothers, and I could not be more grateful. 
I am not entirely sure if there is voluminous vocabulary 
to properly explain my love for her. It dwarfs Mount Ever -
est in Nepal and runs deeper than the Mariana Trench out in the Pacific Ocean.
My mom and I are incredibly similar in our personalities 
but typically diverge in our approaches to dealing with the mess life throws at us. 
Her will is unmatched by anything I have observed. Her 
perseverance has allowed her the latitude to trump all ob-stacles. 
Anyone inside or outside our family’s circle would find 
her fortitude and achievements remarkable. I admire her iron will the most.
People who are close tend to 
have a clashing of words. We in-advertently or regrettably some-times hurt each other’s feelings. We say things we do not mean, things we wish could take back. It happens.
However, it has never gotten 
in the way of a tightly woven re-
lationship. 
The whole family happens to be high-strung, indepen-
dent and full of adamant opinions on literally anything and everything.
It is astounding where debates head, and it always seems 
to be lightening round. 
My family has gone to hell and back. The presence of 
rude remarks, while not exactly healthy, will not drive us apart.
I think most people need a solid rock in their lives; other -
wise they are building their foundations on sand. You never know when the rains will come and wash away the house. 
We all need someone who will confront us when we are 
wrong. Someone who will fight for us when we are right but honestly points out our flaws. 
It is not out of duty or obligation. It is not out of com-
pulsion or coercion. It is not born from the bosom of guilt. Sacrifice is the purest form of love.
Sacrifice means to cast off one’s own self-interest to help 
another.
My mother, my brothers, my family and my closest 
friends have taught more than I have learned in any class-room. 
They stick to you like glue, even if sometimes you do not 
think you personally deserve it.
Nicholas Butler is a journalism junior at UF. His column 
appears on Wednesdays. 
Nicholas Butler
letters@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Gator Growl Seating Apology 
On behalf of Florida Blue Key, allow me 
to share my heartfelt appreciation to our ex-
tended Gator family for continuing to turn out and support Gator Growl. We hope you enjoyed Friday’s show that so many students worked tirelessly during the last year to pro-duce.  Gator Growl is an incredible and unique UF tradition. 
No other school in the country has a pep 
rally of this magnitude and stature, much less one run by students. During the last 80 years, Gator Growl has transformed from a simple pep rally to the elaborate production it is today . Our goal has always been, and always will be, to unite our fans, alumni and students in sup-port of our athletic teams and university .  
This year we moved the stage location to 
the east stands to bring the stage closer to the audience, provide a more comfortable setting and allow us to launch fireworks for the first time in several years. 
Unfortunately , we failed to foresee some 
problems with the seating arrangements re-quired to accommodate the stage’s new lo-cation. Ultimately , we had too few ushers to assist people in locating their assigned seats. Please let me apologize for any confusion or inconvenience this may have caused.  
We are addressing these issues to ensure 
that future Gator Growls do not face similar problems. Planning for next year’s show is al-ready underway and we look forward to im-proving the show by learning more from your experience.  
Please email us at suggestions@gatorgrowl.
org and let us know what you liked and what you didn’t like. 
Thank you for your support in making 
Gator Growl the nation’s largest student-run pep rally, and we look forward to hosting you again in the future.   
Craig Thompson
president of Florida Blue Key
n n n
Dining halls urged to honor Meatless 
Mondays
I imagine Gator Dining officials are all very 
excited about UF’s place in the final round in this year’s ranking of the most vegan-friendly colleges in the nation. If only those University of California Santa Cruz hippies would go away and let us win. Even if we lose, second place is pretty darn good, so congratulations.
As a concerned Gator who always likes to 
win, I thought I should do my duty and give you some pointers on how to make sure we take that top spot this year and make other schools fear our vegan prowess. Plus, just for fun, I’ve included some reasons why we should actually want to win this super cool award as the best college for students who, you know, don’t want to participate in the slaughtering of baby pigs. 
So, for starters, it’s kind of silly for you all 
to expect to win a most vegan-friendly college contest when on your self-described and su-perficially promoted Meatless Mondays, you guys still serve things like pepperoni pizza and lunch meat in your sandwich line. And the meatloaf you served this Monday? Is that irony? Apparently so. We’re good friends, so I know you wouldn’t do this, but from an out-sider’s perspective, it seems like your two on-campus dining halls don’t change that much on Meatless Mondays. It seems you all have mastered the public relations aspect of talk-ing the talk but just haven’t nailed that whole walking the walk thing. It’s just not fair to your competitor UC Santa Cruz, which has a dining hall go completely vegetarian each Monday.
But I want you to win. Don’t you guys remember when almost 
2,500 Gators publicly demanded last year that you all adopt a Meatless Monday policy? I hope you do. I presented each and every signature to you at our meeting in Decem-ber along with a dynamite campaign book complete with public endorsements from Ga-torWell Health Promotion Services, The Hu-mane Society of the United States, the Earth Day Network and the UF Office of Sustain-ability. 
And I know times are tough, especially in 
the food-service industry. The recession hit us all hard. People have less money to spend on, well, everything, so going out to eat is going to be an easy expenditure to cut. Luckily, a vegetarian and vegan diet can help your big, multimillion dollar wallet. Think about how much money a more vegan-friendly cafeteria could save just by buying an eggplant instead of, say, a pound of pork. Or think about how much money you all could spend on a lavish Christmas party from the money you’d save from buying more flour for waffles at the popular Sunday breakfast at The Fresh Food Company instead of buying bacon. 
But, really, when U.S. News released a re-
port this June that found 12 percent of college students are vegetarian or vegan (about 6,000 of those veg hippies at UF), I just feel bad UF doesn’t have the Meatless Monday in the two dining locations on campus it keeps promis-ing them. 
Gators, voting for the most vegan-friendly 
college in the nation ends Nov. 14. Vote at Peta2.org.
Jared Misner
campaign director for the Meat-free Mondays 
Campaign at UF
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
The Student Senate did not pass a bill that 
would have required the Supervisor of Elections 
to provide a sample ballot online two Fridays be-fore SG elections. 
Some senators suggested that a separate com-
mittee evaluate the bill. Senate President Andy Mason had previously said he would assemble a committee. 
Budget Committee Chairwoman Christina 
Bonarrigo said she approved of the changes to the elections rules but wanted them to be made all at once.
“It’s amazing, and we want to see it all put 
through,” she said.
Sens. Austin Brockmeier, Douglas Whitaker 
and Carly Wilson proposed the bill.
Wilson said there are 11 weeks of Senate meet-
ings left before the elections, and the Senate should not risk running out of time.
After the meeting, Mason estimated that the 
group would have about a month to revise the rules. 
Any changes would need two weeks for Sen-
ate approval followed by five weeks budgeted for approval from Mason and the UF administration before it can be implemented for spring elections.
Mason said he will announce Tuesday whether 
the committee will be made only of senators or also include students not in SG.
Mason said including non-SG students could 
be a good thing, but he said limiting the body to senators would also make sense because senators will be the ones deciding on the changes.
Wilson previously led a similar committee on 
SG transparency. She said during the meeting that it’s difficult to get things done quickly with the committee. She plans to attend the meetings, but she hopes younger members of the Students Party will be part of the decision-making.
“I absolutely think [online sample ballots] will 
fall through the cracks,” Wilson said.8, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
Alex Catalano / Alligator
Student Senate President Andy Mason said he will assemble a group to make 
changes to UF’s elections rules. 
Student Senate delays election rules reform billon CAmpus
ORIANA PAOLILLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
A panel discussing the intersection of 
sexual orientations and the contribution of 
Asian-Americans to society is being held today at 6:30 p.m. at Ustler Hall.
LGBT Stories: Queer in Asian America, 
is co-hosted by Asian Kaleidoscope Month and Pride Student Union.
“I’m transgender. The awkward-ness and false stereotypes are constantly around me,” said Andy Sun, a 19-year-old economics sophomore.
Sun, of Taiwanese origin, is part of the 
panel.,  
Other panel members include Nata-
lie Nguyen, the LGBT Program Assistant at the University of North Florida; Ernie Selorio Jr., the founder of a sexual minority youth group in Jacksonville; and gender rights activist and keynote speaker Pau-line Park.
Kristine Straker, the executive pro-
gramming director for Asian Kaleidoscope Month, said the event was designed to in-form people about cultural and family is-sues members of the LGBTQ community face daily. 
“The Asian community is very strict 
and not accepting of LGBTQ,” Straker said. “Putting them together will be very enlightening.”
People attending can ask questions af-
ter the discussion.
“I want to support everyone out there, 
and it is really important that they come out,” Sun said. “It is a gradual process, and it helps to have people to count on.”Panel to discuss acceptance of LGBT community in Asian culture
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
The Coast Guard has approved 
a plan to end cleanup along the 
Gulf Coast from the BP oil spill, a move officials said opens a new phase of work for BP — restoring areas damaged by one of the larg-est offshore spill in U.S. history.
According to the document 
obtained by The Associated Press on Tuesday, the plan “provides the mechanisms for ceasing active clean-up operations.”
In it, the Coast Guard spells out 
protocol for ending the cleanup. It has been going on since April 20, 2010, when the Deepwater Hori-zon exploded off the Louisiana coast.
Coast Guard spokeswoman Lt. 
Suzanne Kerver said the shoreline plan outlines “the standard for clean.”
She said about 10 percent of the 
Gulf Coast fouled by the BP spill remains to be cleaned.Coast Guard 
approves winding down of oil spill cleanupMARIA GALINDO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Soma Nwokolo became aware of the realities of racism 
after she moved to the U.S. from England when she was 10. 
“It’s not that I didn’t know I was black,” said Nwokolo, 
a 21-year-old Nigerian public relations senior. “It just didn’t 
matter.”
Despite learning about the history of slavery in the U.S. 
while in school, Nwokolo never fully realized the impor-tance of race until she joined  the UF Panhellenic Council, of which she is now executive vice president.
After she rushed for a Panhellenic sorority, her peers 
questioned her for not joining the traditionally black Na-tional Panhellenic Council. 
Nwokolo spoke about not fitting into the cultural bounds placed upon students when they come to UF at Gatorship’s “Out of the Box: Cultural Freedom and Limits” forum Tues-day night at the Graham Gallery.
Family, youth and community sciences 
junior Matt Davidson, and history senior Xavier Suarez, both 21, also shared their experiences.
Davidson, a white male, is an avid par-
ticipant in Black Student Union events and 
was named BSU Homecoming Duke in 2010. He is also a member of SAVANT, a leadership honorary organization mostly composed of minority students. 
He said he has realized that students feel their culture is 
heightened when they come to UF. “A lot of my friends that came to college from high school 
say, ‘Well, I wasn’t super black in high school, but now in college, I feel like I have to be,’” Davidson said.  
Suarez, on the other hand, decided to “branch out” by 
joining the Interfraternity Council after being raised in a Hispanic culture. 
However, he was drawn back to his roots, joining the His-
panic Student Association the Spring semester of his fresh-man year despite his fraternity brothers’ jokes about “some Hispanic meeting,” he said.
“I became president of HSA, and I won the respect of my 
[IFC] chapter,” Suarez said. “They saw that I really did put passion in whatever I did.”
Davidson said it’s important to “not put diversity inside 
of a box.”
“Diversity can be the experiences that make up who you 
are and your passions,” he said, “and many have nothing to do with your skin tone, where you’re from and your re-ligion.”Student forum addresses cultural identity, diversity at UF 
“It is a gradual process, and it 
helps to have people to count on.”
Andy Sun
economics sophomoreThree students guided the discussion  
nwokolo
10, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
 Free Online Housing Locator Service: Students can ﬁ  nd off 
campus housing, subleases, roommates, and information like 
rent, room size, location, etc. at this free online site. Go to http://housing.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu to use this resource.
Gator Guide to Off Campus Life: A free publication that pro-
vides tips and resources for ﬁ  nding the right apartment, bud-
geting info, safety tips, keeping your electric costs low, a map of the city and much more. To get a copy of the Gator Guide, visit OCL’s ofﬁ  ce at 311 Peabody Hall or visit our website at www.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu. 
 Monthly Newsletter: OCL sends a monthly electronic news-
letter to all off campus students. Topics include safety informa-
tion, monthly speciﬁ  c resources and opportunities, fun stuff and much more. If you would like to receive the OCL newslet-ter, visit the OCL website www.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu and click on the listserv link.Community Advocates student organization: The purpose 
of Community Advocates is to create a connection between 
University of Florida students, both on campus and in the Gainesville community. The CA’s host events such as Room-mate Mixers (a social event where you can meet other peo-ple looking for roommates), Pet-a-Palooza (learning the basics on being a pet-owner in Gainesville), and other events to help make your off campus experience the best possible. Commu-nity Advocates is sponsored by OCL. 
 Lunch Series: OCL hosts a panel discussion on new topics 
every month while providing a free lunch to both panelists 
and audience members.
 Learn More: Visit our website www.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu for in-
formation about Off Campus Life resources and services. Like 
us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter at UF Off Campus Life for daily updates and reminders of OCL events, tips and fun things going on in the community.
UF’s Off Campus Life advocates for your rights in the community and provides 
support services and education to better your off campus experience with the 
ultimate goal of helping you develop into a globally-conscious Gator. OCL aims to provide programs and services that will prepare you to be a great Gator neighbor, here in Gainesville or wherever the road may take you.
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF’s Off Campus Life. Off Campus Life, which is part of UF’s Division of Student Affairs, has been providing support services 
and resources to UF students living off campus since 2004. OCL’s support services and resources include:
Use the Off Campus Housing Locator Service 
at http://housing.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu.
Know your budget and choose a property that 
allows you to live within your means.Create a priority list. What do you care about 
most in a living space? Room size, rent, type of lease, type of community (large undergrad population, graduate students, local residents, etc.), location, proximity to campus or bus route…all these things are factors to consider in choosing a place to live. Write out a list of ideal Gainesville has an abundance of off campus housing options including apartments, condos, houses 
and rooms for rent, so take your time and do not feel rushed to sign a lease. Be sure to visit several properties in person and shop around before signing a lease. Take your time when looking for a place to live and follow the tips below for ﬁ  nding the right place for you:
CONTINUED ON PAGE 14
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011 § STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 11
12, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE § WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011 § STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 13
14, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE § WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
characteristics you want in your future living space 
and keep these criteria in mind when selecting a location.
 Choose a well-suited roommate or choose to live 
alone. Know what kind of person would best compli-
ment your personality and choose accordingly.
 Drive around and visit the place and neighbor-
hood you are looking to live in. 
 Take a tour of the complexes or houses that in-
terest you, ask questions, and get to know the com-
plex management or rental house landlord.
 Ask your friends for advice on where to live. 
Which properties worked well for them? Which 
didn’t?
 Visit the Gainesville Police Department website 
www.gainesvillepd.org and click on the Crime Re-
ports link to view crime statistics before signing a lease. Enter the address you’re interested in and all reported crime incidents will appear on the map. 
 Go back to the property at night and make 
some observations. Is it well lit, do you see the se-
curity guard that management promised, is the se-curity gate working, is it quiet enough to study, how close is the bus stop or parking to the complex or house, etc.?
 Once you’ve narrowed down your search, make 
an appointment with UF’s Student Legal Services 
by going to their website www.studentlegalservic-es.ufl.edu and completing the Client Intake Form. SLS can help you in reviewing the lease BEFORE you sign it. This is a great way to know what your legal responsibilities will be under that lease. 
 Gainesville is a GREAT place to rent and live so 
have fun with your search.CONTINUED FROM PAGE 10
CONTINUED ON PAGE 16
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF’s Off Campus Life. Make sure you read and fully understand all 
aspects of the lease before signing. A lease is a contract between you and your landlord that spells out specific details of your living arrangement. Leases often involve policies about pets, security and pet deposits, legal entry and other important information. Typi-cally, leases in Gainesville are for 12 months. If you will need your place for 10 months or less, talk with the management about whether they can provide you a short-term lease. There are two types of leases that are usually available, Joint Leases and Individu-al Leases.
Joint Lease: All roommates are held respon-
sible for the lease. If one person breaks the 
lease, the other roommates are held re-sponsible for paying the total rent. This tends to be the lease more prominent when rent-ing a house or single family dwelling. Individual Lease: Each person is held respon-sible for his or her own actions. For instance, if one roommate breaks the lease, that per-son is still responsible for paying their own rent. For most college students, individual leases are the best choice. Each person in the lease is responsible for his or her own ac-tions and not the actions of a roommate. Clauses to LOOK FOR in a lease: 
 Dates of occupancy
 Amount of monthly rent and the date 
it is due each month
 Amount of Application Fees, Security 
Deposit, Redecoration Fees and any oth-
er fees charged
 Responsibility for payment of utilities
 Responsibility for general maintenance 
and repairs
 Sublease: If you sign a 12 month lease, 
but think you may need the dwelling for 
a shorter period of time, make sure the lease allows you to sublease (rent your dwelling to another person who will as-sume the remainder of your lease) 
 Pet policy
 Automatic renewal clause
 Type of lease: Joint vs. Individual
Clauses to AVOID in a lease: 
 At management’s discretion, the ten-
ant may be asked to leave within three 
days
 Tenant waives all defects in the build-
ing
 Landlord shall not be responsible for 
injury to person, including tenant and 
guests, as a result of any cause WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011 § STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 15
16, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE § WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
Budgets
You can’t find the right place to live until you 
know how much you are able to spend. Here are some budget questions you should think about while touring a property:
1. What is the monthly rent?2. What’s included in that rent? Utilities, gas, 
water, cable, internet?
3. What’s not included in rent? What is the aver-
age monthly cost for gas, electric, water, garbage disposal? If management doesn’t know, contact GRU at www.gru.com and they can give you av-erage costs of utilities for the previous year.
4. Want to have a pet? Factor in the deposit 
and monthly cost for food, medical and groom-ing care.
5. Don’t forget the insurance. Before you sign 
your lease, call your insurance company and see how much it will cost monthly to insure your apartment or house.
6. Are you going to need fuel for your vehicle or 
are you going to use the bus? Factor in transpor-tation/car maintenance costs to your budget.
7. How much will you spend monthly on gro-
ceries or on a meal plan?
8. Have some fun! Don’t spend so much on 
rent that you don’t have money for leisure time.
9. What do you spend on clothing, shoes and 
accessories? 
10. How much money can you save every 
month? It’s really good to save some money ev-ery month to cover unexpected emergency ex-penses. Even $20 a month saved is good. Every little bit counts.
To help you with your budget, OCL has a 
budget spreadsheet in the Gator Guide that can be found online at www.offcampus.ufl.edu/gatorguide.php. CONTINUED FROM PAGE 14
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF’s Off Campus Life. Both personal and property safety is important as you search for off 
campus housing. Before signing a lease, Off Campus Life recom-mends you check the crime stats of an area before moving there. A free service called Crime Reports is available on the Gainesville Police Department’s website. Crime Reports allows you to see all re-ported crime in a certain area. Go to www.gainesvillepd.org, click “Crime Reports” on the right-hand side, and enter the address of interest to see local incident data.
Below are five tips to use when looking at safety during your apartment search:
1. Go back to the complex at night. How do you feel? How does the environ-
ment seem? Is the place well-lit and populated or dark and isolated?
2. Does the property have working security gates and/or guards?
3. Check for dead bolts on the outside door, locks for individual doors, alarm 
systems, etc. and ask lots of questions about the security. Is there an extra charge for a security system?
4. Has there been crime in the area recently? What actions have been done to 
prevent crime from happening?
5. Don’t forget about purchasing some Renter’s Insurance to protect you and 
your stuff from the unexpected.
If you are thinking about renting a 
house or apartment, Renter’s Insur-
ance provides important coverage for both you and your possessions. A stan-dard Renter’s Policy protects your per-sonal property in case of theft or dam-age and may pay for temporary living expenses if your rental is damaged (including loss of use). It can also shield you from personal liability. Anyone who leases a house or apartment should consider this type of coverage. 
Talk with your parents before getting 
your own renter’s policy. If you are still financially dependent on your parents or a family member and they own a home, they might be able to cover you under their homeowner’s policy. Some homeowner policies will cover a dependent’s rental property while in college. 
There are several types of Residential 
Insurance policies. Read your policy information carefully and ensure you have full coverage. Policies should in-clude the following items: • Fire or lightning 
• Windstorm or hail • Explosion • Aircraft • Vehicles • Smoke • Vandalism or malicious mischief • Theft • Damage by glass or safety-glazing material that is part of a building • Falling objects • Water-related damage from home utilities • Electrical surge damage
Floods, earthquakes, and hurri-
canes aren’t on the list.
If you live in an area prone to one 
or more of the three, you’ll need to buy a separate policy or a rider. 
In areas where hurricanes can pose 
a threat, you might also need to buy a separate rider to cover wind dam-age. 
Ask your insurance agent about this 
extra coverage. 
Gainesville is prone to hurricanes 
and some areas flood. Tenant is responsible for all repairs to premises 
 Landlord may enter dwelling without notice
 Landlord has a lien (a legal claim on the prop-
erty of another as security for the payment of a 
debt) on all personal property of tenant
 A great University of Florida resource avail-
able to full-time students is Student Legal Services. 
For any questions on your lease, visit the Student Legal Services website www.studentlegalservices.ufl.edu and set up an appointment with a lawyer to help review it BEFORE you sign it. 
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011 § STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 17
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-21/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600$99 Move In Special!352-372-7555FrederickGardens.com12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 19
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 THFREE Cable with HBOAll the amenities & FREE tanningGated, PET FRIENDLYTheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.445512-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Reduced to $1595. Avail now or Jan 352-665-8166 lv msg.   11-23-11-50-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381     11-10-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1750/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    11-15-11-20-2
● Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 3 blocks to UF  
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
● 3BD/1BA House - 2046 NW 31 PL
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
11-16-11-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2
Close to UF, $570/month 2BR with 
2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098    11-18-11-15-2
3 or 4BR/1.5BA CONDO
2116 SW 70th Terr. Available anytime. $700/
mo. (First & Last)  Call 352-514-9698    11-9-11-5-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155012-7-11-19-2LIVE CLOSE. PAY LESS.
PARKING GALORE. One mile to UF.Roomy 1, 2 & 3 bedrooms. W/D avail.H2O&gas incld. Cheap GRU bills.Country Village 373.2700    11-17-7-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    12-7-11-18-2
Cabana Beach Sublease 2/2
Available now to Aug 2012,
$509/mo each, Furnished W/Dcall  352-552-1757    11-23-11-14-3
$400.00 sublease avail. in a 3/3. All inclusive 
and furnished.Bathroom is private. Females only. Available spring 2012. Contact 386.546.6315    11-16-11-5-3
sublease available now til 6/25/11. 1 bedroom 
in a 3 bedroom townhouse at the woodlands apartments w/ private bathroom and 2 walkin closets. $530 month utilites included except elec. 352-256-0096.    11-10-2-3
DISTRICT ON 62ND
1BR/1BA available now in 3BR/3BA through June 2012. $412/mo, furnished, W/D incl. Call 352-514-2942    11-16-11-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    11-9-11-9-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
11-16-11-10-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
20, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
11-30-11-61-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-1203 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      11-10-11-77-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.comThis newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 ●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14
Legal Secretary/Receptionist. $9/hour. F/T. 
Needs to be responsible, diligent, and de-pendable. Call 352-371-4000.   11-16-11-15-14
ATTTENTION STUDENTS
Part time help needed at Westgate Home Sales. Please contact Matt for details 352-378-2453 x 19   11-9-11-10-14
Cleaning/Organizing person for busy family. 
Hours flexible, $12/hr. Email qualifications to; ladygatoruke@aol.com                 11-10-5-14
Part time yard, home and office work, self 
motivated students only. Start $10/hr. Call Sebastian 352-591-3000               11-9-4-14
Gainesville Regional Utilities
is looking for a
Temporary Part-Time Energy Analyst 
Have a passion for conservation;
great one-on-one customer service skills; 
major course work in science, math,
engineering or building construction?
Apply today at www.cityofgainesville.org
AA/EOE/DFWP Employer.
11-14-11-5-14
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 21
Marketing Ass't/Telemarketer
PT position with flexible hoursFriendly, professional officeEmail resume, cover letter to:marc@sextonandschnoll.com    11-15-11-5-14
Sleep Center Superstores is seeking to hire 
motivated, friendly, dependable, intelligent people for SALES/DELIVERY position(s). Candidates must APPLY IN PERSON. No phone calls please. 4994 N.W. 39th Avenue, 32606. In Magnolia Parke.    11-15-11-5-14
SERVERS
Experienced & friendly. Weekends & eve-nings. Be off for the holidays. Apply in person 2 - 5pm NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St.    11-16-11-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 
1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-15
Tutoring all subjects and all levels. $20/
hour. Available immediately in subjects from Algebra to Differential Equations to Physics, Statistics, or Chemistry. Call 863-430-5472.11-10-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and 
Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi-vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.    11-22-30-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Ride Horses for a Great Workout and Even Greater Fun! There's a ladies only exer-cise class now forming. We'll ride twice a week through a state forest for two hours. Interested? There are limited openings, con-tact kathy at 352-443-0273 or emailhorseclassbykathy@gmail.com.   11-15-11-4-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Best religion? NO religion!
Tet to know your Creator.See why the Bible is uniqueTry You Tube: ChuckMissler What is Truth?     11-18-11-8-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  M-R, November 14 – 17  from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions on M & W, Math on T & R.  Call 392-2010 to register and learn the room location.    11-14-4-20
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Beisel Honored
Florida swimmer Elizabeth Beisel was named the 
SEC’s Female Swimmer of the Week on Tuesday. Read more about her at alligatorSports.org. Young, Beal Getting Early Recognition
Florida sophomore center Patric Young and freshman guard Brad Beal were named to the Naismith Award Preseason Watch List on Monday. The award is given to college basketball’s player of the year. 
Grace VanDeGrift said UF must 
prepare for a physical race at the NCAA South Regional. See Story at alligatorSports.org.Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Junior Sam Robey replaced sophomore Jonotthan Harrison at center after halftime against Vanderbilt, and he worked with the first team in practice on Monday. 
GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
 
After replacing sophomore center Jonot-
than Harrison on Saturday, junior Sam Robey 
took the ﬁrst-team reps in Monday’s practice.
Harrison was pulled against Vanderbilt 
when one of his snaps sailed over senior quar -
terback John Brantley’s head, resulting in a loss of 21 yards.
Harrison’s snaps were slightly off target for 
the majority of the game.
Saturday’s starter against South Carolina is 
yet to be determined.
“We’re not really sure how this is going to 
play out yet,” offensive coordinator Charlie Weis said. “One thing we’re not going to do is just stand pat.”
Weis added that Harrison’s inability to ac-
curately snap the ball threw off the timing of the offense, both in terms of the run game and pass protection.
Harrison, who played primarily at guard 
before switching positions during spring 
practice, could poten-tially be used at guard if Robey starts at center, Weis said.
Sophomore guard Kyle Koehne said he 
does not expect to start this week. 
Weis said senior guard Dan Wenger would 
likely be ready to play after leaving UF’s game against Vanderbilt last week with an undis-closed injury.
Joyer progressing: Freshman fullback 
Hunter Joyer is coming off of his busiest game of the season and could take on an even bigger role in the future.
Joyer played more than 30 snaps Saturday, 
all without a mental error, Weis said.
“His arrow is pointing way up,” Weis said. 
“He is still ﬁguring it out, but he’s a football player. He has good football intelligence. He’s physical, and he’s not even playing as physical as he can yet.”
At 5-foot-10, 242 pounds, Joyer’s combina-
tion of size and speed is the reason Weis could envision using him as a “pound-it runner” in the powerful, downhill system UF would like Robey working with first-team offense at center
Brantley’s injury saved Florida against Vandy
Florida escaped utter embarrassment at 
the hands of Vanderbilt on Saturday, and fans have no one to thank more 
than Commodores linebacker Archie Barnes.
You may not remember Barnes’ perfor -
mance in The Swamp — he had just four tack-les — but he was responsible for the hit on John Brantley that knocked the quarterback out of the game in the fourth quarter.
If not for that hit, and subsequent bruise 
to Brantley’s throwing arm, Florida loses to Vanderbilt for the ﬁrst time in 20 years, and 
the Gators fall below the .500 mark for the ﬁrst time since a 1-2 start in 1992.
Prior to that play, Florida’s offense was in a familiar situ-ation, once again struggling to move the ball following a strong start to the game.
After taking a 
17-0 lead into the 
half, the Gators managed just 59 yards of of-fense in three possessions before Brantley’s injury. Florida had a pair of ﬁve-play drives 
that ended in punts and a 10-play drive that resulted in a ﬁeld goal.
Meanwhile, Vanderbilt’s offense was get-
ting into a groove. The Commodores had al-ready tacked on two second-half touchdowns, and the Gators’ defense showed no signs of slowing them down.
But then Brantley got hurt and freshman 
Jacoby Brissett took over.
Florida, pinned at its own 6-yard line, 
needed to do something to stave off a pesky Vandy team.
The Gators stuck to the ground attack, 
gaining 18 yards before the game’s biggest play.
On third and 7, Brissett took the snap from 
center Sam Robey, rolled to his right to evade The Tom green Show� GATORS HAD 36 BOARDS 
IN EXHIBITION WIN.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
After the guard-laden Gators 
proved in an exhibition they can 
put up impressive numbers from the 3-point line, the focus this week is showing they can pull down enough rebounds when they miss.
“When you shoot the ball 
well it cures a multitude of sins,” coach Billy Donovan said. “But what happens  when you don’t shoot the ball well? Sometimes those things now are a lot more exposed.”
Chief among Florida’s hid-
den transgressions during last Thursday’s 114-57 win against Catholic was a lack of presence rebounding the ball.
Although UF made 20 threes 
on 50 percent shooting, its domi-nance failed to carry over to the defensive glass, as the squad managed just one more rebound (23) than the Cardinals (22).
Florida ﬁnished with a 36-31 
overall edge thanks to seven-re-bound performances from Patric Young and Casey Prather. 
“We’re not a long, big, strong 
athletic team with unbelievable size, so we’re not going to be a team that just all the sudden is going to be a great rebounding team,” Donovan said.
Florida will face a much taller 
test against Jackson State on Fri-day . The Tigers have two players taller than 6-foot-8 — the height of the largest Cardinals center –— in 6-foot-9 Raymond Grego-ry and 7-foot-2  Jamarious Sykes.
Instead of looking for more 
production down low, Donovan wants his guards to get more in-volved. He said he expects Ken-ny Boynton, Mike Rosario and Erving Walker to bring in four to Rebounds 
a priority 
for small 
UF team
See Foo TBALL, p Age 24
See Tom, p Age 24See hoopS, p Age 24
Tom green
twitter: @tomas_verdeUF Fo otballJOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
Rick Chapman did not want to stay in Si-
beria. 
It was cold and dreary, even decaying and 
frozen in certain areas, and the country was 
still recovering from the aftermath of the fall of the Soviet Union two years earlier. 
As he recalls, “The brand new buildings 
looked like they were starting to fall down as soon as they were put up.”
But his wife, Lynn, told him he might as 
well remain there if he did not return home to Silver Spring, Md., with their new daughter.
  
The couple was looking to adopt for the 
second time and became intrigued one night in February 1993 while watching the news. There was a story about two sisters who had traveled to Russia so each could adopt a child.
Rick and Lynn decided to look into adopt-
ing from Russia. Through the organization, Families Adopting Children Everywhere, they got the name of a local woman named Diana V oith, a native of Russia who became an American citizen and helped facilitate more than 20 adoptions from Russian orphanages.  
The Chapmans contacted Voith, and she 
went through the necessary steps to find a child that met the Russian requirements for adoption. She found a match named Svetlana Ivanovna Makarova. Rick and Lynn went to Voith’s house to learn more.
“She had a couple of small pictures of just 
the cutest little kid you’d ever seen,” Rick said. 
They decided then to go through with it.When the Chapmans first learned about 
Svetlana, they found she went by “Sveta” in the orphanage. Lynn did not want to change her name to something that sounded totally differ -
ent, so she settled on Sarah as a new first name.  
Today, Sarah Svetlana Chapman is far from Si-beria. She is a senior midfielder for the Florida soccer team.
  
Rick, an oceanographer at Johns Hopkins 
University, was already traveling to Moscow in March of 1993 for business.  
He got to Moscow a week early to finalize 
paperwork with the Ameri-can embassy and then flew 
to the city of Angarsk in southern  Siberia, where Sarah’s orphanage was located.
While the country was not in great shape, 
Rick was impressed with Sarah’s quarters.
“The Russian orphanage was clean, well 
lit, well heated, and the children were well fed and well cared for,” Rick said.  “It really was a nurturing environment for kids.”
But during his third visit with Sarah, when 
she introduced him to some of her classmates, he could tell the children knew there was a better life to be had elsewhere. Sarah intro-duced her soon-to-be father to the class as, “my papa.”
Said Rick: “They all wanted me to take 
them home.”
The two then flew back to Moscow where 
Rick in what was Sarah’s first time on a plane. When she looked out the window she began to cry, but Rick could not calm her down. An-other passenger who spoke Russian did.
“I’m sure at the time in her little 3-and-a-
half-year-old brain she probably thought I was kind of dumb because I couldn’t speak her lan-guage,” Rick said. “I spoke gibberish to her.” 
  
There was never a “big talk” in the Chap-
man household.
Although Sarah has no recollection of her 
journey to America, Rick and Lynn never had to sit her down and break the news that she was not their biological daughter.
“I just have always naturally known,” Sar -
ah said. “I couldn’t ever tell you the day my parents told me, ‘Hey, you’re adopted.’”
Sarah quickly felt comfortable in the U.S. 
She only knew Rick at first and was shy around everyone else, but that did not last for long.
“Within a few days it was sort of an amaz-
ing transformation,” Rick said. “Her personal-ity just exploded. She just became this super happy, outgoing, happy child.”
Sarah picked up English within a few 
months, but her parents still wanted her to re-tain her Russian skills. Rick invited a Russian scientist over for dinner one night. To Rick and Lynn’s surprise, Sarah cried when she heard Russian. That language meant a life with no family.
“My orphanage was good, clean, healthy, 
and they treated me like a great kid,” Sarah said. “But I think the understanding that I didn’t have a family really upset me, and then finally I got that family so it washed away.”
Sarah was proud to be different. She told 
strangers, “I’m adopted,” or, “I’m Russian.”
“I was a funny little kid,” Sarah said.
  
Like most people, Sarah retains a few typi-
cal childhood memories from after the first three years of her life.  
She remembers learning how to ride a bike 
and the day she demanded that her mom take the training wheels off.  There were the visits to her grandparents’ home, and even though he passed away while Sarah was still young, she recalls getting to sit on her fraternal grand-father’s lap.
“I feel like I was that little kid wanting to 
have a family so badly, and I finally got a fam-ily and they gave me the world.”
A big part of that world was sports. One of the first times Lynn remembers see-
ing Sarah smiling and having fun was when she got to go outside and play with any kind of ball. 
Due to the constant cold temperatures, the 
kids at Sarah’s orphanage were rarely permit-ted to go outside. 
When she was old enough to participate in 
organized sports, Sarah played soccer, basket-ball and baseball. She wanted to play football, but there was no league for girls.
  
In addition to soccer, Sarah excelled in div-
ing and basketball throughout middle and high school. But to her coaches, her athletic ability was not what stood out.
“The first thing that caught my eye about 
her was her smile,” said David Greene, Sarah’s coach for the Bethesda (Md.) Soccer Club dur -
ing her four years in high school.
It was Sarah’s vibrant personality within 
the game that made her stand out. However, Greene recognized certain things she did that could not be taught. She was able to see the game well because she dribbled with her head up, and she possessed an explosive first step.
Greene said that once she combined these 
natural gifts with a desire to be great, her po-tential was within reach.
“She had the athletic ability, but I just had 
to teach her how to be a good soccer player,” Greene said. “When she made the decision to be a good soccer player, you could see that she was going to be able to pretty much play any-where.”
Her work paid off when she was noticed 
at an Olympic Development regional event in Miami by one of the coaches who she would play for at the next level, Florida assistant coach Alan Kirkup.
He noticed Sarah had the ability to create 
and get her teammates involved and saw she possessed great technical skill.
But there was one thing about Sarah that 
stood out to Kirkup beyond anything else.
Her smile. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 23
Courtesy to the Alligator
This photo of Sarah Chapman, age 3, is 
the first look Rick and Lynn got of their soon-to-be adopted daughter. Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida midfielder Sarah Chapman (center) is presented a framed jersey during Flori-da’s Senior Day on Oct. 23 as parents Rick (right) and Lynn (left) look on. 
From Russia With Love  
Chapman’s journey to UF began a world away
“I was that little kid wanting 
to have a  family so badly, and 
I finally got a family and they 
gave me the world.”
 
- Sarah Chapman
to develop.
“He could deﬁnitely be one 
of those one-back, stand-up 
guys that the defense is getting hit harder than they’re hitting,” Weis said.
Back in action: Brantley 
looked “pretty good” in prac-tice Tuesday after sitting out Monday with a right arm in-jury, Weis said.
“He probably could’ve 
practiced yesterday , but we just thought we got two things out of that,” Weis said. 
“He got more rest and the 
other guys got more work, so that worked out for everyone. But he took almost all the reps today.”Senior running back Chris 
Rainey was also back in prac-tice Tuesday after missing the game against Vanderbilt with a sprained ankle.
Weis implied Rainey would 
be able to play come Saturday.
“It doesn’t look like a game-
time decision,” Weis joked. 
Uncertain future: Running 
back Jeff Demps, who report-edly debated pursuing a pro-fessional track career in the offseason, said he hasn’t de-cided what he will do after this season.
He has carried 70 times for 
494 yards and six touchdowns this year and likely has a future in the NFL, but he has also been timed at a wind-aided 9.96 sec-onds in the 100-meter dash.
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@
alligator.org.Brantley, Rainey back 
at practice Tuesday24, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2011
FootBALL,
from page 22
Donovan wants guards to rebound
ﬁve boards a night.
Against Catholic, only Boynton 
met his quota with four rebounds. 
“We did so many good things of-
fensively, and we actually defended 
well, too, but if we just give up the rebound then that kind of defeats the purpose,” Walker said.
After Southeastern Conference 
Player of the Year Chandler Parsons averaged 7.8 rebounds last season, Donovan is putting pressure on 
UF’s new starting swingman, fresh-man Brad Beal.
“Coach Dono-
van has been on my head ever since our scrim-
mage game,” Beal said. “I have to take the initia-
tive.”
At 6-foot-3, 207 pounds, Beal is UF’s largest guard but was only able to snag one rebound in 24 minutes before fouling out .  
Beal had 20 points and ﬁve as-
sists, but Donovan expects him to grab at least ﬁve rebounds, too.
“Clearly, Brad is the best re-
bounder from that position,” Dono-van said. “He’s got to do a better job getting in there, because he’s capable.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.
Hoops , from page 22two defenders and heaved a pass down the sideline to 
a well-covered Frankie Hammond.
Flag.Vandy’s Sean Richardson committed pass inter-
ference, and we all know what happened next: Jeff Demps broke safety Kenny Ladler’s ankles and put Florida up by an insurmountable two scores.
Hindsight being 20/20, Brissett’s play was smart. 
Teammates have praised him for it, even.
“I was ecstatic,” guard Kyle Koehne said. “He did 
a great job making people miss and keeping the play alive.”But in actuality, the play was far from smart. It was a forced throw, one that freshmen tend to 
make, and one a veteran like Brantley wouldn’t think to attempt in that situation. Brantley, assuming he would have been able to evade a pass rush on a bum ankle, likely would have thrown the ball away. 
Florida would have had to punt. Vandy, in all like-
lihood, would have scored the go-ahead touchdown. And the Gators would have had to cope with the stigma of a 4-5 record and a loss at the hands of the Commodores.
But Florida didn’t lose, because Brissett was in the 
game to make that “heads-up” play — and Gators fans can thank Archie Barnes for that.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.tom , from page 22
Donovan
