We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 60 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida pitcher 
Anthony DeSclafani 
(right) surrendered 
the game-winning 
run as UF fell 4-3 
to UCF on Tuesday 
night. The Gators 
held a 3-2 lead 
entering the 
final frame.
See Story, Page 17.
MASON, Ohio (AP) — A police report says 
25-year-old Ryan James Stephens was charged 
with teasing a police dog in the Cincinnati sub-urb of Mason. Officer Bradley Walker wrote that he heard the K9 dog barking uncontrolla-bly inside his patrol car while he was investi-gating a car crash early Sunday morning. 
Walker says Stephens was making barking 
noises and hissing at the animal.
Stephens said “the dog started it” when 
asked why he was harassing the animal. Man arrested for barking at police dog
Sunny
77/53FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 17n Our “Living Will” Contest ends 
tomorrow night!  Submit your 
entires to facebook.com/alligato -
radvertising or email them to so -
connor@alligator.org. Winners will 
receive prizes to Mother’s Pub 
and Sports Marketing and  will be 
announced in Grad Tab, running 
on Monday, April 11th. See our 
ad online for more information.
Flutey 
Forgiveness
Actors reherse 
“The Magic 
Flute,” a clas -
sic German 
opera about 
failure and 
forgiveness 
written by Mo -
zart, Tuesday 
night in the 
Philips Center. 
The opera will 
be performed 
Thursday and 
Saturday. See 
Story, Page 9.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
For more than 50 years, Dr. W. 
Jape Taylor watched the UF Col-
lege of Medicine grow from a start-up school to one that is well estab-lished in the medical community. 
Taylor, who joined the staff in 
1958 as its first chief of cardiology, died in his sleep March 22 at age 86.
He left behind a legacy at UF 
as one of its finest professors. Throughout his teaching career, he was known as one of the toughest and best teachers in the college. “He was a tough bedside physi-
cian because he demanded that you know what you were doing when you presented a case,” said Mark Barrow, a retired physician who was a member of the class of 1960, the first class of students to gradu-ate from UF’s medical program. 
The biggest lesson Barrow said 
he learned from Taylor was to com-pletely concentrate on a patient when he was talking to him or her and to never let his mind wander during the conversation. 
Barrow recalled seeing his for -
mer teacher at a class reunion last fall and how emotional the experi-ence was. 
“We were all extremely close 
and held him in the very high-est regard,” Barrow said. “A lot of the people hadn’t been back for 50 years, and they hugged him and 
kissed him.”
Taylor was born in 1924 in 
Booneville, Miss. He attended Yale 
University as an undergraduate student at 16 before earning a med-
ical degree from Harvard Medical 
School in 1947.
He didn’t originally plan to be-
come a doctor, said Dr. Michael 
Good, dean of the College of Medi-
cine, in an email to faculty and staff 
announcing Taylor’s death. Medical school icon dies
SEE DOCTOR, p AGE 8By KRISTIN LOpOpOLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
If you’re going to see comedian Daniel Tosh in the O’Connell 
Center on Wednesday, bring your Gator 1 ID.
Although the show was originally to be open to 8,000 peo-
ple, Student Government Productions and Accent announced 
last week that only 4,900 UF students and members of the fac-
ulty will be permitted to attend.
Tosh, who is used to performing for crowds of about 2,000, 
said he is uncomfortable performing in front of that many peo-
ple, said Student Government Productions 
Chairman Kyle Calhoun.
He said because Tosh wanted the at-
mosphere to be smaller, Calhoun decided to limit the show to UF students only.  
This is the first time the organization has 
had to place a limit on a crowd.
“This sucks,” Calhoun said.
The free tickets will be distributed on a 
first-come-first-served basis beginning at 7 
p.m. The show will begin at 8 p.m.
Calhoun said Tosh is one of the most-demanded and suc-
cessful college acts. He has performed at more than 700 cam-puses across the nation.
The comic is most famous for making fun of popular You-
Tube videos on his Comedy Central show, “Tosh.0.” He has also made appearances on “The Late Show with David Letterman,” “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” and “The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.”  
Tosh will get $66,000 for his performance.Crowd limited 
for Daniel Tosh
STUDENT LIFE
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Jake Gipson and Matt Wercin-
ski won a national championship 
last year by a 9-ounce margin.
This year, they hope to take 
home another title.
Gipson, a recent UF graduate, 
and Wercinski, a senior general business major, will be defending the championship title in the sec-ond National Guard FLW College 
Fishing National Championship on Thursday through Saturday.
The competition is hosted by 
Murray State University in Ken-
tucky and the winners will receive $100,000 in cash and prizes.
Last year, the UF team brought 
home $25,000 in scholarship money for the university, $50,000 to the bass club, of which both men are members,   and a boat as 
victory prizes. 
“It was pretty awesome to 
win,” Gipson said. “And it was UF to defend title at  
fishing championship
SEE FISHING, p AGE 8Tosh
He joined the staff in 1958
Jasmine Earls / AlligatorNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 60 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Safid Deen, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Greek Celebration: Glenti
Thursday, 7 p.m.
Thomas Center, 302 NE 6th 
Avenue
Celebrate the Greek culture and Gainesville’s Greek com-munity with a traditional glen-ti, featuring a dance perfor -
mance by the Greek-American Student Association, live mu-sic by the Greek band, Ellada, and traditional Greek delica-
cies (mezedes). Admission is 
free and open to everyone.  
The event is sponsored by the Center for European Studies, GASA, and the Center for 
Greek Studies.
“A Touch Away” Screening
Thursday, 6 p.m.
UF Hillel
“A Touch Away” is a 2006 
Israeli television mini-series that has been described as a kind of “Romeo and Juliet” 
story, focusing on the relation-
ship of a young, nonreligious  Jewish immigrant from Russia who falls in love with a young woman who is part of the 
city’s Orthodox community.  
Krav Maga
Thursday, 7 p.m.
UF HillelCome join UF Hillel for the 
Israeli self-defense class. 
Make sure to wear sneak-ers and exercise clothes.  
Torah on Tap
Thursday, 9 p.m.  
Back porch of Leonardo’s Pizza  
Come join Rabbi Daniel Wolnerman and the UF Hillel Program Directors for free 
beer, pizza and great conver -
sation. 
The Kickoff Block Party
Friday, 11:30 a.m.  
Institute of Black Culture
Celebrate the end of the year 
with food, a live DJ, games 
and giveaways. 
Tango Class & Social
Friday, 8 p.m.308-B W University Ave. UF Argentine Tango Club of-
fers classes every week. No 
partners or experience neces-sary. Come to learn, dance or just watch. Admission is $5 for the public and free for UF 
students. 
Pancake Breakfast
Saturday, 8 a.m. to 10 a.m.Gator’s Dockside on 
Newberry RoadEnjoy a delicious pancake breakfast for a great cause. UF Circle K International is 
hosting this benefit for the 
Reichert House, a local youth academy for at-risk boys. For  $6, breakfast includes two 
eggs, two pancakes, two piec-
es of bacon or sausage and a drink. Tickets available at the tor.org. Please model your 
submissions after above 
events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
LOCAL
Funeral service for student 
scheduled for Thursday
Tucker Obie McCarty, a UF 
student from St. Augustine, died 
Saturday night in Columbia 
County when his truck swerved 
off the road and flipped. He was 21 years old.
McCarty was a junior major -
ing in food science and human nutrition. He graduated from Pedro Menendez High School in St. Augustine.
McCarty and a friend were 
headed back to Gainesville af-ter a fishing trip. His friend survived the crash with minor injuries, according to a Florida 
Highway Patrol report.
A visitation will be held to-
day from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. at St. Johns Family Funeral Home in 
St. Augustine. The funeral will be Thursday at Anastasia Bap-tist Church in St. Augustine at 10 a.m.
— ALEX ORLANDO
NATIONAL
Neb. man accused of using 
vacuum to steal coins
LINCOLN, Neb. — Police in 
Lincoln, Neb., say they believe 
they have nabbed the vacuum 
bandit.
The Lincoln Journal Star re-
ports police on Tuesday ticketed 
a man they say used a vacuum 
to suck quarters out of several 
apartment laundry machines. 
The man was caught on sur -
veillance camera on March 4. Photos show a man entering the 
laundry room with a backpack, 
which contained a vacuum. 
The man pries open the coin 
tray, plugs in the vacuum and 
sucks out the change.
Police say 40-year-old Wil-
liam Logan, of Lincoln, was cit-ed for suspicion of misdemeanor 
theft. 
Officials say he no longer had 
possession of the vacuum.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSdoor. For more information email mmcgehe@ufl.edu.  
Electric Contra
Sunday, 4 p.m.Rion Ballroom
The Contra Dancing Club 
hosts an “electric contra” featuring the band Full Circle and caller Dana 
Parkinson. No partner or ex-
perience needed. Entrance is $5 for students and $8 for everyone else. 
Serving It Up for Special 
Olympics FloridaSunday, 4 p.m.Southwest Rec Center Sand Volleyball Courts
Charity beach volleyball 
tournament with all pro-ceeds benefiting the Special Olympics of Alachua 
County. Registration is $20 
per team of four to six play-ers and there are separate brackets for men’s, wom-en’s and co-rec teams, with 
winners declared from each. 
For more information, find the event on Facebook. 
Sirens of Synchronicity
April 11, 7:30 p.m.The Thomas Center
Four vocalists will come to-
gether for a sonic presenta-tion created in the moment. Presented and conceived by internationally renowned 
vocalist, performance artist 
and improviser Jill Burton, this one-time  event is a unique opportunity in 
Gainesville to experience 
the magic and power of the human voice. Advance tick-ets are available at Persona, 201 S.E. Second Place. 
Victoria’s Secret PINK 
Collegiate ShowdownEnds April 21The Collegiate Showdown is a bracket-style vot-
ing competition during 
which 59 schools compete to have Victoria’s Secret PINK host its annual Back-To-School concert at 
the winning university.  
Log in or sign up at vspink.
com/pinknation. Votes can be cast once a day. Last 
year’s winner, WVU, re-
ceived a concert with Drake, DJ Irie, PINK model Chanel Iman and tons of prizes.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alliga-THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
SUNNY
89/63SUNNY
89/62SUNNY
87/62SUNNY
84/58SUNNY
77/53
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
 THE PROJECT FOLLOWS 
SELF-MADE 20-SOMETHINGS.
By ASHTON MCLEOD
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF student Kyle Eschenroeder is 
working on a project that explores 
one question: Is college a waste of time?
Eschenroeder’s soon-to-be website 
and documentary explore the college decision and other alternatives.
“We’re stuck on this path from 
kindergarten to 12th grade, and there’s not an easy way out until 
you graduate high school,” he said. 
“That’s when you can make a huge decision to stay inside the system or 
blaze your own path.”  
SelfMadeU will go live May 1 and 
consists of a free e-book with case 
studies that follow individuals in 
their 20s to success without receiving 
a degree or attending college at all. The joint project is geared toward 
three groups of people: students graduating high school and wanting 
to travel, people who want to work 
as freelancers or start their own busi-nesses, or those ready to work.
The documentary starts filming 
Friday. It will be a yearlong project compiling what is considered to be the most interesting aspects of the 
website to viewers. 
Kevin Schlenker, a subject in a 
case study for the project, started an online retailer of car audio equipment 
at 19. Last year, he did $280,000 worth of 
revenue and expects to do about $500,000 
this year, according to Eschenroeder. 
“It’s much more important to un-
derstand the market you are working with,” Schlenker said. “In my situa-
tion, I deal with car audio products. 
Knowing the industry is something 
critical that can’t be learned out of a 
business degree.” 4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
Elise Giordano / Alligator
Gabriel Milian, right, serves a customer at the grand opening of Five Guys Burgers and Fries on Tuesday night. 
The new location, located at 4222 NW 16 Blvd., is the second Five Guys to open in Gainesville.
LOCAL
By DANIELLE ALVAREZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students and residents have a new place to get their burger 
fix as Five Guys Burgers and Fries opened a second restaurant 
in Gainesville on Tuesday.
The restaurant, located at 4222 NW 16th Blvd., brought in 
about 500 people and made about $4,000 in sales on its first 
day. The restaurant did not offer specials, discounts or gim-micks on its opening day.
“We have a good product,” said restaurant manager Bran-
don Foster. “People get what they pay for. They get a great burger.”
In 25 years, the  burger chain has expanded to more than 
750 locations in 40 states and in four Canadian provinces. 
Foster said the chain has plans to grow even more.“We are not going to stop with this store,” he said. Accord-
ing to the restaurant’s website, 200 restaurants are planned to open this year.
Foster said customers have been stopping by the restau-
rant days before the grand opening constantly asking when it would open.
“Customers are ecstatic,”  he said. “I don’t think they could 
be any happier.”Five Guys opens 
second location
UFProjectsBy ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
For those with an HD radio, WUFT-FM 
will now be coming through the airways  
in two languages. 
The radio station has announced a new 
addition to its HD lineup, WUFT AHORA, 
a 24-hour Spanish programming channel.
The channel, which has been in the 
works for about four months, will be found in the 89.1 HD-3 slot.
Randy Wright, UF’s executive director 
of media properties, said he expects the station will go on-air Monday, but said the launch date is subject to change.
“We see this as an opportunity to pro-
vide a real difference for students who will be entering the job market,” he said. “And if they have the ability to truly call themselves a bilingual journalist and to have experience actually doing newscasts in Spanish and in English, then we’re giv-
ing our students a real advantage when it 
comes time to get the job.” 
At first, the new station’s content will 
be taken from NPR’s national Spanish-lan-
guage programming, but the station will 
gradually ramp up its local broadcasts as 
time goes on, he said.
Local content will be 
generated by bilingual 
UF students working in 
the broadcasting field,  
though the format cur -
rently centers on news 
and talk radio, Wright 
said. 
Because the station is on an HD fre-
quency, those with regular radios will be unable to access to the programming.
Wright said the station is unique in that 
it is the first foreign-language station of-fered by a prominent journalism college.WUFT to offer Spanish newsProject ponders whether 
college is waste of time
Wright
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. — 
Billionaire adventurer Richard 
Branson on Tuesday unveiled a new single-person submarine that 
he said will be used to set new 
world records by exploring the five deepest parts of the world’s oceans.
Branson said that over the next 
two years, the solo craft will go to the bottom of the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean, the Atlan-tic’s Puerto Rico Trench and South 
Sandwich Trench, the Diamantina 
Trench in the Indian Ocean and the Molloy Deep in the Arctic Ocean.
Branson’s fellow explorer, Chris 
Welsh, plans to make the first de-scent later this year to the Mari-ana Trench, which at 36,000 feet is deeper than Mount Everest is high. Branson then plans to explore 
the 28,000-foot-deep Puerto Rico 
Trench.
While the pilots for the other 
three trips have not been chosen, Branson said they hope to set as many as 30 Guinness World Re-cords with the dives.
“The last great challenge for 
humans is to explore the depths of our planet’s oceans,” the Virgin At-lantic founder said at the Newport Harbor Yacht Club.
A news release said there was 
only one frontier left for Branson’s Virgin brand, which has reached “the seven continents of the earth, 
up into the jet stream and soon, 
even into space.”
“If someone says something is 
impossible, we like to prove it’s possible,” Branson said. “I love learning and I’m just very fortu-nate to participate in these kinds of adventures.”
Branson unveiled the subma-
rine, a nearly 18-foot long, white-and-blue airplane-like craft with stubby wings and a cockpit.
The carbon fiber and titanium 
craft will be capable of cruising for about 6.2 miles and can stay down unaided for 24 hours. The sub and its accompanying catamaran cost an estimated $17 million.Branson said his so-called Vir -
gin Oceanic expedition will have a 
scientific and educational purpose. 
He hopes the voyages will help to educate the public about mankind’s impacts on the world’s oceans and marine life.
He is partnering with Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography in San Diego, Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute and Moss Land-
ing Marine Labs 
in Northern Cali-fornia as well as other research institutions. Sci-entists hope to study the tec-tonic plates and eventually use 
lander vehicles 
to bring back water, microbes and 
possibly small creatures from the ocean depths.
“We have 800 pounds of moon 
rocks and not one drop from the bottom of the ocean,” said Alex Tai, Virgin Group director of special projects.The dives will be dangerous 
and the pilots will likely be down 
in the dark and cold ocean depths 
for hours will little communication with the outside world. Rescues will be impossible, Welsh said. Still, he was clearly more excited than wary of the prospect, saying there is a magic to exploring new places.
“It’s like going to the moon and 
having the lunar rover to explore 
around,” Welsh said.
The dives also will be recorded 
and uploaded to Google Earth, said 
John Hanke, the Internet search engine’s vice president of product management.
“Our mission for Google Earth 
is to create an interactive virtual globe and enable users to visit 
places that they’ve never explored, 
including the world’s oceans,” he said.
The submarine originally was 
commissioned by Branson’s close friend and fellow adventurer Steve Fossett, who died in 2007 while fly-ing a plane over the Sierra Nevada. Fossett had intended to complete the first solo dive to the Mariana Trench, Branson said.
Branson also said he plans to 
create a larger submarine that can hold more people and offer trips to tourists for a sizable fee.
Last year he unveiled a three-
person submarine called the Neck-er Nymph, which is available for $2,500 a day for guests of his pri-vate resort in the Caribbean. The 
submarine, created by San Fran-
cisco-based Hawkes Ocean Tech-nologies, is capable of going almost 100 feet deep. In a subsequent in-terview with Popular Mechanics, Hawkes officials said they were also working with Branson on sub-mersibles capable of high-speed deep sea travel.
Branson has also been working 
on a space tourism venture with the construction of a $209 million spaceport in New Mexico. The British businessman has said he expects to launch the first subor -
bital flights from Spaceport Amer -
ica between mid-summer 2011 and spring 2012. 
Richard Branson plans deep-ocean submarine dives
Branson
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do you plan to 
see Daniel Tosh perform?Tuesday’s question: Will the increased ticket price deter you from entering the football lottery? 40% YES60% NO
92 TOTAL VOTESSounding the Alarm  
We realized years 
ago that constant 
noise affects our 
mental health. It was only recently, however, that the World Health Organization published a report on the physical fallout of living in a loud atmosphere. This goes beyond hearing implica-tions; WHO even went as far as to point to heart problems that may derive from cop-ing with noises our bodies 
weren’t meant to handle.
We’d like to think maybe 
we can help cut down on the 
constant barrage of blaring sounds barreling down our 
ear canals, but the options 
the organization gives just aren’t feasible for most areas. Who can afford to repave the roads with high-pore sur -
faces to muffle the sound of a rumbling semi? While we are tempted to walk around with a pair of earplugs in, we have to remember that there’s a reason our ears are 
so sensitive to noise: safety.
WHO also proposed that 
people turn to much quieter 
hybrid cars in the interest of saving our ears, but there 
have already been problems 
with people not noticing the sound of an approaching hybrid. The problem was a 
large enough issue that car 
companies began adding noise to their vehicles to give pedestrians an opportunity to avoid accidents.
After looking over the 
report, we wonder if there is any reasonable way cut down on the huge noise dos-
age we receive every day we 
set foot on campus, not to mention during the week-ends. Vouching For It
Budget proposal won’t 
solve Medicare problems  
Threatening the sacred cow carries dire consequences for politicians.
The budget Rep. Paul Ryan proposed for the GOP 
focuses on cutting back both Medicare and Medicaid. Ev-eryone understood it wasn’t going to be popular, and chances are that it won’t pass. However, it gives us an op-portunity to remember how much money these programs 
siphon away from all the other items the government ad-
dresses.
While we applaud Ryan for boldly trying to attack the 
deficit problem at its roots, we also have to call him out. Ryan painted switching to a voucher system for Medicare 
as saving money over the long run, and although we are 
excited at the prospect of freeing up federal money with-out losing the level of care our seniors receive, we realized it was too good to be true. If switching to private compa-
nies kept all factors the same other than the lowered price, 
wouldn’t everyone have been on board with the idea by now?
The fact is the combination of corruption and higher 
rates — as demonstrated through the Medicare Advantage 
plan — will cost us even more in the long run. Rep. Ryan, 
we’ll give you points for trying to go against the grain to cut spending, but you need to recheck your numbers, especially when you’re proposing deeper tax cuts. Unfor -
tunately, there’s no simple solution that doesn’t involve directly harming the American people.
But, hey, what do we care? By the time we retire, that 
whole Medicare thing is likely to be a relic of the past.
Princess movies hurting young girls
Disney movies teach awful lessons to children. They 
have ruined entire generations of Americans’ con-
cepts of love, happiness and the pursuit thereof. 
Starting with “Snow White,” we see a heroine whose 
main adversary is a wicked stepmother. Evil, powerful, older women are often the main adversaries in Disney 
movies. Youth and beauty are coveted above all else. Mean-
while, Snow White can do little for herself. She runs away , 
trips and cries until she is rescued. Yet even when poisoned by the stepmother’s apple, not even her seven stout new 
friends can save her. Instead, she must wait for a handsome, 
wealthy , young man to save her before she’s allowed to have 
her happy ending.
Fast forward to Ariel in “The Little Mermaid,” a girl who 
must give up everything by leaving behind everyone she’s ever loved to be with a man she’s only seen. A couple of times throughout the process, she can’t even speak. What 
does this tell young girls? Be quiet and beautiful and some man will take care of you. Is this a joke? It’s like Disney ig-
nored the women’s movement.
You would think “Beauty and the Beast” would be a 
little better. After all, we have a tough, intelligent heroine in 
Belle who shuns the egotistical Gaston’s advances and loves to read. This sounds great! And then she is captured by an 
awful beast-man who rages around his estate casting fear 
and hatred everywhere he stalks. Belle’s beauty and charm 
slowly turn him into a being of compassion, and she learns 
of his terrible curse. After the typical climax hinging upon 
the ultimate symbol of love, a kiss, we see the Beast trans-
formed back into the once-beautiful man he was, and they 
live happily ever after. 
Wait. This means that women should try to change abu-
sive, violent men into compassionate people with their looks 
and charm. And if they don’t, then they have failed, all hope is lost, and it is their fault. Talk about putting pressure on a 
girl. What’s the average age of girls who watch this movie anyway? Seven?
This could go on for several 
movies, touching on points about 
racism, cookie-cutter gender roles 
and absurd resolutions that indirectly tell the audience 
women are powerless. 
The point is, none of us spend much time thinking about 
what’s actually being illustrated. I know I took these mov-
ies at face value for years, never considering their deeper implications. Some might say it’s easy to read too much into 
something like this, but then I think that belittles the nature 
of storytelling as the primary vessel used to convey morals 
and ethics. Lessons learned in stories don’t stop with fables: 
The lessons are right there in front of us all the time. Disney tells little girls that it’s okay to seek out or wait for a man to 
come along, who will then take care of them because they are young, beautiful and quiet. Objectification, much?
To be perfectly honest, as a kid, I never had a crush on 
any of the Disney princesses. I guess, aside from the fact that they were animated, they just weren’t real enough for 
me. I think one of my biggest movie crushes was on Icebox 
from “Little Giants.” There are more movies that cast girls 
in no-frills lead roles, and this is one of them. The movie is awesome because the female lead deals with the often-felt 
pressures girls experience to conform — in this case, choos-
ing between playing football and being a cheerleader. She 
reaches deep down and realizes who she really is — a butt-
kicking quarterback — and helps her team save the day . 
They couldn’t have done it without her, and her male team-
mates are glad she didn’t sit on the sidelines waiting to be 
rescued.
I like that attitude. I’m no father yet, but when I am, I’d 
make my daughter watch “Little Giants” over “Sleeping 
Beauty” any day . 
Wesley Campbell is a fifth-year English major. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.Wesley Campbell
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Columnist’s case against baseball overlooks prices, 
youth involvement
In response to Laura Ellermeyer’s Tuesday column on 
Major League Baseball’s dwindling popularity: While I 
absolutely agree with Laura on the grounds of the de-
clining popularity of baseball, she has gotten many of 
the reasons wrong. 
First, you cannot find baseball games on “channels 
upon channels” of television as she suggests. The exact 
opposite is true. 
In the past few years, blackouts have become increas-
ingly common. 
Also, Fox controls all Saturday games. Meaning, if 
your favorite team isn’t one of the four or so chosen, then your team will most likely be blocked from television 
on Saturday. Some may mention ESPN’s broadcasts, but those games are dominated by either the Yankees or Red Sox. 
For example, Monday night’s game was a showing of 
the Twins at Yankees. 
On Wednesday night, they will once again show the 
Twins at Yankees. 
This Sunday? Yankees at Red Sox. Monday? Rays at Red Sox. 
See the pattern?
One of the other major points Laura made was the 
supposedly higher prices of MLB tickets and conces-sions. As someone who’s had season tickets to both the Tampa Bay Rays and Tampa Bay Buccaneers for more 
than a decade, there isn’t a major difference. 
I spend the same amount of money on food, but actu-
ally a little less on the baseball tickets. However, that’s 
understandable because there are fewer games in a foot-
ball season than in baseball, so higher prices can be ex-
pected for the Bucs. 
As far as “quality” versus “quantity” argument, that’s 
a matter of opinion. I watched both boring and exciting football games last season, and the same goes for base-
ball. Yet, baseball last year may have been one of the 
more exciting seasons in recent memory. 
Multiple no-hitters and perfect games were thrown – 
that never, ever happens! 
Roy Halladay of the Phillies threw a no-hitter in the 
playoffs. 
Yet, strangely, Jose Bautista defied the pitchers and hit 
more than 50 home runs during the regular season. 
History was made all over the place last season. In addition, some teams clinch before the season ends, 
but many others go until the very end. Remember the race in the NL West last season that depended upon a 
ton of scenarios and wasn’t finalized until the very last 
out was made? There was a possibility that the World Series Champion Giants might not have even made the playoffs. Or a few years ago when the Tigers and Twins had to have a tie-breaker game? 
Yeah, baseball is still exciting until the last game of 
the season. 
The real reasons behind MLB’s decline in popularity 
can be traced back to the MLB executives and Commis-
sioner Bud Selig. 
Why is football more popular today? 
They’ve captured the youth. The MLB, on the other hand, has completely neglect-
ed the younger generations. 
Baseball hasn’t taken advantage of Internet media 
and social networking sites. In fact, the MLB has major restrictions placed on how blogs and sites like YouTube can show its media. 
Basically, you can’t use it. If you want MLB highlights, you must go to the over -
crowded and horribly created MLB website. 
Also, MLB has failed to capture the mainstream au-
diences with teams other than the Yankees, Red Sox or Phillies. 
When the World Series between the Giants and Rang-
ers was announced last October, the mainstream crowd had no idea who those teams were. 
As I mentioned, Fox and ESPN constantly show Yan-
kees-Red Sox rivalry or other big-market teams like the 
Phillies. 
Yes, those teams should be shown because they are 
good – they have tons of money to be consistently good –  
and they have a huge following, but it is a double-edged 
sword because it also hurts the mainstream popularity 
of the sport. 
These are just a few of the major reasons why the 
MLB is losing popularity, and it all starts with the youth. Many of the problems come from the MLB itself and its ignorant commissioner Bud Selig. 
Anyone want to start a coup? It’s not like there’s anything else to do if the NFL con-
tinues a lockout.
Sarah Calise
UF student
n n nFootball ticket price increase harms cash-strapped 
students
I am not a fan of the student ticket price increase for 
football. Not for the amount, but for the principle. 
I understand $15 is not a lot to ask for a ticket. But 
neither would be $20. Nor $25. Where would it stop? 
You could vindicate all sorts of prices for tickets 
and say, “It’s a one-of-a-kind experience to be in The 
Swamp.”
But is it right to raise revenue by raising student tick-
et prices? 
Didn’t cost per credit hour just go up? Didn’t my Bright Futures money just get cut back? Show me where the football team is losing money, 
and I’d consider an increase in price fair. 
I don’t like the idea of trying to get more money out 
of a student who is getting less money to go to school in the first place.
I love this school, and I love my sports; I attend as 
many events where I can see my peers (these athletes are students like me) compete at a collegiate athletic level. 
So, when are they going to start charging me money 
for basketball now? You could argue that this year the success of the basketball team was on par with the level 
of the football team. They’ve won just as many champi-
onships since 2000. 
I think the basketball team has it somewhat right: Pre-
cedence goes to those who have gone to a lot of games, and after that you can sign up online or show up the day 
of the game and hope to get a seat. You also lose out on 
three games if you miss one. 
I understand that football is different and can’t be 
done the same, but I think there is a fundamental issue 
in the system when my friends can’t join me for a game 
because they can’t find a ticket for the South Carolina game for less than the cost of their arm on the street.
I understand that $105 or whatever doesn’t seem like 
that much as opposed to $70, but for me, that $35 is a 
week of groceries. 
That is the cost of halfway of a trip home to South 
Florida. 
That is the cost of the cover of a textbook at the UF 
bookstore.
But, oh well, I guess it looks like I’ll be hungry for a 
week for the right to have some school pride and cheer 
on my Gators in person. 
Thanks, UAA. 
Alex Kaufman
5EG
really exciting to win the first ever 
one.”
Gipson said that last year, they 
were in 11th place after the first day 
of competition. 
He didn’t think they had a 
chance.
“It was probably some of the hard-
est fishing we’ve ever had,” he said.
So he and Wercinski decided to 
just have fun on the second day and 
ended up in second place.
On the final day, Texas State Uni-
versity, the leading team from the day before, had caught 29 pounds and 1 ounce of fish.
The UF team had 29 pounds and 
10 ounces of fish. 
In the tournament, teams from 
schools across the country fish for three days, from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m., 
using artificial bait to catch the five 
heaviest fish. After the first two days, the totals are added and the top five teams go to the final, third day of 
competition. The winning team will  
have best total weight from all three days.
Chad Gay, the public relations 
manager for Forrest L. Wood Out-
doors, which started the tournament 
last year, said UF has won a major -
ity of the $1 million FLW has given to winners.
“The University of Florida has 
just dominated,” he said.
Since 2009, when the FLW added 
a college section to the national- and pro-level fishing competitions, the number of college teams has grown 
from about 90 to almost 500. 
“It’s just like any other college sport,” Gay said. “These kids are the 
athletes that go pro.”
Out of those 500 teams, 25 will be 
competing in the championship this year. Two teams will be from from UF. 
Gipson and Wercinski form one 
team, and  Dennis Croyle and Travis Gates are on the other.
Gipson said there won’t be too 
much fighting between the two 
teams.
“We’re really excited to see they 
made it this far,” he said. “We’re 
pretty good friends at the end of the day.”8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
He practiced medicine and taught medical students for more than 50 years
He was interested in pursuing zoology or biology as 
a career until the U.S. Navy recruited him during World 
War II to become a physician.
As a doctor, he practiced medicine, taught aspiring 
physicians and conducted medical research. 
While at UF, he also established a chapter of Physi-
cians for Social Responsibility, a nonprofit organization that advocates the prevention of nuclear warfare and the reduction of the environmental effects of toxic deg-radation and global warming.
Although Taylor retired from teaching in 1996, he re-
mained involved with university affairs and remained close with his friends on the faculty.
Parker Small, Jr., professor emeritus of pathology and 
pediatrics at UF, played tennis on Sundays and bridge on Mondays with Taylor for years. They became friends after Small joined the UF staff in 1966. 
Taylor had a competitive spirit, whether he was play-
ing tennis, bridge or another game, Small said.
In addition to being a good teacher, Taylor was also 
“the doctor’s doctor,” he said. He was the personal doc-tor of several of his colleagues, which showed his clinical skill and the respect his fellow physicians had for him.
His family is planning a memorial service that will be 
held later in the spring, Good said. 
Taylor is survived by four sons and three grandchil-
dren.
Taylor’s wife, Audrey, died three years ago after 60 
years of marriage, Barrow said. 
“He was ready to go,” he said. “I dearly miss him 
and always will, but we all have to go. That’s the way it is.”DOCTOR , from page 1
Special to the Alligator
W. Jape Taylor, the first chief of cardiology at the UF College Of Medicine, passed away March 22. Taylor joined the staff 
at UF in 1958.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Kyle Gamble might have been in trouble for the 
damage to his mom’s car, but he only made it worse 
by breaking a knife off in his roommate’s back.
Gamble, 18, was arguing with his roommate, 
Lou Calhoun, in their house on Southeast 12th Ter -
race at about 3 a.m. Tuesday morning, according to a Gainesville Police report.
Gamble accused Calhoun of taking his mom’s 
car around town and driving  through dips in the road at high speeds, causing damage to the vehi-cle.
Gamble became so angry during the ensuing ar -
gument that he grabbed a small 
knife and drove it into Calhoun’s 
back, breaking the handle off the 
blade.
Gamble removed the knife 
before police and paramedics arrived, but when they did, they found a half-inch cut in the mid-dle of Calhoun’s back.
Though the injuries weren’t 
life threatening, Calhoun was taken to Shands at 
UF.
Gamble told police he had been friends with 
Calhoun for two years and admitted that he had 
been upset with his friend for wrecking his mom’s car. 
He also admitted to the stabbing and was arrest-
ed on a felony charge of aggravated battery with bond set at $20,000. He has since been released from the Alachua County Jail. Man stabs 
friend for 
denting car
Gamble
Rob Newell/Alligator
UF’s Matthew Wercinski holds up his catch in last year’s Southern Regional 
College Fishing Tournament at Lake Monroe. 
The UF fishing team won $25,000 last year
FISHING , from page 1WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Student Body Vice President Marcus Dixon thanks Student Government Senators for approving a bill involv -
ing the Freshman Leadership Council. Dixon also announced SG will be accepting questions to be asked in 
an upcoming meeting with UF Provost Joe Glover.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
The Student Senate unani-
mously passed the Cabinet Re-
construction Act despite the commotion it caused at last week’s meeting. 
The act was passed Tuesday 
night after adding amendments 
that kept the Freshman Leader -
ship Council its own entity and 
not part of the proposed New Student Outreach. 
Student Body Vice President 
Marcus Dixon, a member of the 
Unite Party, said he was glad 
the Senate was able to pass the bill with the amendments and that the Student Body could 
understand how important the 
FLC is to UF.“[It’s in the] best interests of 
the Student Body for next year 
and the upcoming years,” Dix-on said.
Senators also unanimously 
passed the first reading of the activity and service fee budget for the new year. It will under -
go the final vote at next week’s meeting. 
The activity and service fees 
are $13.94 per credit hour for all students at UF. 
The fee is used to fund Stu-
dent Government, RecSports and the Reitz Union.
A resolution also passed 
honoring UF pharmacy student Tucker McCarty, who died in a car accident Saturday.
His funeral will be held 
Thursday in St. Augustine. Senate bill keeps 
FLC its own entity
 PERFORMANCES ARE THURSDAY 
AND SATURDAY AT 7:30 P.M.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
A narrator stepped onto the stage in an 
olive tunic holding an empty three-ringed 
binder.
“Once upon a time,” he said.But this wasn’t a fairytale.
A 20-foot-long golden snake tried to eat a 
prince, a birdcatcher with a net and a birdcage 
strapped to his back had his mouth sealed with a golden lock and everyone sang in Ger -
man and spoke in English.
Student actors rehearsed an opera by Mo-
zart, “The Magic Flute,” Tuesday night. It will be performed Thursday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
About 150 UF students worked on the pro-
duction, a classic German opera about failure and forgiveness.
The cast members are students in Opera 
Theater Workshop, which the show’s director, Anthony Offerle, teaches to give students real-
world experience with theater.
Cody Laun, the UF music graduate student 
who will play the prince, said he’s learned 
more on stage than he ever has in a class-room.
He said being on stage teaches you how to 
work as a team while under pressure, and the rush of excitement is indescribable.
“There’s nothing like being on stage in 
front of 2,000 people,” he said. The orchestra members, the chorus and the 
stagehands are also students, Offerle said.
Mary Steffel, a 29-year-old marketing post-
doctorate fellow, said singing in the show’s chorus is a way for her to disconnect from the stress of her research, which focuses on con-sumer behavior.
“It’s easy to be totally consumed with one’s 
work,” she said. “For four hours in my life, my 
primary concern is being actively engaged in 
telling a story.”
Offerle said the per -
formance cost between 
$20,000 and $30,000, which 
includes renting the set, hemming the cos-tumes and staff payroll. The cost will be paid for by ticket sales, which are $15 for students and $25 to $40 for everyone else.
Since the show was set up to help students learn to perform, Offerle had some help with the funds. He said the Sarasota Opera House rented out its sets for Offerle to use, the Opera-festival di Roma let him borrow the costumes for free and employees from the Phillips Cen-ter helped with behind-the-scenes work.
If this show was done in a non-academic 
setting, he said, it would have cost no less than $175,000 to rent the set for its full market price, 
rent the costumes and pay a full staff.
He said he’s grateful for the contributions 
because he’s seen how much his students en-
joy performing.
While some of them will continue perform-
ing, he said, others put in the time for the love of the arts.
“We have people who are going to go on to 
all sort of walks of life,” he said, “but they’ll be 
music lovers forever.”Students to perform German opera at Phillips Center
AroundGainesville10, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
INTERNATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LONDON — It’s an offer that 
diplomats hope Moammar Gad-
hafi’s family and top aides can’t 
refuse: If they publicly withdraw support for the Libyan dictator’s re-gime, the restrictions on their assets 
and travel plans could be made to 
vanish.
The U.S. Treasury and Britain’s 
Foreign Office have spelled out the details of the proposal, and discus-
sions are now under way at the Eu-
ropean Union ahead of a meeting of foreign ministers next week. Talks 
on the proposed deal will also take 
place among U.N. Security Council 
members if any of those named un-
der U.N. sanctions flee from Libya and renounce Gadhafi.
Gadhafi’s seven sons, a wife, his 
daughter, two cousins and other allies who have served him for 
much of his rule are all being given 
a chance to escape international blacklists and reclaim billions of 
dollars of seized funds.
But some critics recoil at the 
thought, wondering whether the 
incentives will set a bad precedent for giving billions back to possible 
plunderers or even if the measures 
will work to oust Gadhafi.
The offer came as Gadhafi’s forc-
es unleashed a withering bombard-
ment on the rebels outside a key oil town Tuesday and a U.S. envoy met 
with the rebels in the eastern city of 
Benghazi in a possible step toward diplomatic recognition.
The EU will decide next week 
whether to lift a travel ban and asset freeze imposed on Moussa Koussa, the former Libyan foreign minister who escaped from Tripoli 
last week, flew into Britain and is 
now providing information to in-telligence officers and government officials in the U.K.
“There are talks going on this 
week ahead of meetings in Eu-rope next week,” a Foreign Office spokeswoman said, on customary condition of anonymity in line with policy.
The U.S. Treasury on Monday 
removed sanctions it had imposed against Koussa, saying lifting the measures “should encourage oth-ers within the Libyan government to make similar decisions to aban-
don the Gadhafi regime.”
It’s likely that EU diplomats will 
also discuss how to handle other 
potential defectors attracted by the terms of the international commu-
nity’s deal.
British Foreign Secretary Wil-
liam Hague told lawmakers that anyone among the 25 people listed 
on an EU sanctions list and the 16 
named in measures approved by 
the U.N. could escape the restric-tions if they recant their backing for 
Gadhafi, and if allies agree their ac-
tions should be rewarded.
“In the case of anyone currently 
sanctioned by the EU and U.N. who breaks definitively with the regime, we will discuss with our partners the merits of removing the restric-
tions that apply to them,” Hague 
said.
The U.S. Treasury has 13 senior 
Libyan officials on a blacklist, in-cluding Gadhafi, his wife and sons, 
and plans to announce sanctions against other Libyan officials in the 
coming days.
Oliver Miles, a former British 
ambassador to Libya, said the of-
fer to lift sanctions could help pile pressure on Gadhafi.
“It will encourage people to de-
fect and therefore reduce the politi-
cal support which Gadhafi enjoys,” 
Miles said. “That’s the only way in which a solution is going to be 
reached.”
Others aren’t convinced.
“It’s a carrot-and-stick tactic that 
frankly hasn’t worked very well in the past, but we’re reaching a criti-cal point that we have to try vari-ous approaches,” said a European intelligence official, who spoke to The Associated Press on condition 
of anonymity because of the sensi-
tivity of the discussions.
Miles said the most damaging 
move would be if any Gadhafi rela-tives took up the deal.
“If a close family member were 
to come out openly and defect, that would also be valuable,” he added.
Details of the assets each indi-
vidual Libyan has had seized have 
not been disclosed by the U.N. or the EU, and officials are still check-
ing the details of bank accounts, 
stocks and properties that regime 
insiders own.
Yet Britain’s treasury said, so 
far, it calculates those named un-der the sanctions hold assets worth 
about $20 billion inside the U.K. The Netherlands said it has frozen $4.5 billion in Libyan assets, and Sweden estimates that Libyan as-sets there are worth around $1.6 billion.
One relative of a victim of the 1988 Lockerbie airline bombing — 
act of terror that British officials are 
questioning Koussa about — said 
he was troubled to see longtime regime insiders being offered finan-
cial incentives to abandon Gadhafi.
In 2003, Libya acknowledged 
responsibility for bombing Pan Am Flight 103 over the Scottish town 
of Lockerbie, an act that killed 270 
people, mostly Americans.
“It’s kind of distasteful what 
they have to do,” said Bob Monetti, of Cherry Hill, N.J., whose 20-year-
old son Richard was killed in the 
Lockerbie blast. “[But] they’re do-
ing whatever they can to isolate Gadhafi to the point where he’s 
alone — and that’s a good idea.”
Despite the international offer, 
Hague has insisted that no mem-
bers of Gadhafi’s regime will be granted immunity from prosecu-tion for past crimes — even if they help topple Gadhafi.
But others suggest Koussa might 
win leniency.
Luis Moreno-Ocampo, the pros-
ecutor of the International Criminal Court, wants to interview Koussa 
for his investigation into possible 
atrocities in Libya, and has named Gadhafi and Koussa as possible suspects responsible for crimes against humanity.
Yet Moreno-Ocampo offered an 
olive branch Tuesday to Koussa, hinting that he may not be pros-ecuted.
“If you cannot stop the crimes, 
defecting is a way to avoid criminal responsibility,” Moreno-Ocampo said. “So we would like to under -
stand why he defected, what hap-pened and we’re trying to inter -
view him.”
Scottish authorities will inter -
view Koussa in the next few days over the 1988 Lockerbie bombing. 
And in France, families of those 
killed when a French plane was blown up in 1989 over Niger — kill-ing all 170 people aboard — have 
demanded that Koussa also answer 
questions about that attack. Envoys dangle financial offer to key Gadhafi aides
AP Photo
Libyan rebels shell pro Gadhafi positions just outside Brega, Libya, on Tuesday. Libyan government forc-
es on Tuesday unleashed a withering bombardment of the rebels outside a key oil town.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 11
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 13
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
4-20-10-70-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-20-11-67-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    4-7-11-50-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
4-20-11-55-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   5-10-11-34-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     4-12-11-21-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, close to campus, all appliances, W/D,hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1325 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39374-12-20-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
4-20-10-26-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
4-13-11-20-2
3bedroom $509/person
Amazing townhome with everything included! 
Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/
dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-
2801   4-20-25-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2
Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-24-25
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, 
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dish-washer, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   5-12-11-26-2
★Walk to UF★
2,3,4,5 bedrooms Avail Aug
walk2uf.com
4-20-24-2
2BR HOUSE 3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $850352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/Sorority 
Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1335352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2350 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
Large 4BR/2BA HOUSES 2 blks from UF/Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, w/dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plen -
ty of parking! . Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1980 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
14, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
3BR/3BA House, fenced yard, close to UF, 
open floor plan/cathedral ceilings, new tile, 
carpet, fixtures. W/D, lawn, and pest control 
incl. Small pets allowed, avail Aug, $1350/
month. 352-246-5958, tonyc@kinetixpt.com    
4-8-11-15-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1225 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   4-20-11-21-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    4-20-11-21-2
www.Bellaproperties.net
3/2 with study. Walk to UF, hardwood floors, 
fireplace, 2 car garage, full sevice tour
335-5424
4-20-20-2
www.BellaProperties.net
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
4-20-20-2.
WALK TO UF
3 Bed 2 Bath House in upscale Golfview Estates near Law School & Athletic fields.$1400 mo. Aug 1. Call (305) 788-4103    4-20-11-19-2
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    4-20-11-20-2
MIKE'S HOUSES - 352-665-7316
Exc cond - Close to UF. Pets OK - fenced yards.●3/2 $1250 621 NW 35th St.●4/3 $1250 611 NW 36th Terr●3/2 $1150 630 NW 34th Terr.  4-7-11-10-2
Fantastic 3/2 House - Only 9 blocks to UF!! 
Large bedrooms, great neighborhood, wood floors, fenced back yard, off the street park-ing, Freshly painted bright interior. Aval. now, 1200.00 + Sec. Deposit. 909 NW 9th Ave. Call Chad 407-230-2423   4-12-11-10-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pristine Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, hdwd flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-1458    4-20-11-16-2
Near UF. Beautiful 4BR/2BA home. Florida 
room w/ inground jacuzzi. W/D. All tile floor. 2-car attached garage, storage shed. Walk to grocery & shops. Avail Aug 10. $1499/mo  904-534-6982, kencarmgravs@comcast.net    4-6-11-5-2
1BR/1BA, large screened-in porch, W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $535. Sec Dep $535. 3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #3 Please call 352-371-3473    4-20-11-14-2MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF & Downtown! 
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 
216 SW 12th Street. 
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA  1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo 
1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry 
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos
4-15-11-11-2
★JACKSON SQUARE★
Walk to class & have it all.
Visit jacksonsquare.uf
Call 352-375-8256
4-20-13-2
$695 Move In Specials
3 Bed Houses walking distance to
UF & Downtown
Call 352-226-3535 or 352-505-9264
photos available at
www.RentalWorkshop.com
4-8-11-5-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    4-15-11-10-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net    4-20-11-13-2
FREAKS! Downtown studio/garage apt. 
Window A/C, space heat, off-street park-ing. H2O/sewage incl. On bus lines near Hippodrome. 416 SE 2nd St. $420/mo, 1st, last & sec. Call 352-373-6551    4-18-10-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
1 BR unfurnished @ Gatornest 300 NW 
18th St 3 blocks from campus available from mid-April through July 31 pets OK $560 plus utilities negotiable call 850-382-1348 or 850-474-4742       4-12-11-5-2
2BD/2BA in 4bd/4ba condo avail. LONG/
SHORT TERM FURNISHED $440 or UNFURNISHED $410. Incl. Light, water, internet. Women roommates so women pre-ferred. Call 407 504 4319 for appt.     4-12-11-5-2
CLOSE TO UF - 4BR/2BA HOUSE
914 SW 6th Ave. Cent AC/heat. W/D hk-up. 
$1690/mo. From 8/16, for 1 year. No pets. 359-1508    4-20-11-11-2
2/1 Across from VA Hospital.
$550/mo. $300 dep. No dogs, cats ok w/ 
$100 one time pet fee. 352-634-5175    4-12-11-5-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage. Across from GHFC. $1000/mo. Available January. 331-6872   4-19-11-10-2Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
The last issue for the spring 
semester will be on April 20th!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, 
all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your 
own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 
or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-
30-3
$505 Parkside 2 Townhomes, Very close to 
UF (off sorority row), Lease runs May 1- July 
31. Bedroom has own bath & private balcony, 
1/2 bath downstairs, pay for half of elec  Call 
Ali 9416282134 or email booie12@ufl.edu    
4-8-11-5-3
Hi ladies! If anyone is interested in a summer 
sublease my room at Windsor hall it is going 
to be free May to the beginning of August. 
My roommate who you will share the room 
with is really sweet and easy to live with. My 
rent is $519 a month. It is just 2 blocks from 
UF campus behind Norman Hall. It also has 
a private kitchenette and bathroom. All inclu -
sive... rent so no having to worry about any other bills. This beautiful dorm is also fully 
furnished.If you're interested, let me know!
Call Sarah @ 407-936-4292     4-8-5-3
$379/mo Lexington Crossing Apt. 1 room in
a 4BR/4BA, furnished w/ utilities.
Available May through August
Interested? Please call 813-504-4265
or email abollin26@ufl.edu    4-8-11-5-3
1/1 in a 3/3 at Oxford Manor for Summer.
Fully furnished with utilities. Washer/Dryer.3 buses to and from campus.2 rooms available. Only $315/month each!Contact Alex at(561)-324-1897 or aleas121@ufl.edu.    4-6-1-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-726-2915    4-19-11-25-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412    4-8-14-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   4-20-15-4
Female Roommate wanted in 2/1 for next 
school year (Aug 1 2011-Aug 1 2012). Rent is $275 + util (usually less than $100). 
Looking for mature, considerate, easygoing 
person. Close to campus on SW 16th ave, 
buses available, 2 pools, W/D facilities in the 
building, overall a good, cheap place to live. Contact Annie at agreene175@hotmail.com.    
4-6-3-4
400 a month- UF female undergrad looking 
for 2 roommates for an awesome 3 bed/1 bath house behind Norman hall! Walking dis-tance to campus!Email elenarthomas@ufl.edu.    4-8-3-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 
(352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
CASH FOR ELECTRONICS
WORKING OR NOT!
Xbox, iTouch, Computer Repairs
www.techmodo.co
Techmodo (352)872 5881
6450 SW Archer Rd By the Beef `O` Brady`s  
4-6-7-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
Only for Students ofUF!
Win an Apple iPad 2 right now!
Go to www.giftnitro.com
Win a free Apple iPad2!
4-13-11-5-10
KENTE GRADUATION STOLES FOR SALE!  
Celebrate with hand-woven kente stole/sash 
imported from Accra, Ghana.
ONLY 19.99 plus shipping.
Order online – www.afrikandesigns.com; 
email Grace at grace@afrikandesigns.com.    
4-20-11-11-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come with one year parts and labor warranties! Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
4-20-11-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   4-20-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Love writing? Looking for writers for origi-
nal articles & product descriptions for 
multiple IT websites. Earn up to $150-$300/
wk from your location. Must have excellent 
grammar & writing skills. 626-602-5254
4-12-11-20-14SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      4-8-11-70-13 
CASH PAID FOR JUNK CARS$200 & up. FREE pick-up.
352-771-6191    4-20-11-11-13
16, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
Remedy Staffing now offers Free Video 
Resumes. Add to you Facebook profile, 
Linkedin and many other social sites.
Call 672.6080 x-3 or email
stephenw@remedystaff.com to schedule.
4-12-11-20-4
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-
14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-
11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village is 
an Equal Opportunities Employer and a Drug 
Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full 
time Life Coach positions available in both 
Independent and Assisted Living. Come 
and be a part of our growing team! These 
positions play a support role in planning, or-
ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-
ment program that promotes total health and 
wellness of each resident living here at The 
Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-
ence conducting group programs with strong interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-
sion for working with older adults is a must. In 
addition to experience with social programs, 
individuals with a theology background and/or 
fitness experience are encouraged to apply. 
please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     
5-17-11-27-14
PROPERTY MANAGER
PT - Friendly, energetic person.
Requires good communication skills,
sales &/or mgmt. exp. & computer
knowledge. Great benefits. Must be
avail. wknds. Apply in person CMC
2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B DFWP
4-20-11-24-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
Camp Counselors
Part time and full time positions open im-
mediately & over the summer. Must be 18 
or older and good with children. Apply with 
resume online at www.GirlsPlace.net    4-8-
11-10-14
$15 for a 90-minute study. To participate, you 
should have grown up in a Spanish-speaking 
country & become fluent in English when you 
came to the US for school. Contact Sabra 
Pelham at spelham@ufl.edu to sign up! 
4-11-10-14
SCOOTER/MOTORCYCLE MECHANIC
PT/FT jobs available. ExperienceW/ 2 & 4-stroke motors a must!Inquire within or call 336-1271Collin@NS4L.com    4-20-16-14
Computer Programming Internship
Work with local small business toExpand online presence, update &build websites, and network. WebDesign experience required.Collin@NS4L.com for more info.    4-20-16-14
SMOKERS needed for study assessing 
the effects of various activities on cravings/withdrawal/smoking. COMPENSATION pro-vided. Call 336-406-3706 or emailuflsmokelab@gmail.com    4-6-4-14
Web Designer/Project Manager (immediate 
opening). Design (photoshop) and coordinate building of websites. Photoshop required. HTML, CSS, Joomla, Flash preferred. 20-40 hours/wk, flexible hours. Email cover letter/ resume/portfolio to jobs@GINsystem.com.   4-7-11-5-14
Hiring Now for Fall!!Office assistant for in-home office. Avg 10-15 hrs/week. Must have transportation, be reli-able, honest, and a hard worker. Pay $7.25/hr with raise in 30 days. Email info@fratmg-mt.com and we will email you complete job description.    4-8-11-5-14Seeking undergraduates or recent graduates 
with an interest in behavior analysis, and/or 
eating disorders, diet and fitness. Please 
contact Mark at 352-339-3751 or
lister@behavioralsupports.com    4-8-11-5-
14
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing gals/guys
to cover summer Truck Team shifts.
Student or recent graduate preferred.
+21 age req'd for insurance. $8.50 - $11/hr. 
Email cover letter and resume to cameron.
lansdell@1800gotjunk.com
4-8-11-4-14
Beautifully renovated, furnished
condo,1 mile from UF, $369/MO
includes cable, internet, utilities,
pool + fitness room and on bus route, 
Female roommate needed, 352 262-2871    
4-20-11-13-14
Brand Ambassador position-Part Time- with 
one of the newest and coolest beverage 
brands in the country. Must be 21 +, have an 
extensive network of friends and contacts. 
Must be extremely active in social media 
sites.
●Position will require an outgoing individual 
that can manage time, budget and be profi-
cient in reporting.
●Position requires abiding by a strict code 
of conduct.All interested please send resume to
ccomjobs@gmail.com     4-7-11-3-14
OT Student needed to coach 17 y.o. in 
basic social skills. Flex hrs. 5-10 hrs/wk. 
International students and those w/techni-
cal background encouraged 352-316-0888    
4-7-11-3-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St    4-11-11-5-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse.
Apply from 2:30 to 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please    4-11-5-14
Receptionist/file clerk/runner for busy law 
firm. Must be organized, motivated, profes-sional w/positive attitude, reliable transpor-tation, p/t. Resume, cover letter w/available days/times: hrmb1204@yahoo.com    4-12-11-5-14
MOBILE WAITERS NEEDED - Gator Food is looking to work with new delivery drivers! FT/PT, make your own schedule, flexible shifts, Avg. $10-$14/hr. Must have own car, cell phone, be 21+. Call 888-334-9675 ext. 0, email blatendresse@d-d-i.com, or go to www.d-d-i.com    4-8-11-3-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
ARC Lifeguard Training
Starts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    
4-20-11-12-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
CPR training is back!
Need CPR/AED or 1st Aid?Meets internship requirementsFloridaHeartsaver.org(352)575-0119                        4-8-20-16
Considering Adoption?Childless married couple seeks to adopt. Schoolteacher mom & devoted dad. Financial security. Expenses paid. Call 732-297-5882. FL Bar #0150789    4-8-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
Mature artist looking for a woman to share 
my spacious 2-story 4BR apt on NW side 
of town. I will pay all the bills in exchange 
for the master BR/BA w/walk-in closet, help 
around the house, some cooking & grocery 
shopping. Apt complex is nice w/2 pools & 
tennis courts. I don't drive but you will need 
a car which I will pay for. Object comfortable 
& fun living. Call Bob 352-226-8449     4-12-
5-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
SAVE MONEY AT GAINESVILLE
RESTAURANTS & BARS!
Great, money saving deals sent straight to
your cell phone. Text Gdeals to 96362 to
start cashing in on savings TODAY!
4-8-11-5-21
OPERATION CATNIP
Spring is in the air and so are cat phero -
mones. We need to hurry and spay as many 
cats as possible before kitten season kicks into high gear! Bring community cats from Alachua County in for FREE spay/neuter on Sunday, April 17th. Operation Catnip wants to spay 3,000 cats in 2011, but we can't do it without you. If you can't make it to the Sunday Spay Day, we can schedule you during the week at a partner clinic for FREE. Don't wait-- make a reservation now! ocgainesville@gmail.com 352.380.0940Drop traps available for loan...4-15-13-24
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42x
Any info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
Sports
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL RESULTS FLORIDA BASKETBALL NEWS ONLINE
Previous question:  
Who will lead UF in rushing touchdowns during the 2011 football season? Percent (Votes)
Rainey 52% (37)
Demps 27% (19)
Burton 13% (9)
Other 8% (6)
71 TOTAL VOTESn Check out our website at alligatorSports.org for our 
latest podcast, featuring Adam Berry, Jesse Simonton, 
Greg Luca and InsideTheGators.com’s Kyle Maistri discussing Florida spring football. Also watch the latest installment of our weekly video show for more Gators football and baseball.n Florida basketball signee Brad Beal received the Gatorade 
National Player of the Year award Monday. The St. Louis 
Chaminade High star averaged 32.4 points, 5.7 rebounds, 2.8 assists and 2.7 steals per game during his senior season, leading his team to a 27-1 record. Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Anthony DeSclafani throws a pitch during the ninth inning of UF’s 4-3 loss to UCF on Tuesday night at home. The Gators entered the ninth with a 3-2 lead, but DeSclafani gave up the game’s final two runs.
n FLORIDA LED BY ONE 
AFTER EIGHT INNINGS.
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
Anthony DeSclafani wasn’t 
used to this. Not this season, 
at least.
Florida’s normally reli-
able right-hander was one 
out away from improving to 
4 for 4 in save opportunities 
before allowing a two-run double to UCF shortstop Dar -
nell Sweeney, and the Knights downed the No. 4 Gators 4-3 in 
McKethan Stadium on Tues-
day night.
Clinging to a 3-2 lead in the 
top of the ninth, DeSclafani (4-
1, 1.99 ERA) was called from 
the bullpen after lefty reliever Nick Maronde allowed a lead-off walk to UCF’s Beau Taylor.
DeSclafani quickly struck 
out the first batter he faced before Ryan Breen’s fly ball dropped in center field, put-ting runners on first and sec-
ond with only one out for the Knights (20-9).
Florida’s junior pitcher re-
bounded with another strike-
out, putting the Gators (24-6) 
one out away from a fourth 
straight home win.
Then, DeSclafani ran into 
Sweeney.
The UCF shortstop crushed 
a double over center fielder Ty-ler Thompson’s head, and with it, he dashed Florida’s hopes of a midweek win.
“I’m not going to sit here 
and talk about Disco,” Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “That guy has been nails for 
us all year long. He’s made 
pitches all year long, and that happens. This is the game of baseball. 
“If we get into the same situ-
ation Friday night, he’s getting the ball.”
DeSclafani’s blown save 
came just an inning after junior 
Jeff Moyer appeared to come 
through with a game-deciding knock of his own.
With the game deadlocked 
at 2-2 and pinch runner Paul DeSclafani gives up game-winning run as UCF shocks UF
Spring game provides hope to fans
Call me a cynic — and maybe this is just repressed jealousy because I wasn’t appointed to one of the 
four media guest coach spots — but it’s hard to get excited about what’s going to happen Saturday in The Swamp.
I could rant for days and write pages 
about how ultimately useless it is to cover spring practice and how investing your -
self in today’s football news won’t do you any good come fall.
But that’s not what this Saturday is all 
about. 
Florida coach Will Muschamp bucked 
his predecessor’s tradition by extending an olive branch to the media — however 
select the audience and questionable the 
motive may be.
No, the annual Orange and Blue De-
but is all about you, the fans.
Truth be told, most coaches would 
probably rather use Saturday as another chance to scrimmage behind the comfort of their practice field’s closed doors. They would likely prefer one more opportuni-
ty to teach their players the new offense 
and defense. “I think more 
than anything what we want to do is go 
out and have a very 
functional scrim -
mage. We want to go out and execute 
on both sides of the 
ball,” Muschamp said Tuesday. “What I want to 
do is play physical, play with toughness, 
get in two-back, run the ball, stop the run 
defensively, and do those things in the scrimmage. 
“It’s not going to be real flashy.”
Sounds like fun, right?
Sure, as Muschamp said, it’s impor -
tant to see how some of his younger play-ers respond in front of a crowd in a big stadium, to evaluate how they perform at 
a faster tempo and to find out how physi-
cal they’re willing to play.
“Those are the things we’ll be looking 
for, not looking to scheme anybody, but By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
Redshirt freshman wide receiver Chris 
Dunkley has been suspended for academ-
ic reasons, Florida coach Will Muschamp 
said Tuesday . 
Muschamp added that Dunkley has 
been suspended for “parts” of spring rath-er than the whole spring season. 
“He just academically needs to handle 
some things,” Muschamp said. “So that’s 
where we are right now.”
Dunkley came to UF as a four-star pros-
pect and the No. 9-rated wide receiver in the country, according to Rivals.com.
He caught 34 passes for 721 yards and 
four touchdowns in his senior season at Pahokee High but was hampered by a 
nagging hamstring injury that led to his 
eventual redshirt last season. POSITION CHANGES: As Florida undergoes sweeping transitions on both sides of the 
ball, some of the Gators are making chang-
es of their own.
Gerald Christian spent his freshman 
year working at tight end before switching to linebacker this spring. 
But now, the 6-foot-3, 
232-pound sophomore is 
consistently taking snaps 
on both sides of the ball. 
“(Christian has) done 
some nice things for us at tight end, and we’re going 
to continue to rep him in there at lineback-er,” Muschamp said. 
Muschamp praised Christian for his ef-
fort and performance on both units, add-
ing the decision on Christian’s permanent 
position will be made after the spring sea-son concludes. 
“He’s battling in there,” Muschamp WR Dunkley suspended
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberry
FootballSEE BASEBALL, PAGE 18
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 19
SEE ADAM, PAGE 19n THE SHORTSTOP FELL 
WHILE BACKTRACKING A SHALLOW FLY BALL.
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org 
 
UCF’s Darnell Sweeney hurt the 
Gators in more ways than one Tues-
day night.
In the seventh inning of the 
Knights’ 4-3 victory, Sweeney, the 
eventual hero with his go-ahead 
two-run double in the ninth, hit a 
fly ball into shallow left field. Flor -
ida shortstop Nolan Fontana back-
pedaled from his position, chasing 
the seeing-eye single into a crowd of Gators outfielders. 
After the ball dropped, Fonta-
na’s body drilled the ground, and his head hit the grass. The Gators’ 
leadoff hitter rolled in pain for sev-
eral minutes while receiving medi-cal treatment. 
Fontana was able to walk off 
without assistance, and coach Kev-in O’Sullivan said Fontana was fine 
leaving the field. 
But when asked about his con-
dition, O’Sullivan said, “I haven’t even talked to [team trainer John 
Barrett] yet.”
O’Sullivan also said he didn’t 
see the play, but he “thought” Fon-tana’s head hit the ground. 
The shortstop, who was 0 for 4 
before incurring the injury, was re-moved from the game. Sophomore 
Cody Dent was inserted into the lineup, grounding out in his only plate appearance.
“He’s a competitor, and no one 
wants to see him off the field,” ju-nior Jeff Moyer said. “It’s tough 
when your big shortstop goes down like that.”Fontana, a sophomore and fresh-
man All-American a year ago, has  led off every game this season. He 
is tied for first on the team with 23 
RBIs and leads UF in on-base per -
centage, triples and walks.
No timetable was given for his possible return, and the Gators have limited options if their shortstop should miss any significant time.  
OLd WOES CONTINuE: After busting 
out of their hitting slump during 
last weekend’s sweep of Tennessee, the Gators reverted back to their 
former struggles Tuesday night. 
Florida’s issues of stranding 
runners struck again, as its Nos. 1 through 3 hitters went a combined 1 for 13, including an 0-for-5 night 
from Daniel Pigott (.357). 
“We left 10 guys stranded 
again,” O’Sullivan said. “It’s a frus-trating loss.”
UF’s coach said it’s tough to 
have big innings with the new bats, which makes it essential to execute 
fundamentals. 
“Those are the things that are 
kind of hurting us right now,” he said. 
ETC: Austin Maddox continued his 
recent surge with two more RBIs Tuesday night. In the past four 
games, the sophomore has knocked 
in six runs on six hits after going 11 games without an RBI. 
“I was scuffling a little bit early, 
but I just went to work and just tried to relax up there and have some 
fun,” he said. “That’s what I’ve been 
doing these last few games and it’s been working out.” 
Tyler Thompson made several 
nice plays in center field, starting  just his seventh game of the season. 
With two men on in the fifth, the 
junior made a running catch to end the threat. With the game tied in the 
eighth, he robbed UCF’s Chris Ta-
laday of extra bases with a jumping grab at the wall. … Moyer’s single 
in the eighth was his fifth pinch hit 
this season. 18, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF shortstop Nolan Fontana falls backward after chasing a fly ball in the seventh inning of Florida’s 4-3 
loss to UCF on Tuesday night. Fontana hit his head on the field, was injured and left the game.
Fontana leaves game with head injury, status unclear
Moyer’s pinch-hit RBI single in eighth gives Gators short-lived lead
Wilson standing at second, O’Sullivan called on the Santa 
Fe College transfer to pinch hit for third baseman Zack Powers.
Moyer came through with his fifth pinch hit of the sea-
son by lining a single up the middle and scoring Wilson from second, putting Florida ahead 3-2.
“O’Sullivan called my name again, and I was just look-
ing for that clutch hit,” Moyer said. “I’ve been trying to stay positive with not swinging the bat good lately, but coach trusted in me to get the job done.”
But Moyer’s effort was for naught, as the Gators’ nor -
mally stout bullpen gave up the two runs, and the lead, in the ninth.
“If you score three runs, it’s going to 
be a dogfight to the end,” O’Sullivan said. “[UCF] seemed to get a big hit when they needed it.”
Prior to Moyer’s pinch-hit RBI, the Knights kept the 
Gators’ batters off-balance for seven innings with an array of pitchers. UCF emptied its bullpen, as seven pitchers combined 
to hold UF to seven hits on the night and just one run after the first inning.
Aside from starter Chase Bradford, UCF’s pitchers 
were nearly lights-out. Bradford struggled with his con-
trol and gave up a two-RBI single to Austin Maddox, who 
pitched 2.2 scoreless innings of relief.
But that was all the Gators would be able to put to-
gether before Moyer’s late-inning knock.
“I’m not going to make any excuses for our hitters,” 
Maddox said. “We’ve got to do a better job at the plate.”BASEBALL , from page 17
BaseballWEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Special to the Alligator / UF Communications
UF sophomore linebacker Gerald Christian is still adjusting to his 
new position, although he is now working on both sides of the ball.
HUDSON 
RANDALL / 
BASEBALLASHANÉE 
DICKERSON / 
GYMNASTICSKITTY 
CULLEN / 
LACROSSEALEX
CERCONE /
TENNISJEFF 
DEMPS /
TRACK AND FIELDCORY 
McGEE /
TRACK AND FIELDJEREMY
POSTIN / 
TRACK AND FIELD
After throwing a com -
plete-game shutout 
against Tennessee on 
Friday, Randall was named the Southeast-ern Conference Pitcher 
of the Week for the 
second time in the past three weeks. The sophomore pitcher is 
sporting a perfect 5-0 
record and a miniscule 0.54 ERA this season while holding opposing 
hitters to a .189 batting 
average.Dickerson shared Na-
tional Association of 
Collegiate Gymnastics Coaches’ Southeast Re-gion Gymnast of the 
Year honors with Geor -
gia senior Cassidy Mc-
Comb. The sophomore 
All-American, who will 
lead the Gators into the NCAA Championships on April 15-17, is the 
only Florida gymnast to 
ever receive the honor, and she has done so two years in a row.Cullen was named the National Offensive 
Player of the Week by 
WomensLacrosse.com after recording a school-record seven goals in 
Florida’s win over Penn 
State on Saturday. Cul-len, the nation’s leader in goals with 56, also 
took home her second 
consecutive American Lacrosse Conference Offensive Player of the 
Week honor.Cercone was selected 
as the SEC Women’s 
Tennis Freshman of the 
Week after a 4-0 perfor -
mance that included her fifth consecutive singles 
victory in UF’s wins 
over Vanderbilt and Kentucky. Cercone has now received the honor 
three times this season. 
In addition to running her singles record to 7-1, the freshman improved 
to 6-0 in doubles.Demps was named the 
SEC Men’s Runner of 
the Week on Tuesday 
after running the na -
tion’s fastest time in the 100-meter dash in front 
of his home crowd at 
the Florida Relays last weekend. Demps ran a 10.07 (+2.2), the top 
wind-aided mark in 
the world this season. The junior sprinter also anchored the Gators’ 
third-place men’s 4x100-
meter relay team.Two first-place finishes helped McGee earn SEC 
Women’s Freshman of 
the Week honors Tues -
day. She took home the women’s 800-meter run 
with a time of 2:07.45, 
the ninth-best time in the nation, and helped the Gators’ sprint med -
ley relay team win its event at last weekend’s Florida Relays.Postin earned the SEC Men’s Field Athlete of 
the Week award after 
posting a UF-record 65.09m/213-6 mark in the hammer throw at 
last weekend’s Florida 
relays. Postin broke his own record with the performance and cur-
rently ranks ninth in the 
nation and third in the SEC in the event.
Here’s a quick rundown of several Gators who captured weekly and yearly awards in 
their respective sports this week.CB Saunders 
strains hamstring 
said. “(His) head’s spinning a lot and working 
awful hard.”
  Other players whose roles are changing in-
clude sophomores Jaylen Watkins and Cody Riggs, who have spent time at safety after 
working exclusively at cornerback in their 
freshman seasons. 
  Florida’s offensive line has also been mixed 
up this spring, as sophomore and former tackle 
Ian Silberman has made the permanent shift to 
guard and redshirt freshman Chaz Green is playing at both tackle spots. 
  Sophomore Jonotthan Harrison has also 
seen his role change, as the former guard has 
been working at center throughout the spring. 
  INJURY UPDATE: Muschamp added another 
name to Florida’s growing list of spring inju-
ries Tuesday . 
  Freshman cornerback De’Ante Saunders 
strained a hamstring in a recent practice, put-
ting a damper on what Muschamp called “a 
really nice spring.”
  Saunders joins a litany of running backs 
and offensive linemen who have missed prac-tice time due to injury . 
  Currently , redshirt senior Chris Rainey is 
the only running back involved in spring prac-tice, and Muschamp said last week that UF had 
only seven functional offensive linemen. 
  The lack of linemen could lead to a few 
changes in the Orange and Blue Debut, Mus-
champ joked Tuesday . 
  “I may line up at left tackle,” Muschamp 
said. “I wouldn’t want to be the blindside there, 
but we’ll be ﬁ  ne. The kids will work through it 
and we’ll manage it.” FOOTBALL , from page 17more than anything just execute and because of the 
depth issues its tough to carry a lot,” Muschamp said. 
  In other words, don’t get your hopes up about 
learning the ins and outs of every aspect of Flori-da’s new pro-style offense or its multi-formation defense. Don’t expect to leave Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium with all your questions answered.
  Will we know who’s going to start opposite Ja-
noris Jenkins at cornerback this fall? Probably not.
  Will we know how offensive coordinator Char-
lie Weis will use speedy running backs Chris Rainey and Jeff Demps, who are better suited for 
the spread? Don’t count on it, especially given that only Rainey is getting carries this spring.
  Will we have the slightest idea how Florida’s 
offensive line and secondary will develop chem-istry? Absolutely not, especially with the injuries shortening the spring depth chart on the line. 
  Will we even have a clue what the Gators’ start-
ing lineup will look like? Not to sound like a Magic 
8 Ball here, but, “Outlook not so good.”
  And it should be. 
  That’s what spring practice is all about, espe-
cially with the new staff and a group of unproven 
players moving into leadership roles.
  It’s a time where nobody actually knows any-
thing, where everyone’s guess is as good as the 
next person’s — where any player can be as great as you want them to be.
  After a disappointing season and the end of an 
era, Florida fans are simply looking for a reason to be optimistic. 
  And perhaps with spring football, as a new era 
dawns and a number of questions remain unan-swered, ignorance is bliss. ADAM , from page 17
Alexander Silva / Alligator Staff20, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
