We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 40 WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn Check out Page 
9 for an in-depth 
look at former 
Florida defensive 
lineman Troy Epps’ 
journey from col -
lege football to a 
rugby career in New 
Zealand. WEBSTER, Mass. — The health board in a Massachu -
setts town has approved a plan to shame owners of run-
down buildings into fixing and securing their properties.
The plan approved Monday by the Webster board al-
lows the town to place 4-by-8-foot signs on the sides of di-lapidated buildings with the owner’s names, address and telephone number.
Selectman Mark Dowgiewicz says it costs up to $9,000 
per year for police responses and other expenses to deal with squatters, vandals and other problems.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMass. town approves plan to shame property owners n  Florida left-hand -
er Alex Panteliodis 
(right) and the 
rest of the Gators 
pitching staff finally 
let the team down 
Tuesday night, 
giving up five runs 
as UF fell to Florida 
State in Tampa.
See Story, Page 17.
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
A year after the shooting of internation-
al UF graduate student Kofi Adu-Brem-
pong by University Police, UF students and administrators are still working to im-prove policies to prevent such incidents in 
the future.
On March 2, 2010, UPD’s Critical Inci-
dent Response Team received a call about 
a disturbance in a Corry Village apartment on campus.
Adu-Brempong, who is disabled from 
a childhood case of polio, was mentally distressed and screaming loud enough to be heard by his neighbors, who called the 
police. 
After attempting to negotiate with 
Adu-Brempong for about an hour, police 
attempted to subdue him with a Taser and a bean bag round, according to the police report.
When those failed to work, Adu-Brem-
pong  approached the officers, swinging a metal rod.
It was then that Officer Keith Smith 
shot him in the head.
“The entire situation was tragic,” said 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes. “I think once the investigation completed its course, it pretty much reinforced the fact that we do have policies in place that are effective, but that those policies weren’t followed.”
Adu-Brempong, who agreed not to sue 
UF, reached an undisclosed settlement with the university in September, which 
will be funded with alumni donations.
Sunny
75/52
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 17
Special to the Alligator
The door to Kofi Adu-Brempong’s apartment is cordoned off after the UF gradu -
ate student was shot in the face by UPD Officer Keith Smith a year ago today. 
Shooting lingers a year later
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
When the final buzzer sounded on 
the Class of 2011’s Senior Day, four dif-
ferent Gators had secured the ideal end-ings to their home-court careers. 
The trio of Alex Tyus, Vernon Mack-
lin and Chandler Parsons scored in double figures, while Adam Allen saw his first minutes of the season and had the privilege of running out the clock as Florida clinched at least a share of the Southeastern Conference regular-season championship. 
The No. 14 Gators celebrated their 
four seniors in nearly perfect fashion Tuesday night with a 78-51 win over Alabama (19-10, 11-4 SEC) on Tuesday in the O’Connell Center.
“I don’t think it could’ve been script-
ed any better,” UF coach Billy Donovan said. 
With the win, the 
Gators secured at 
least a share of their 
first SEC champion-
ship since the 2006-07 season with the Crimson Tide and gained sole possession of the East title. 
Florida can win the title outright with 
a victory over Vanderbilt or an Alabama loss to Georgia on Saturday.
“I couldn’t be any happier and more 
proud and more excited,” Donovan said. “There hasn’t been a lot of SEC champi-onships in Florida basketball history and for Chandler and Alex and Vernon to have a piece of that … I’m just so happy 
for them.”
UF’s three senior starters combined 
for 50 points and 26 rebounds, nearly 
topping Alabama’s totals of 51 and 29 by themselves. Parsons led the way with a season-high 19 points and 11 boards. UF clinches 
share of 
SEC title
n THREE STUDENTS CLAIM TO HAVE VOTED 
MULTIPLE TIMES, CASTING DOUBT ON THE SECURITY OF THE VOTING PROCESS.
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Student Body President-Elect Ben Meyers gave his good-
bye speech as senate president Tuesday night but noted that he 
wasn’t going too far away. 
He encouraged the new senators to speak up and stand for 
what they believe in. “Don’t just be a vote; don’t be just a number,” he said.
He said Student Senate is a very intimidat-
ing place to be but don’t be afraid and don’t let the position define them. Instead, he encour -
aged them to represent their constituency.
As he choked up when speaking about his 
experience in Senate he said, “[I] don’t want to be John Boehner and lose it.”
Sen. Micah Lewis, a member of the Unite 
Party, ran unopposed to fill the position of Stu-dent Senate president. 
Last week’s Student Government election results were also Senators validate election resultsSEE SHOOTING, p AGE 8
SEE HOOpS, p AGE 18
SEE SENATE, p AGE 8Bask etball
Meyers
“The entire situation was tragic.”
Janine Sikes
UF spokeswomanNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 40 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Brown Bag Lunch Series
Today, 11 a.m.Peabody Hall Room 411UF professor Tace Hedrick ex-plores gender implications in the “Twilight” book series in this edition of the Brown Bag Lunch Series. Refreshments will be provided.
Through Their Eyes: The 
Rhythms of West AfricaToday, 11:45 a.m. UF International CenterThis presentation will feature Mohamed DaCosta, a profes-sor with the School of Theatre and Dance and the Center for 
African Studies. Come out to 
learn more about the music of 
West Africa from one of the few practice-based cultural authorities on the traditional 
performing arts of Africa cur -
rently living in the U.S.
Violent Secession: Evidence from 
the Former Soviet UnionToday, 11:45 a.m.
Turlington Hall Room 3312
Attend a talk by Scott Feinstein and the Center for European Studies. Find out what his re-
search has uncovered about 
why some Soviet successor 
states experienced violent se-cessionist rebellion following independence in 1991. Within 10 of these countries, ethnic minorities threatened further rebellion, secession or violence. However, only five resorted to wide-scale violence and civil war in pursuit of separatist goals.
Dynamo Meeting: The Wisconsin 
Protests Today, 6 p.m. Matherly Hall Room 151The topic for this week will be the collective bargaining debate, couched in the wider issue of state budget deficits, with a particular focus on where current action rests: namely, Wisconsin. The group will be discussing the merits of the political action taken by all relevant actors in the debate to develop a more cogent under -held hearings to determine 
whether Darwin’s long-held theory of evolution should be challenged in public-school science curriculum. At stake 
was, in effect, the definition of 
science for Kansas schoolchil-dren.
1st Annual Gainesville Rugby St. 
Patrick’s Golf TournamentMarch 19, 1 p.m.West End Golf CourseEntry is $35 for individu-als or $120 for a team of four. Registration includes the green fee, cart and a reception. For 
more details go to  gainesville-
rugbyclub.com/golf.htm.
Hustle for Humanity 3K/6K
March 26, 8 a.m.UF Commuter LotThe top three runners in the men’s division and the wom-en’s division will each win a prize. T-shirts will be pro-
vided to the first 25 people 
who register, and food will be provided after the race to all participants. Register online at ufhabitat.org. It costs $15 to pre-register and $20 on the day of registration. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.
org. Please model your sub-
missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.standing of the issue.
Psychology Club & Psi Chi 
Meeting
Today, 7:20 p.m.Little Hall Room 101
Dr. Shepperd will be the guest 
speaker. As always, come 
early for pizza. For more in-
formation and updates, join the group on Facebook or go 
to psych.ufl.edu/~psichi.
Flow: Open Mic Night
Today, 7 p.m.
Orange and Brew
Poets, INC. will be hosting an 
open mic night to provide a 
venue for students and local 
artists to give them a chance to share their poetry, music 
and verbal original pieces.   
All opinions are valued and 
accepted. Admission is free.
DU Got Talent
Thursday, 6:30 p.m.
:08 NightclubDelta Upsilon Fraternity 
is holding its annual tal-
ent show and competition 
to raise money for the Boys 
and Girls Club of America. 
Everyone is invited to come out, have a good time and raise money for the kids.  Cover is $5 in advance and $6 at the door.
A Spring of Hope Meeting
Thursday, 6:15 p.m.Matherly Hall Room 14
Come out to join a great cause 
and enjoy some free pizza and refreshments. Also check out  
the website at aspringofhope.org.
Kansas vs. Darwin 
Through FridayLibraries on campusA documentary about the Kansas evolution hearings. In May of 2005, a three-member subcommittee of the Kansas State Board of Education 
THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
76/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
74/55SUNNY
75/52
WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Dom Famularo, also known as “Drumming’s Global Ambassador,” and Shinedown drummer Barry Kerch-
sign drumsticks in the UF Bookstore on Tuesday afternoon at a book signing.
ON CAMPUS
By CRISTINA PANEQUE 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Sticks and stones may break 
bones, but “Sticks ‘n’ Skins” 
broke eardrums at the UF Book-
store on Tuesday. 
Jules Follett, an entertainment 
photographer, came to UF to sign 
copies of her newly released book “Sticks ‘n’ Skins: A Photography Book About the World of Drum-ming.”
She promoted her book in 34 
cities in 2010 and hopes to hit 50 
this year.
This is the first published 
coffee-table book for drummers, 
she said. It is 564 pages long and weighs 8.8 pounds. It is filled with photographs of 516 drum-mers at concerts, music festivals and clinics.
Follett spent two-and-a-half 
years working on the project, traveling to 53 cities and  pho-tographing drummers.  She said she was attracted to the project because it was something that had not been done before.
Follett had little knowledge of 
drumming when she began the project.“I can’t even hum a tune,” she 
said. “I don’t sing in church be-cause I don’t think God would like it.”
She said the brotherhood be-
tween drummers is different than the relationships between other musicians. They are more like a family and that is what made the book possible, she said.
“One drummer gives you 10 
more,” Follett said. “I feel a re-sponsibility to give back to the drumming community since they made it so easy. They’ve been so supportive of the book.”
Dom Famularo, a drummer 
featured in the book, performed at the book signing and gave free lessons to 12 people.
“Drumming is about passion,” 
Famularo said. “I am 57 years young and I’m still doing what I love doing.”Drummers perform at photographer’s book signingBy MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer 
A safe ride home is only a text away.
The UF Nightlife Navigators, a division of Student Gov-
ernment, will try out a new text messaging system intended to aid students in getting home safely after a night downtown. 
Members of Nightlife Navigators will go out to a variety 
of bars and clubs in midtown and downtown Gainesville and give students wristbands printed with a phone number. Stu-dents will be able to text the number and receive an automatic reply with the phone numbers for GOTCHA Ride, ZipCart and taxis in Gainesville.
“We want to give students safe and cheap alternatives to 
get home safe,” said Ryan Garcia, the director of outreach for 
Nightlife Navigators.
The system is currently in final prepa-
rations. A one- or two-night test run will occur after Spring Break. 
While the text messaging system will only be used for a 
few nights, the phone numbers given to students are available 
for use at all times.  GOTCHA Ride CEO and founder Sean Flood praised SG 
for its effort in providing students with an easy way to reach 
the company.
“Giving students a number to text is the way to go,” Flood 
said. “It’s a significantly better way to reach college students 
than [giving out] fliers.”
UF freshman Deidre Cheeves believes the new system will 
make students aware of all their options.
“I think it’s great because you won’t always have to call 
SNAP or look for a bus anymore,” Cheeves said. “It’s just a lot more convenient.”Texting system will help students get home safely
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
In light of the recent slashing of state 
and federal funding, Alachua County 
Board of County Commissioners dis-
cussed Tuesday how those cuts could affect county employees.
County Manager Randall Reid said 
county employees haven’t received 
raises in four years even though the 
Gainesville City Commission and UF have given raises to their employees.
“It is frustrating for them to see that 
other entities are giving raises and we’re not,” he said.
He cautioned that the big-ticket items 
the county is considering, such as a pro-gram to assess storm water and a new 
roof for the Alachua County Jail, could 
drain money the county needs to retain good employees.
County Commissioner Mike Byerly 
said he believes the best way to ap-proach the budget is to distribute funds to departments based on projects. For example, instead of giving the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office a set amount and leaving it to distribute the money to its various programs, the Commission would decide how much 
money would go to the jail, patrol and 
other services.
Byerly also said that since the Com-
mission had issues with the Sheriff Of-fice’s budget last year, it should take a 
closer look at the mon-ey it distributes.
“The sheriff ended 
up not accepting that 
budget but suing us,” he said.
He said he would 
like for county depart-ments, including the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office, to cre-ate a list of what’s important in the de-partment and what isn’t.
“If [the sheriff] doesn’t want to pro-
vide a list of those things, then I’m go-ing to go in there and find them,” Byerly said.County weighs budget cuts
 EIGHT HOSPITALS STATEWIDE 
ARE PART OF THE NETWORK. 
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
A new network of Florida hospitals 
is working to provide babies born with 
a high risk of brain injury with the inno-
vative treatments they need to survive. 
Each year, 10 to 15 babies are born 
at Shands at UF with the potential for brain injury, Dr. Michael Weiss said. 
This may be the result of a problem with 
the placenta or the umbilical cord, such as if the cord wraps around the baby’s neck and restricts oxygen flow. 
Problems like these are why Weiss 
helped form the Florida Neonatal Neu-rologic Network, a statewide, eight-hos-pital network dedicated to providing treatments for infant brain injury. 
For example, a prominent therapy 
called “cooling,” which lowers a baby’s body temperature by about three de-grees in an effort to decrease the risk 
of brain damage, can help save one in eight babies from brain injury but isn’t 
widely available throughout the state, Weiss said.
He said there are plans to expand the 
treatment to other health care facilities 
in Florida. 
“The thing we can do immediately is 
make sure all babies in the state of Flor -
ida are near facilities that use cooling,” 
Weiss said.
The network officially launches in 
July and also will conduct medical re-search using information from its mem-
ber hospitals. The Clinical 
and Translational Science 
Institute at UF made an in-kind donation providing a 
database system, said Jim Lennon, assis -
tant director of finance for the institute.
In addition to doctors, the network 
includes scientists who are able to re-search new treatments that can help the infants not saved by cooling therapy. 
“The purpose of the network mov-
ing forward is that cooling is only going to help one in eight babies,” Weiss said. “We really want to help those other sev-en babies.”Hospitals help prevent 
brain injuries in babies
PublicHealth
Reid
StudentGovernment
“I don’t sing in church 
because I don’t think       
God would like it.”
Jules Follett
entertainment photographerWEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Alex Kaufman / Alligator
Bird is the Word
A great egret dries off on a fallen tree Sunday afternoon at Lake Wauburg. Students can 
boat among an abundance of wildlife, including fish, birds and alligators. The park will be closed starting Saturday for Spring Break but is normally open from Tuesday to Sunday.
n THE GAINESVILLE IHOP
EXPECTED TO GIVE AWAY 6,000 FREE PANCAKES.
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
LaToya Carter walked into IHOP 
for some breakfast. 
However, the 21-year-old civil 
engineering student did not know 
her breakfast would be for a cause.
Carter participated in National 
Pancake Day Tuesday, when IHOP Restaurant gave away free three-pancake short stacks from 7 a.m. until 10 p.m.
The restaurant was fully seated 
and fully staffed, with patrons wait-ing in the lobby , cooks scrambling in the kitchen and servers bustling 
around the restaurant, trying to 
accommodate the customers who packed the building.
“At about 10 a.m., we start a 
waiting list, and that waiting list [goes] ‘til about 10 p.m. tonight,”  said Michael V elzke, a 39-year-old IHOP assistant manager.
What is sometimes lost in the 
flapjack free-for-all is that the event is for charity. After placing an order for an omelet, hash browns and a short stack, Carter made a $1 do-nation to the Children’s Miracle 
Network by purchasing a balloon-
shaped donation card. 
Over the past five years, the Sun-
shine Restaurant Partners franchise, which owns IHOPs in Florida and 
Georgia, has garnered $5.2 million for the charity , V elzke said. 
“It’s all about the 
children,” said IHOP general man-ager Scott Stazzone.“It’s what we can do to help our little ones.”
When National Pancake Day 
rolled around last year, Gaines-ville’s IHOP alone gave away 1,950 short stacks, or 5,850 pancakes. This year, Stazzone said, the restaurant expects to give away 2,000 short 
stacks. 
Though IHOP does not profit, 
V elzke said, the product exposure 
afforded by the free pancake event doesn’t hurt.IHOP treats diners 
to free pancakes
NewsLocal
HIGH SPEED RAIL
ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Two state 
senators, one a Democrat and 
the other a Republican, asked 
the Florida Supreme Court on 
Tuesday to order Gov. Rick Scott to accept $2.4 billion in federal stimulus funds for a high speed 
rail project.
Sens. Thad Altman, a Viera 
Republican, and Arthenia Joyner, 
a Tampa Democrat, argue that a state law passed during a spe-
cial legislative session in 2009 re-
quires the new Republican gov-ernor to take the money for the Tampa-Orlando bullet train.
The emergency petition also al-
leges Scott’s refusal to accept the funding violates the separation of powers doctrine in the Florida Constitution because that would 
effectively reduce state appro-
priations, which is an exclusive function of the Legislature.
“This is not a monarchy,” 
Joyner said at a news conference. “He’s not a king. This is a democ-racy.”
“People of different philoso-
phies can agree that our consti-
tutional democracy needs to be 
protected,” Altman said. “That system of government is in crisis, is in jeopardy.”
Scott, a former health care ex-
ecutive with no prior government experience, has said he’s opposed to the high speed rail project be-cause he believes state taxpayers 
would be stuck with billions in 
cost overruns and operating sub-sidies.
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood gave Scott until Fri-day to accept a modified plan for 
local governments to manage the 
project instead of the state after the two met last week in Wash-ington. 
LaHood says that revision will 
absolve Florida of legal and fi-nancial liability.
Scott, though, has given no in-
dication he’ll accept the federal 
money. 
Just hours after his meeting 
with LaHood he blasted the proj-
ect as “a federal boondoggle.”The Florida Supreme Court 
later ordered Scott to file a reply 
to the lawsuit by noon Wednes-
day.
Scott issued a statement criti-
cizing the two senators but not responding to the legal issue they 
have raised.
“My position remains un-
changed, I’ve yet to see any 
evidence that Florida taxpay-
ers would not be on the hook,” 
Scott said. “Senators Altman and Joyner’s disrespect for taxpayers is clear by their lawsuit trying to force the state to spend this mon-ey.”
Senate President Mike Harido-
polos, R-Merritt Island, said in a 
statement that he did not support 
the lawsuit because he believes neither the state nor the county can afford the project.
Joyner and Altman have asked 
the Supreme Court to expedite the case due to the looming dead-line. 
At the request of the two state 
lawmakers, U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., also asked LaHood to push back the deadline.
Joyner and Altman are being 
represented without charge by Melbourne lawyer Clifton Mc-Clelland Jr.
A tea party favorite, Scott has 
been a constant critic of Demo-
cratic President Barack Obama 
and his stimulus program
Altman, though, said Scott ap-
parently isn’t against accepting 
stimulus money because he has 
written LaHood suggesting that Florida instead be allowed to use the rail funds for port improve-ments.
The money, though, will be 
redistributed to high speed rail projects in other states if Florida doesn’t take it.
“Sending $2.4 billion to anoth-
er state would be a colossal mis-take,” Altman said. “We just hope the governor gets out of the way of innovation.”
Florida stands to become a 
high speed rail manufacturing center as a result of the project, 
Altman said. 
He said that would be an ideal 
way to employ thousands of Flor -
ida’s aerospace workers who will be losing their jobs as the space 
shuttle program winds down.
“We’re talking jobs, jobs, jobs,” 
Joyner said.
The high speed rail project is 
expected to produce 24,000 di-rect and thousands more indirect jobs, she said, noting Scott cam-paigned on a job creation plat-
form last year.
“This is what he said he wants 
to do, and we want the court to 
look at his retrenching, or his stepping back,” she said.Bipartisan lawsuit says Florida must take rail money
AP Photo
Charles Paleveda, left, argues with a wall of high-speed rail supporters as they participate in a rally to 
support it at City Hall Plaza in downtown Tampa on Monday. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Have you visited another country?
78 TOTAL VOTES72% YES28% NOTuesday’s question: Have you ever played four square?  Remember that 30 percent tuition increase UF Presi-
dent Bernie Machen proposed? It looks like that in-crease would hit students even harder because the 
Florida Legislature has to make cuts to Bright Futures af-ter it convenes on March 8.  
There’s talk of dropping the current top-tier $3,750 
scholarship to $2,900. Our lawmakers are considering 
other options, such as restricting the awards to financially 
needy recipients. Another proposal encourages them to force graduates to repay their awards if they leave Florida after receiving their degrees.
There’s a better way to cut costs and reap more benefits 
for the state.
 We have to raise our standards for receiving the award. 
The current system gives money to students scoring a 970 on the SAT, which is below the national average of 1017. 
We aren’t supposed to be rewarding students who per -
form in the realm of mediocrity and inflate their GPAs; the 
program was designed to keep our best and brightest in the state, preventing a brain drain. The fact that 98 percent of UF students qualify for the award speaks to our need to 
restrict it. Raising the bar will not only save the program 
money; it will drive students to perform better in school and on tests. 
Of course, the legislature is looking at this idea, but 
they are only considering raising  the requirement for the lower-tier award by 10 points and gradually working up year after year. Why not bump it up to the 75th percentile of SAT scores now? To receive a merit-based scholarship, it’s not unreasonable to expect a student to perform better 
than three-fourths of his or her peers.
Some say this will eliminate a disproportionate per -
centage of minorities from the pool of award recipients, 
but those numbers speak to a separate, much larger prob-
lem of SAT scores and school performance correlating to 
income when income still relates to race.
However, the politicians are considering steering Bright 
Futures toward a need-based scholarship. We think that coupling a reasonable financial cap with a higher academ-
ic standard would solve the current problem. For instance, 
the state could award money to students who meet the SAT and GPA requirements but disqualify them if their parents make over $200,000 a year. That’s an arbitrary 
number, but there should come a point when the family is 
logically able to support our state’s bargain-priced higher education. Turning Bright Futures into a completely need-based program is unnecessary, but using a multitude of criteria seems warranted in this case.
As for those proposing that students repay their schol-
arship if they leave the state after graduation, where’s our reason to stay? The weather and beaches only take us so far: We need jobs. And a halfway sane governor wouldn’t 
hurt. 
Sure, watching our grads leave the state shows the pro-
gram isn’t accomplishing its original objective by keeping 
our best students in the state’s workforce. However, when the job market is back on the upswing, this won’t be such 
a problem.
In the meantime, we ask that our lawmakers make the 
obvious choice instead of entertaining ridiculous ideas.Asking Too Little
Bright Futures should up 
its standards
Study abroad vibe available at home
Everyone wants to study abroad. You rarely come 
across anyone who looks back on their experience negatively. They have their stories, and when they 
recount one, there are smiles on their faces and a twin-kles in their eyes that tell you how much they value those 
memories.
If asked to say something interesting about them-
selves, people may be inclined to say, “I studied abroad 
in [insert country] for a semester.” The conversation may evolve into a shared interest in a language, a culture or the desire to make out with someone simply because of their accent. This is interesting. But the conversation could also turn to the death knell topics of major, home-town and career. Yawn. If I wanted to discuss topics like 
that, I’d be at home with my parents and family friends, 
listening to opinions I neither share nor endorse, sipping a mediocre American lager in lieu of answering a ques-tion for the ump-teenth time.
Everyone knows about the good times abroad, and 
everyone knows what a stale question is. Yet most people don’t realize that location need not weigh in as a factor determining whether you’ll recycle the same small talk with the same people or choose something more.
You would say that a large part of why you had fun 
abroad was the people that live there, correct? 
I have amazing news for you: Tons of them go to your 
school. That’s right, for the low cost of free, you can meet some of these amazing people indigenous to the lands you love traveling. And yet, many people do not take ad-vantage of this. It is baffling.
Had a great time in Berlin? There are two German girls 
standing in line to get food ahead of you. Did you party 
in Beirut? Talk about it with that Lebanese engineer. Do 
you like authentic Asian food? I’ve had conversations with Koreans that started out based solely on a mutual love for kimchi. If you are raising your eyebrows, rest as-sured that it is  possible to talk about fermented cabbage for half an hour.
Unfortunately, most humans 
find homogeneity both safe and acceptable. By nature of hang-
ing out with people similar to you, you aren’t around 
those who are different. You ask the same questions and 
give out tired answers. I’m looking at you, fraternal or -
ders. I’m also looking at you, international students. For you, being in Florida is studying abroad. Do you want to spend your time here going out of your way to hang out with people as similar to you as you could find? It is im-portant to question when this kind of behavior is based on a real connective experience with someone else or if it’s just a safety blanket.
For those who grew up stateside, an amazing thing 
happens when one starts to become good friends with non-Americans: Your views are challenged. Interacting with someone different makes even your basic, stale questions interesting. You  realize the observations you are inundated with come from a single culture, a tun-nel-vision perspective. When you open a dialogue with someone who grew up very different from you, it be-comes easy to listen to views that differ from your own, 
because the person you are talking to is speaking from 
personal experience. 
The world is getting smaller every day. I have more 
in common with someone my age from the Netherlands than with people who grew up in the same area of Flori-da 20 years earlier. With the advent of social networking and Skype, it’s easy to stay in touch with people. Hav-ing an international network of friends is a good feeling. It gives you reason to travel abroad again. Maybe you 
can meet their friends from their home, and maybe, just 
maybe, you’ll be less inclined to ask everyone what their major is.
Wesley Campbell is a fifth-year English major. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Wesley Campbell
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Citizens never unanimous in support
Zack Smith made a great point in his 
Monday column, “Planned Parenthood’s 
funds need a trim.” Not everything the government pays for is supported by every citizen of this nation. I personally do not 
support the wars our country is currently 
fighting nor do I support giving tax exemp-tion to churches. 
If his worry is the deficit, I have a solu-
tion. Let’s tax wealthy churches who get free property and tax exemption while their pas-tors become rich. I’m not a Christian, so why should I have to pay taxes when they don’t?
If the government were to cancel every-
thing someone opposes, we wouldn’t have any social programs, and chances are we wouldn’t have a government.
Lance Duff
UF student
n n n
Prioritizing organic foods for a budget 
Thanks for printing Ashley Bray’s col-
umn on organic foods last week. It had some 
good advice, although I would argue that local production affects taste more so than 
choosing between organic and nonorganic. 
Nonetheless, I agree that the health benefits 
of organic food are worth striving for, and 
that those on a limited budget can employ a strategy of mixing organic and convention-
al, because eating all organic foods would 
be too expensive. For anyone wanting to try 
this, an invaluable tool is the “Dirty Doz-
en” list, which details the produce with the highest levels of pesticide residues. 
Dimitri Blondel
UF studentLetters to the Editor
In the event of a national emergency, the president 
should be able to shut off access to the Internet for our safety. Yeah, it doesn’t make sense to me either. But that 
seems to be the argument behind S.3480, the Protecting Cy-berspace as a National Asset Act, a 197-page bill that would grant the government vast new powers over the Internet in the name of cybersecurity.
If you’re wondering why our elected officials might want 
the ability to stop Americans from communicating with each other, you need only look to Egypt. There, a wave of protests, organized largely over Facebook, has unseated the nation’s tyrannical ruler. In an effort to quell the protests, 
Egypt’s government disconnected 80 service providers at 
5:20 p.m. on Jan. 17, according to a Jan. 28 Arbor Networks article. The entire country was virtually shut off from the Internet.
S.3480, sponsored by Sen. Joseph Lieberman, would 
give the president the power to do just that. In an Aug. 11, 2010, column, lawyer and Time writer Adam Cohen wrote, “Imagine a president misusing this particular power: If the people are rising up against an unpopular administration, 
the president could cool things down by shutting off a large 
swath of the Internet.”
Lieberman insists the bill is not intended to stifle free 
speech. Yet Lieberman, the former running mate of Al Gore, 
has a long record of advancing Orwellian policies aimed 
at expanding the government and trampling personal lib-erty. Lieberman has held congressional hearings on offen-sive music, tried to amend the Espionage Act to prosecute WikiLeaks and has been a staunch advocate of the Patriot 
Act. Lieberman is a longtime supporter of “Christians Unit-
ed for Israel,” which overtly advocates a preemptive mili-tary strike against Iran.
When Lieberman defended his bill in a June 20, 2010, in-
terview with CNN, he cited China as an example of good cybersecurity. “Right now China, the government, can dis-connect parts of its Internet in case of war,” Lieberman said. 
“We need to have that here too.” 
China’s draconian control of the Internet has little to do 
with war; in June 2009, the Chinese government completely shut down the Internet across north-
western Xinjiang to silence a wave of dissent, according to a May 14, 2010, 
article in the Guardian.
It’s difficult to think of a scenario where shutting off ma-
jor Internet providers would make Americans safer. If “cy-
ber terrorists” want to shut down our infrastructure, we’ll 
respond by shutting down our infrastructure?
On the other hand, it’s easy to think of ways in which, as 
in Egypt and China, an oppressive government could abuse 
this power to stem the free flow of information and ideas.
The bill would work by creating a new agency within the 
Department of Homeland Security, the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications, or NCCC. 
If the president decided to shut off Internet access, any 
private company reliant on the Internet would become “sub-
ject to command” by the NCCC and would be required to 
“immediately comply with any emergency measure or ac-tion,” including “information sharing,” or else face charges, according to a June 17, 2010, article published in the Huff-ington Post.
FDR’s Communications Act of 1934 already gives the 
president the authority to shut down “wire communica-tions” during “a state or threat of war.” The new bill, how-ever, would remove this precondition. The president could 
pull the plug on Internet providers whenever he deemed it 
necessary.
Short of an armed populace, the Internet is an oppressive 
government’s worst fear. 
It allows for a nearly limitless amount of simultaneous 
speech and makes total surveillance and regulation next to impossible. 
The governments of Egypt and China would not have 
shut the Internet down if it weren’t vastly more difficult to 
manage and control it.
Americans can use the Internet as a vital tool to safe-
guard our inalienable rights. Or, as in Egypt and China, we can allow the government to assume control of it under the 
pretext of taking care of us.
 Kansas State Collegian, Kansas State U. via UWIREInternet use becoming inalienable rightUWire
Ian Huyett
UWireTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI — When President Ba-
rack Obama and former Florida 
Gov. Jeb Bush stand side by side at a Miami high school on Friday , it will be an opportunity for the Democrat 
to show a bipartisan approach to 
education reform while allowing the Republican to push his own nation-wide message on the issue.
Obama and Bush have common 
ground on education. Both support increasing the number of charter schools, tying teacher evaluations to student performance on standard-
ized tests and setting high standards 
and accountability. They also believe education is key to invigorating U.S. competitiveness.
With Obama aiming to rewrite 
the No Child Left Behind Act — signed into law by the governor’s brother, former President George W. Bush, no less — observers say the 
joint appearance can benefit both.
“Like with everything in politics, it’s mutual convenience,” said Jack 
Jennings, president of the Center for Education Policy and former general counsel of the House Committee on Education and Labor.
Obama and Jeb Bush will ap-
pear at Miami Central Senior High School, one of hundreds of low-per -
forming schools across the nation that have received money from the U.S. Department of Education to ex-ecute one of four turnaround mod-els. Bush selected the school as an example of a school that has made gains through reform.
“Because of high expectations for 
students, hard-edge policies that fo-
cus schools on learning and an array 
of choices for families, the Sunshine State is leading the nation in rising student achievement,” Bush said in a statement. “I look forward to sharing Florida’s model for student success with President Obama and Secretary Duncan.”
One of Bush’s legacies during his 
eight years as governor, which end-ed in January 2007, was an overhaul of Florida’s school system.
Public schools are now graded 
on a scale of A to F and are rewarded or punished based on their grades. Bush continues to push Florida-style education changes around the country through the Foundation for 
Excellence in Ed-
ucation. A num-ber of states are in the process of adopting similar reforms.
Obama has 
pushed like-minded reforms 
through the $4.35 
billion Race to the Top program, 
which rewards schools for taking on ambitious reforms to close achieve-ment gaps and improve student per -
formance. The initiative has prompt-ed states to adopt Common Core standards and led to an increase in the number of charter schools and 
changes in the way teachers are evaluated.
“Both of them have pushed the 
envelope,” said former West Virginia 
Gov. Bob Wise, president of the Alli-
ance for Excellent Education. “Both 
of them have been willing to go out on issues that are controversial.”
White House officials say the 
joint meeting shows the president believes education is not a Republi-can or Democratic issue.
Obama has sought to show a 
broader sense of outreach to the 
GOP after his own party took a beat-
ing in the midterm elections as well as a willingness to work across party lines.
Toward that end Obama will be 
appearing alongside the brother of a president he constantly assailed during his own 2008 campaign.
“The president working with 
Gov . Bush, working with leaders across the aisle, is hugely important for leading the country to where we need to go,” Duncan said on a con-ference call with reporters Tuesday , citing a range of figures that show United States students trailing be-hind students in other countries. “We need to put politics and ideol-
ogy to the side.”
Duncan will also attend the event. 
Central High received $784,700 in 
Title I School Improvement Grant funds in 2009. It has 1,826 students, many of whom come from low-in-come families.
While Obama and Jeb Bush share 
many ideas, Jennings noted they do 
have some differences. Bush is un-
likely to support increases in educa-tion spending and Obama is not a supporter of school vouchers.
“He certainly does not have a 
traditional Democratic education program, which would emphasize new programs and money,” Jen-nings said of Obama. “A number 
of his reforms are very agreeable to 
Republicans; lifting the cap on char -
ter schools, tying teacher pay to test scores. Those are things that Repub-licans like.”validated during the senate meeting.
Gillian Leytham, the new Progress Party senator for the 
law seat, asked the senators not to validate the results be-cause of the potential voter fraud. 
As first reported in the Alligator, three students came for -
ward stating they had voted multiple times in various loca-tions during the spring elections. 
“Even though I am one of those who would most benefit 
from the results,” she said, “respectfully I ask that we wait.” 
Joe Pardo, the Unite Party sophomore senator, encour -
aged the senate to validate the results because he said there were no close races.
“We need to have a functioning senate,” he said. “Let’s 
validate the election and start.”
Election Commission Chairwoman Georgia Buckhalter 
said no complaints were filed in Sunday’s commission meet-ing about election results.
The senate also unanimously passed a resolution oppos-
ing the 30 percent tuition increase proposed by UF President Bernie Machen to counter Gov. Rick Scott’s budget cuts to state education.8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011
Aundre Larrow / Alligator
Student Government senators vote for Outstanding Committee Chair Members on Tuesday night. New senators 
were also inducted after a majority vote to pass the results despite claims of students voting multiple times.
Senate also passed a resolution opposing a 30 percent tuition hike
SENATE , from page 1
President Machen proposed the formation of a UPD advisory committee
Sikes said since the shooting last March, 
the university, the Dean of Students Office, 
UPD and student mental-health services have 
made adjustments to compensate for similar 
crises should they happen in the future. 
She said more counselors have been hired 
and new training requirements have been im-plemented for UPD, campus mental-health counselors and employees in the Dean of Stu-dents Office. 
According to Sikes, UF President Bernie 
Machen recently proposed the formation of a campus advisory committee for UPD. 
Machen will name the members of the eight-
person committee,  comprised of students, faculty, staff and UPD officers, in the next couple of weeks.“This is a year-round, perpetual advisory 
board that will be a sounding board on cam-pus issues and police relationships with the community at large,” Sikes said. 
However, some students are still dissatis-
fied with the handling of the shooting and have even more changes in mind. 
Members of the Coalition for Justice 
Against Police Brutality, a student group that 
spoke out against the university’s handling of 
the situation last spring, is planning another protest before giving a list of proposed ac-tions to the university administration today. 
Among the demands the group is mak-
ing is the firing of the officer who shot Adu-Brempong with an assault rifle.
Jose Soto, a member of the group and the 
student senator for Corry Village, said Smith 
has a history of targeting minorities around 
Gainesville.Adu-Brempong originally faced charges 
of aggravated assault and resisting arrest, but State Attorney Bill Cervone dismissed his case in June.
After the shooting, Smith was put on paid 
leave by the department and was reinstated after internal investigations were concluded in July.
Smith’s commanding officer, Lt. Stacy Et-
tel, was not reinstated. Sikes said the university’s investiga-tion concluded that Smith was simply obeying orders, and the 
blame was not his.
Still, Soto said the coalition believes Smith 
has been irresponsible in his role as a police officer in the past, and his history of targeting minorities makes him a “rotten apple” in the 
university police force.
“We see him as somebody we don’t need in the Gator Nation,” Soto said.
The group is also demanding the creation 
of a UPD review board, which would receive 
input on actions regarding the police depart-ment, such as allowing Smith to be reinstated and put back on the Critical Incident Re-sponse Team.
Soto said a review board would be a step 
beyond the advisory committee that Machen 
proposed. 
“We’ve seen ups and downs, but all in all 
there’s room to improve the police services at 
UF,” he said.
Sikes said the administration has yet to re-
ceive any input from the group about the new advisory committee. Such a review board, she said, is not permissible by law. 
“Certainly we’ll listen to what they have 
to say, and we’ll see what happens after that,” she said.
SHOOTING , from page 1NATIONAL
NewsLocalObama, former Gov. Bush to visit Miami high school
Obama
“Even though I am one of those who would 
most benefit from the results, respectfully         
I ask that we wait.”
Gillian Leytham
Progress Party senator for the law seatBy JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
Three weeks before a former Gators 
football player was scheduled to de-part, making his dream come true, 
an earthquake nearly destroyed his destina-tion. 
Buildings crumbled, streets buckled 
and as many as 159 people perished in 
a 6.3 magnitude quake that devastated Christchurch, New Zealand, on Feb. 22. 
A day and a phone call later, Troy Epps 
already knew what he was going to do. 
Like any weight room fanatic, he doesn’t 
look like the kind a person who would be scared of much. 
His bulky arms and upper body ap-
pear almost disproportionate to his 6-foot frame. 
Even though he’s a big guy, Epps doesn’t 
quite look like a lineman anymore. 
He lost 40 pounds of his football weight 
by playing club rugby at UF, and he did it so well, he was offered a shot to go train at a college in New Zealand.
Along with his tattoos and diamond 
studs, he projects an intimidating pres-ence until he grins or talks about his play-ing days.
If Epps starts doing either, it’s hard to 
make him stop.
On the phone, Epps said the quake 
won’t ruin his second chance at a career in athletics. 
His Kiwi coach told him the night be-
fore that most of the destroyed buildings were just old. 
He will have nothing to worry about 
when he flies to Wellington, New Zealand, on March 15. 
“I already bought my ticket anyways,” 
he said.
From touchdowns to tries
By the end of his final season playing 
football for the Gators, Epps’ career had become a statistic.
He had weathered the weekly work-
outs, the weekends spent on the bench and the months of rehab for a wrecked knee to finally crack Florida’s defensive line rota-
tion in his last year of eligibility.
Yet, his efforts still weren’t enough. 
Epps’ NFL Pro Day came and went. 
There were no scouts salivating at his 
40-yard-dash time. No agents were stalk-ing him around Gainesville.
He had become one of the estimated 
8,690 college football players each year, 
according to the NFL Players Union, who 
are told they will never see a Sunday in 
uniform.
“I come from a school that is renowned 
for football, for sending people to the NFL,” Epps said. “Unfortunately, I wasn’t one of 
those people. I worked for it, though, but I 
still wasn’t chosen.”
He could have stayed at UF, taken two 
more classes and received his Family, 
Youth and Community Sciences degree, or 
he could head north to try his luck in the Canadian Football League. 
“I felt like a degree was more impor -
tant,” Epps said. “So, I came back to school 
and finished up.”
Even with a goal set in his mind, Epps became impatient with being a student un-less the tag of athlete accompanied it. 
He wanted to stay in shape somehow, 
so he decided it was time to start playing 
something — anything — again.
Unfortunately, he found there aren’t 
many university club teams for a 260-pound behemoth with a mentality meant for con-tact sports can revel in. 
Games with Frisbees and pretend zom-
bies usually don’t suit people with arms like Howitzer cannons.  
Epps was in need of something chal-
lenging. 
As he first read down the list of Flori-
da’s club teams, nothing stood out.
Then, he found UF Rugby.
Into the ruck
Epps had never really heard of the sport 
before. It didn’t sound like anything an 
American would play, let alone someone 
who grew up deep in the backwoods of the 
South Carolina Piedmont.
After his first practice, though, he could 
tell rugby was his game.
“Not to take anything away from foot-
ball, but they had some really tough play-ers out there,” he said. “It’s a real man’s 
sport. There’s no blocking in it, none whatsoever, and there’s no pads. It’s basi-cally like you’re putting your body on the 
line.”
Within a few weeks, Epps had made his 
way up through the backup and reserve 
rugby teams. 
Despite his limited knowledge of the 
game, he was too talented and too natural-
ly gifted to be left off Gator Rugby’s “A” 
side for very long.
He also quickly earned a new nick-
name: Tank.
“We had to move him fast because he 
couldn’t play on the lesser teams because he was just too big, he could hurt some-one,” Gator Rugby assistant coach Mike Lane said. 
“His physical presence was just impres-
sive. He could do anything.”  
After asking Epps if he would like to try to make a new career out of rugby, Lane sent game tape to Scott Hanson, head rugby coach at Linwood College in Christchurch, to see if he would be interested in taking a 
look at the former football player.
The coach replied, impressed by what 
he saw on the tape. He offered Epps a free 
ride and financial aid to fly out to New 
Zealand and play for the school, while 
also training with famed All-Blacks scrum coach Mike Cron.
“It felt awesome. I never thought in my 
life that I’d go across the world to play a 
sport that I’d never knew existed in Amer -
ica,” Epps said. “I just felt so privileged. 
So, hopefully, I can progress in the game and make a name for myself.”
The plan is for Epps to train at the col-
lege through the summer, starting this  month with Cron and two younger play-ers from the All-Blacks. 
“They’re brothers. They’re both weight 
room nuts just like Tank is, and they are all the same size,” Lane said. “He’ll fit in well there with his personality and his de-votion to athletics.”
Epps will also get a chance to watch 
and interact with some of the top interna-tional players and teams over the summer when New Zealand hosts the 2011 Rugby World Cup.
His dream now is to be on the next USA 
Eagles squad and participate in the cup four years from now. 
But Epps knows doing so will likely 
require a professional career overseas, 
meaning more time away from his family 
in South Carolina.Leaving home for the scrum
Epps has three loves in his life: his 
mom, his sister and his girlfriend. 
But recently, he added rugby to that 
list.
At first, it was difficult to explain to 
his mother that he would be leaving their home in Union, S.C., after he had already 
left twice in the past four years: once for 
junior college in Kansas and the other time when he transferred to UF. 
“She doesn’t want me to leave South 
Carolina, so to tell her that I want to leave 
for a whole ‘nother country, it was, ‘No. 
No, I don’t want you to go,’” Epps said.
He missed opportunities in the past, 
though. Epps suffered a torn ACL during 
the Gators’ 2008 season. 
Later that year, he would have to watch 
on the sidelines as his teammates beat 
Oklahoma for a national championship.
“If I would have played rugby before 
I played football, I would’ve had a com-pletely different mentality for that, for football,” he said. “Things would’ve been so different.”
The sport demands perfect tackling: 
nothing too high, or it’s a foul; nothing too sloppy or by the shoestrings, unless the defender wants to risk injury.
“When I went out there and saw how 
competitive it is, I got more intrigued with it, and I just wanted to play. Like, I just fell in love with rugby,” he said.
After Epps explained all of this to his 
mother, she was finally convinced.
“Go and chase your dreams” was all 
she said.
Something left in the tank
Before he leaves for New Zealand, Epps 
made sure to thank his former teammates at Florida in person for all they’ve done to 
help him: for accepting him into the rugby 
culture and not casting him aside as some hotshot from the football team.
“That’s who I’m playing for, guys like 
Darrell [Meckley] and ‘Pepper’ [Matias Groetaers] and my man Lucas [Baist-
rocchi]. Those are my boys,” Epps said. 
“They are the people who sat with me and showed me how to play this game.”
Epps drove almost seven hours from 
his home in Union to watch UF Rugby take on Georgia on Feb. 5. 
As he paced the sidelines, he asked his 
coaches to let him throw on a uniform and get into the game.
He chatted up former teammates and 
some of the 50 or so spectators. Afterward, his friends asked him if he was coming out with them later to celebrate the team’s 55-
10 demolition of the Bulldogs.
All he could do was smile and nod.
“In rugby, you might not be the best 
player out there, but everyone loves you the same,” Epps said. “Everyone sees you 
just the same.”
No matter how the next six months or 
six years of his rugby career play out, Epps 
knows he is now in the worldwide rugby 
fraternity.
Epps has finally found the solace every 
athlete craves. 
His aspiring career may fade out at any 
moment, just like it did with football. He knows that, as does anyone who’s been 
given a second chance. 
The difference is, now the game never 
has to end.WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
Chelsea Hull / Alligator
Former Florida defensive lineman Troy Epps has put his football past behind him, mov -
ing on to begin a professional rugby career in New Zealand later this month.
Another Try
Epps trades football in The Swamp for rugby scrum
“Troy Epps
Former Gators defensive linemanI never thought in my 
life that I’d go across the 
world to play a sport that 
I’d never knew existed in 
America.”10, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011
WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 11
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds WEDNESDA Y, MARCH 2, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
The Landings. (this line bold)
All-Inclusive 3/3 ONLY $439
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroomAll inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 13
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis
●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTEDNewly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1600
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-15-11-34-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    3-24-11-40-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-
11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 
15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-
yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-15-11-24-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com3-15-11-19-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-4-11-12-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
14, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2011
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Downtown garage/studio apt, off-street
parking, privacy. Behind Hippodrome, on 
bus lines. $420/mo, 1st, last and sec.
Call 352 373-6551, leave message.
3-4-9-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
3-18-11-10-2
3BR/2BA, 1940sq.ft. Quiet neighborhood. 
1.5 miles from U.F. Large fenced yard, wood 
floors, 2 car garage, and sun room. Available 
5/1. $1100/month. 3936 SW 3rd Ave. 352-
359-1270    3-25-11-15-2
Bellaproperties.net/Quiet Graduate 
Community
Luxury Spacious 2/2 and 2/1 with Loft/Must 
See/Starting at $283/Bedroom/Available 
August 2011/Call Today (352) 335-5424   
3-3-11-4-2
Large 1/1 in quiet neighborhood next to Oaks Mall. Walk to shops, bus routes, cafes. Screened porch, lots of storage. Move in by 
4/1 get one month free. 1 yr lease minimum. 
Discount for longer leases. Rent $500/mo. 
call 305-992-2832 or pazos.lu@gmail.com   
3-22-11-10-2
One bedroom available in a 4/4. $480 + 
utilities. pet friendly. great roomates! The Woodlands Call 863-303-3359   3-4-5-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
We offer unlimited wireless prepaid plan 
starting at $40/month.We flash phones to 
metroPCS.We fix phones too. Call us today 
at:(352)356-8615.Visit our
website:http://infinitemobile.net     3-4-3-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!
All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
3-31-10-38-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNo credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-1202 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
2002 BMW Z3 3.0 roadster
green metallic/beige leather; 91,500 miles, 
good condition; $12,000; Loretta 352-665-5285   3-2-5-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...
Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!
Call Gary at 352-682-8838,
email dlimotors@yahoo.com or
stop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-
12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      3-18-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITORNETWORK ASSTSALES CONSULTANTSCEO ASSISTANTFull time positions.Send resume to hr@gleim.comwww.gleim.com         3-14-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive po-sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14
16, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2011
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-4-11-11-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems seeks 
sales consultants for Gainesville & Ocala.  
Must have reliable transportation. BG Check 
and Drug Test Required. Fax resume to 352-
376-9236 or e-mail info@cpss.net.   3-3-11-
10-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
Experienced swim lesson instructor needed 
for local program. Part time hrs either in 
mornings or late afternoons. Please email 
resume with lesson experience and 3 refer-
ences to jwilby@cox.net   3-16-11-10-14
HOMEWORK COACH NEEDED
for a 10th grader & a 5th grader who both 
need help in math & science. Approx 5-6 hrs/
wk.-flexible, $10/hr. Please email credentials 
to: glennhmcinnes@bellsouth.net   3-2-11-
5-14
Great deal!
Brand new home, perfect for college student, 
quiet community. 3 bed, two bath. Wont last. 699/mo Call 904-992-0141    3-18-11-10-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-
11-7-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Project Manager/Account Director wanted for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual 
with good attention to detail to work in an-
tibody purification and test development. 
Knowledge of ELISA methodology and basic 
immunology is desirable. Basic laboratory 
skills and ability to manage multiple projects 
required. B.S. in scientific field preferred; 
laboratory experience may be substituted. 
Email resume to info@elisa-tek.com   3-2-
11-4-14
Busy couple in need of dog sitting for a 
friendly dalmatian as well as light household 
chores. Approx. 15 hrs a wk. Please email 
letter / brief resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com 
with references.    3-3-5-14
SUMMER JOBS:
Recreation Camp Counselors/Supervisors 
for summer recreation program 6/13/11-
8/05/11 for children ages 5-14.  WSI/Lifeguard and Maintenance Aides (5/11-9/11).  Exp desirable.  City of Plantation 
(west of Ft Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave, 
Plantation, FL  33317 or www.plantation.org 
to download application.   3-4-11-5-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN 
or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or 
send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Nanny for 2-year-old girl needed. Must be 
available full time starting in May and part 
time starting in Sept (Mon-Thurs, 12-6). 
Childcare experience and references re-
quired. Email resume to
nannyingville@gmail.com.    3-4-11-4-14
Lifeguard-Certification Required
$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.
State Mental Hlth Treatment Fac
Call Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-
18-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT 15-40 hrs/wk - M-F, 
9am-6pm. $7.25/hr. Excellent Word, typing, internet & Excel skills. Indicate available hours, major, graduating semester.OMA.office@yahoo.com   3-14-11-5-14
2 LOT TECHS for busy motorsports dealer -
ship. Requires cleaning, loading, unloading & operating machines, building maintenance & light mechanical. Valid driver license req. Apply  in person at Polaris of Gainesville 12556 NW US Hwy 441    3-4-4-14The Village, an upscale retirement commu-
nity, is seeking a full-time Nurse Manager. 
The ideal candidate will have the following 
skills / experience:
- Current and valid license in the State of 
Florida as an RN
- Experience with Memory Support
- One to three years experience in a geriatric 
setting
- One to three years management experi -
ence
- Excellent interpersonal skills
-Please see www.thevillageonline.com/jobs 
for more information!      3-28-11-14-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordableGrammar, conversation, vocabularyContact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     3-16-1-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-96963-31-20-15HORSE BOARDING
Watermelon Pond, trails, training, privacy, open stall. $325/mo. 330-329-8834 or chriswriterbuerki@gmail.com   3-15-11-10-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
need performance credit? 5$ student tickets 
for 'Nightingale and the Rose' at the HIPP, 
March 7, 7.30 pm, 352.375.4477   3-4-11-
5-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Sports
WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
UF SOFTBALL NEWS INSIDE PAGE HONORED AS SEC GREAT PARSONS WINS AWARDMatt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida left-hander Alex Panteliodis (right) and right-hander Tommy Toledo gave up five runs in the third inning 
of the Gators’ 5-3 loss to Florida State on Tuesday night at George M. Steinbrenner Field in Tampa.
n UF GAVE UP FIVE RUNS 
IN THE THIRD INNING.
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
TAMPA — The Gators’ 
pitching finally let them down.
After their starters allowed 
a combined three runs through 
the first seven games of the 
season, right-hander Tommy 
Toledo (0-1) and lefty Alex Pan-
teliodis gave up five runs in the 
third inning as No. 11 FSU (8-0) defeated No. 1 Florida (7-1) 5-3 
on Wednesday night.
“It just kind of spiraled out 
of control,” said right-hander 
Anthony DeSclafani, who 
tossed 1.2 scoreless innings in relief. “It was just that one in-
ning, that one inning that killed 
us. We put up zeroes the rest of 
the game.”
Toledo, making his first start 
since last season’s Southeast-ern Conference Tournament, 
was shaky from the beginning 
on a windy night at George M. Steinbrenner Field. 
He got out of the first inning 
unscathed but threw 18 pitch-es, including eight balls. Toledo 
then battled through the second 
inning before FSU pounced on his inconsistent pitching in the 
third.
The righty gave up a single 
and a double to lead off the in-ning before walking the fourth 
batter of the inning, FSU’s Mike 
McGee, to load the bases with 
one out.
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
pulled Toledo after 61 pitches for Panteliodis, who made his 
third appearance of the season.
Panteliodis was just as inef-
fective, giving up back-to-back 
two-RBI hits by right fielder James Ramsey and first base-
man Jayce Boyd to put the 
Seminoles ahead 4-0. They 
would tack on another run be-
fore Panteliodis got out of the inning. 
“It kind of got away from 
us,” DeSclafani said. “We just 
couldn’t really get to that third 
out.” 
While Florida’s pitching 
struggled, FSU starter Scott 
Sitz (2-0) flustered the Gators’ 
lineup with off-speed pitches 
through five innings of work, Florida pitchers struggle early in loss to Seminoles
By MELISSA PENDER
Alligator Writer
With Florida swimming and diving 
coach Gregg Troy preparing to coach 
the 2012 Olympic team, assistant head coaches Martyn Wilby and Anthony Nesty have been named associate head coaches of the UF men’s and women’s 
teams.
Both have been with the Gators 
since 1998 and will expand their roles 
in the administrative and develop-mental facets of coaching.
“We are extremely fortunate to have 
the long-term commitment of Martyn 
and Anthony,” Troy said. “Their com-
mitment to remain in Gainesville for an extended period of time is key to the success of the program.”
Other structural changes were made as well. Assistant coach Steve Jungbluth was named recruiting co-ordinator, and Erva Gilliam will be di-rector of swimming operations.
“The restructuring of our program 
will provide us with an opportunity on deck to really focus in on the first-hand development of premier performances 
by our swimmers,” Troy said. 
Troy said he has 
confidence the ath-letic department will oversee a suc-
cessful program in his absence.
“We are enormously grateful to 
have an administration, that from top to bottom, understands and values championship-winning performances and coaches that are committed to 
those goals,” he said.UF restructures staff
n Former UF women’s basketball All-Ameri-
can and current assistant coach Murriel Page 
is one of the 12 members of the SEC Greats program’s 2011 class. Page played for the Gators from 1994-98.n Florida senior forward Chandler 
Parsons was part of the Southeast -
ern Conference Community Service Team, announced Tuesday, for his work in the local community.n Flip over to Page 9 for an in-
depth look at former UF football player Troy Epps’ move to New Zealand, where he will begin a professional rugby career.nFlorida junior center fielder Michelle Moultrie was named the USA Softball College Player of the Week on Tuesday following a 10-for-17 weekend as UF went 5-0 at the Cathedral City Classic.Donovan’s efforts with seniors worthy of SEC coaching honor
 
After demolishing Alabama in the 
O’Connell Center on Tuesday night, Billy Donovan now owns 
four conference titles and two national championships in his 13 years as Florida’s head coach.
But one thing has always eluded him.
Donovan has never been named the 
Southeastern Conference Coach of the 
Year. 
He had a chance in 2000, when the 
Gators finished with just seven losses. And 
he could have won in 2006, when Florida 
won its first national title. 
But the drought should end this season.For the first time since Joakim Noah, Al 
Horford, Corey Brewer and Taurean Green left four years ago, Donovan has Florida in position for a top three seed in the NCAA Tournament. But it has been a process since 
the ‘04s left Gainesville in 2007.
Donovan has dealt with two disappoint-
ing seasons that ended in the NIT, the early exits of Nick Calathes 
and Marreese Speights and the transfer of Jai 
Lucas.  
But as the 2007 re-
cruiting class, brought 
in on the heels of two 
national titles to usher 
in a new era of UF basketball, celebrated Senior Day — it was 
obvious: These last four seasons have been 
Donovan’s best coaching job yet.
He has taken that class (minus Calathes, 
who was the leader of the group and left 
school early to play in Greece) from two 
NITs to at least a share of this year’s regu-
lar-season SEC championship. 
“It really has been incredibly rewarding 
for me, the process with these guys,” Don-
ovan said. “I can tell you, I didn’t enjoy the 
process two years ago with them.”
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org
Twitter: @Chiang_ReactionSEE BASEBALL, PAGE 18
SEE ANTHONY, PAGE 18Swimming“I couldn’t think of a better end-
ing,” Parsons said. “It was awe-
some. It was one of the best feel-
ings I’ve ever experienced in my life.”
Macklin also had one of his 
strongest games of the year, fin-
ishing with 19 points and six re-
bounds. The senior played 27 min-utes before he and Parsons checked out for the final time with 1:23 re-
maining, waving to the crowd as 
they went to the bench. 
“I didn’t want the clock to run 
out,” Macklin said. “I wanted to 
play as long as we could. I didn’t 
want to leave that floor tonight.”
Although the team’s focus re-
mains on Saturday’s game and the 
SEC and NCAA tournaments, the senior class is happy to have ce-
mented a part of its legacy. 
“We’re really excited that we left 
something behind that everybody 
will always remember,” Tyus said. 
Florida ran away with the win 
behind a dominant 48-21 second half that Donovan said was as good as any UF has played all year. 
The Gators started the game just 
3 of 19 from the field but shot 70.3 percent over the final 29:13. They experienced a similar jump from beyond the arc, hitting eight of their final 11 after missing their first 10. 
Florida even stepped up its de-
fense in the second half, holding the Tide to just 28.1 percent shooting over the final 20 minutes.
One senior who got to end his 
career on an unexpected high note was Allen, who saw his first action since his freshman season when he checked into the game with 25 sec-
onds remaining. 
Wearing a bulky brace on the 
left knee that has sidelined him the 
last three seasons, Allen took a pass 
from Casey Prather with 20 seconds 
left, dribbled up the court and ran out the clock on his playing career. 
“The adrenaline was pumping, 
and I couldn’t stop smiling,” Allen 
said. “Great way to go out. A sto-
rybook ending to a great season so far.”18, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida senior center Vernon Macklin dunks the ball during the Gators’ 78-51 victory against Alabama in 
the O’Connell Center on Tuesday night. Macklin and Chandler Parsons led the team with 19 points.
Senior starters dominate in rout; Allen ends career on high note
HOOPS , from page 1
Nobody represents the prog-
ress Donovan and this class has 
made from the first day they 
stepped on campus better than 
Chandler Parsons. 
“He has my vote (for coach of 
the year),” Parsons said.
Parsons spent his first two 
seasons fighting for a starting job and averaging 8.1 and 9.2 points, respectively. 
But in his fourth year as a 
Gator, Parsons is expected to earn first-team All-SEC honors.
This season has symbolized 
the process Donovan has gone 
through.
The Gators began the year 
ranked No. 11 and faced early 
season struggles, falling out of the polls after losses to Ohio 
State, UCF and Jacksonville. Now, Florida is atop the SEC 
and on the verge of one of its 
best seasons in school history — 
and one of the best coaching jobs 
of Donovan’s coaching career.
With the addition of players 
like Kenny Boynton and Erving Walker along the way, Dono-
van’s vision has finally become 
a reality.
And that vision not only won 
Florida a conference title Tues-
day, but should also bring Don-
ovan an SEC Coach of the Year award.
“I hope he gets it,” senior Ver -
non Macklin said. “I really hope 
he gets it. That’s a great guy. 
“I love his intensity. I love 
him as a coach.”
It would be fitting. After all, 
everything else he has worked 
toward the last four years has come true.ANTHONY , from page 17
allowing just one run on a third-inning single 
by Preston Tucker.
The Gators threatened that inning, as they 
had two runners on base with one out, but a bas-
erunning blunder by Josh Adams on Tucker’s single cost the Gators a runner and halted their 
momentum. Maddox then popped out to left 
field on a diving catch by Seth Miller to end the 
scoring threat.
“That hurt,” O’Sullivan said. “That was a bad 
mistake. You can’t make base-running mistakes down four … you got to be careful running the 
bases when you’re down four.”
Florida countered again in the sixth when 
Kamm Washington and Daniel Pigott hit back-
to-back singles off FSU lefty Sean Gilmartin to plate Tucker and Mike Zunino.
But that’s all the Gators would get on the 
night.
Right-handed reliever Daniel Bennett came in 
for the Seminoles in the seventh and shut down 
the Gators for two innings.
McGee, who started the night in center field 
for FSU, came in to pitch the ninth and struck out 
the side, giving his club its fifth win in its last six 
games against UF since last season.
“They kept spinning balls in for strikes and it 
hurt us,” Tucker said.
ETC: The announced attendance was 7,869. … 
The Gators have lost six straight neutral-site meetings with the Seminoles since O’Sullivan took over as coach. … Florida’s pitchers walked 
five batters and hit two with pitches.Blunder on basepaths costs UF in third
BASEBALL , from page 17By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
Since the first time she set foot on the 
wooden floor of the O’Connell Center, 
freshman Jaterra Bonds has shown she 
is capable of being a big-time player. 
Bonds racked up 15 points, four re-
bounds and two assists against Central Florida during her debut in a Gators 
uniform, but she also had a freshman-
like seven giveaways. 
Bonds always believed in herself, 
and Florida women’s basketball coach 
Amanda Butler said she saw a certain 
edge in the 5-foot-7 point guard when she recruited Bonds from UF’s own backyard. 
“She’s fiery,” Butler said. “She 
wants the biggest defensive challenge. She wants to hit the big shot. That is 
an approach that you cannot put into 
a player.”
Now, after a standout rookie cam-
paign highlighted by stellar play down 
the stretch, others are recognizing that 
talent as well.
For the second time this year, Bonds 
was named Southeastern Conference Freshman of the Week on Monday. 
Then, a day later, the SEC announced 
that she had been selected as a member of the All-Freshman Team, chosen by the conference’s head coaches. 
Bonds made the team alongside 
future SEC stalwarts like Tennessee’s Meighan Simmons (fourth in the SEC with 13.9 points per game) and Ole Miss’ Valencia Mcfarland (13.2 ppg).
Bonds is the Gators’ second-leading 
scorer this season, averaging 8.9 per game, trailing only team captain Jor -
dan Jones’ 10 points per game. 
But it’s been her development at the 
point that is earning awards. 
After posting multiple five-plus 
turnover games, and with an average near four through her first 22 games, 
Bonds turned it around. She hasn’t had 
more than five in the Gators’ last six games and has dropped her average down to 3.0.She went off in Sunday’s game 
against rival No. 22 Georgia, leading Florida with 22 points, three assists and just one turnover. Butler said the edge she saw when recruiting Bonds 
was never more visible than in the win 
over the Bulldogs.
“The thing that I love about coach-
ing Jaterra is … just how she competes,” 
Butler said. “She just really wants to compete and win. … If that seed of who 
they are is not there, it’s really, really hard to draw it out of someone. But she has it, she just really has that.”
The Gators have had a player select-
ed to the All-Freshman team each of the past three seasons. Jennifer George received the honor last year, and Tru-mae Lucas was named to the team after 
the 2008-09 season.WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Saj Guevara / Alligator
UF guard Jaterra Bonds was named to the Southeastern Conference All-Fresh-
man Team on Tuesday, a day after becoming the SEC Freshman of the Week.
Freshman Bonds earns accolades
By THOMAS NASSIFF 
Alligator Writer
 
The UF women’s tennis team walked 
into Scott Speicher Tennis Center in Tal-
lahassee on Tuesday boasting a newly ac-quired No. 1 ranking and a 50-1 all-time 
record against the Seminoles.
But the Gators hadn’t played a match in 
a week, and had an overall bad stretch of practice preceding the road test, according 
to coach Roland Thornqvist.
Despite the time off following a loss 
to Stanford in the final of the ITA Indoor Championships, Florida (11-1) came out 
and extended its dominance over Florida 
State, piecing together a convincing 6-1 
win over the No. 22 Seminoles.
The Gators dominated in all facets of 
play, winning all three doubles matches 
and five of the singles 
matches.
The No. 1 team of Al-
lie Will and Sofie Oyen did not take the court for 
the first time this season, 
however, as Will instead 
teamed up with fresh-man Alex Cercone. 
“We have the oppor -
tunity to change up the teams when we want,” Thornqvist said. “That’s probably 
something that we’ll be experimenting with 
in the next few weeks to gain strengths at different spots.”
The new pair won 8-1 on Court 1 and 
the doubles point was clinched by Lauren Embree and Caroline Hitimana on Court 
2.
“It was extremely important to come 
out fast in doubles, especially with those new combinations,” Thornqvist said. 
“That quieted the crowd right away 
and they never had a chance to get into it even though they had a lot of people out 
there.”
Thornqvist said that giving FSU the 
“brunt of the team” early on was key to rolling through singles play, which was dominated by three Florida freshmen.
Cercone, Oyen, and Olivia Janowicz  
posted straight-sets wins Tuesday.New No. 1 
UF rolls over FSU on road
 
By ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
Consistency has been the cornerstone of 
the Florida men’s golf team’s success this sea-
son. 
Although the trait wasn’t apparent in the 
Gators’ play in this week’s John Hayt Invita-tional, it was the steadiness of Phillip Choi that helped him bring home the individual title Tuesday.
The sophomore’s first collegiate win was 
a memorable moment in an otherwise-for -
gettable three rounds of golf for the Gators in Ponte Vedra Beach. No. 4 Florida finished tied for sixth with a 21-over-par score, 19 strokes behind first-place Arkansas.
Choi’s 7-under-par final score earned 
him a three-stroke victory, besting Auburn’s 
Blayne Barber and Arkansas’ Sebastian Cap-
pelen. Choi’s 2-under 70 in the final round also made him the only player in the 85-player field to shoot under par in all three rounds. 
Those types of rounds have become com-
mon for Choi, who was a playoff away from taking home the individual crown at the Gator Invitational on Feb. 13. 
“I give him a lot of credit,” coach Buddy 
Alexander said. “He’s playing with a lot of confidence and is evolving into quite a play-er.” 
But the rest of the Gators struggled, as the 
team finished outside the top three for the first time this season. 
Bank Vongvanij rebounded from a tough 
round Monday to shoot an even-par 72. Mi-chael Furci also improved from the first two days with an even-par 72. Tyler McCumber’s 
struggles continued, however, as he shot a 
9-over-par 81.
Meanwhile, the Florida 
women’s golf team improved 
its play Tuesday, but it wasn’t enough to help the Gators climb the leaderboard. They finished the tournament in 
12th place. 
The highlight of the day for Florida was 
senior captain Jessica Yadloczky’s return to form. 
After struggling mightily in the fall and 
the first event of the spring, Yadloczky was moved down to the fifth spot in the lineup by coach Jan Dowling. But she served notice 
Tuesday that she might be ready to play like 
she did her freshman and sophomore years, when she was a first-team all-Southeastern Conference performer.
“Things really came together for her to-
day,” Dowling said. “This will be a great con-fidence booster for her.”
Sophomore Mia Piccio joined Yadloczky 
in the red figures, shooting a 2-under-par 70 
on Tuesday to finish the tournament tied for 
11th. 
After disappointing finishes, both UF 
squads will be anxious to return to the course. The women will do so at the Gator Invitation-al in Gainesville on March 6, and the men will move on to the Bandon Dunes invitational in Bandon, Ore., on March 11.Choi captures individual title as Gators finish sixth“She wants to hit the big shot. 
That is an approach that you 
cannot put into a player.”
Amanda Butler
Florida women’s basketball coach
UF women’s team ends tourney in 12th
GolfThornqvist
20, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY MARCH 2, 2011
