We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 57 FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn Bonnie, a 
classroom bunny
 at Baby Gator, is 
on the mend after 
an emergency 
surgery early 
last month. See 
Story, Page 4.NJ bakery blows top, dusts town in flour
ENGLEWOOD, N.J. — People might have thought they 
were part of a recipe when a New Jersey bakery blew its top 
and shot a cloud of flour over cars and buildings.
Acting Englewood Fire Chief Gerald Marion said a pipe 
became loose at the top of the La Esperanza Bakery silo as flour was being pumped into the building on Tuesday.
Some people thought there was an explosion as flour 
filled the air and coated several adjacent buildings.
The pipe has since been resealed.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sunny
77/54FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 14
CROSSWORD 19
SPORTS 20
Maria Linares / Alligator
Launch Of Inspiration
Students from the Queen of Peace Academy launch a rocket they made during the annual Aerospace Day 
at Flavet Field on Thursday. Forty-six students in the seventh and eighth grade attended the event that was hosted by the UF branch of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer 
As UF students are flocking to social net-
working sites like Facebook and Twitter, the 
university is following suit. 
Those efforts have resulted in a No. 9 
ranking in the first list of the Top 100 Social 
Media Colleges, announced StudentAdvi-sor.com early this week. 
The group compiled the rankings based 
on the quantity and effectiveness of UF’s interactions on Twitter, Facebook and other social media networks. 
“It’s absolutely critical to have a strong 
social media presence to reach the people you want to reach the most,” UF spokesman Steve Orlando said. “This is the way stu-dents communicate. This is the way they get their information.”
For students at UF, the amount of news 
and data available on social networking sites is seemingly limitless. 
According to the UF Web Administration 
website, the university has 82 official Face-book pages, 52 Twitter accounts and 12 You-Tube channels. 
“The most surprising findings were in 
the incredibly diverse ways the colleges en-gage in social media,” said Dean Tsouvalas, editor-in-chief of StudentAdvisor.com, on the results of the study.
At UF, the most popular of these is the 
“University of Florida” Facebook page, which has more than 200,000 fans, a number that ranks sixth nationally among colleges. 
But UF is concerned with much more 
than just the sheer number of viewers, Or -
lando said. 
“You have to engage the audience, find 
out their interests and provide some of that info,” said Bruce Floyd, the lead social media and web manager at UF. “It becomes hollow if all you do is just post information … We’re trying to ask questions so that people can discuss it and talk about it.”
Floyd handles the main UF accounts on 
Twitter and Facebook, among others. He was given full control of the Facebook page in fall 2009 and brought it from 20,000 fol-
lowers to the bastion of information it pres-
ently is. 
“Sometimes we’re the first point of con-
tact with a lot of people who are interested in 
the university,” he said. “It’s the virtual opening of the door.”
Orlando and Floyd agreed 
that other UF social media out-
lets provide useful and timely information to current students. Some professors have 
taken to using Twitter for classroom pur -
poses, while the College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences’ Academic Advising Center uses its page to keep tabs on how long the wait is to see an adviser. 
Floyd said he expects UF’s involvement in social media both in and out of the class -
room to only increase going forward, re-gardless of its high national ranking. 
“It doesn’t mean by any stretch that we 
can sit back and say, ‘Oh, we’re done,’” Floyd said. “It’s about active participation, 
so we have to be interactive and involved.”
UF named top-10 school in social media use
STATE
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN 
and PAUL RUNNESTRAND
Alligator Staff Writers
About 70 students packed into a bus and headed to 
Tallahassee on Tuesday to speak with state lawmak-
ers about issues important to the university.
The students, along with adminis-
trators and alumni, met with legisla-
tors and discussed everything from including textbooks in Sales Tax Re-lief Day to preventing cuts in faculty benefits.
“We literally invaded the capital,” 
said UF Student Body President Ash-
ton Charles.
Members of Florida Blue Key, the service and lead-
ership organization that hosts events such as Gator 
Growl and Homecoming, participated as part of Gator Day, an annual event put on for students to meet and network with state officials. 
“It’s just a really incredible event to be able to go 
up there and be able to show the influence and impor -
tance of the University of Florida,” Charles said.Students meet 
with lawmakers in Tallahassee
Charles
SEE GATOR DAY, PAGE 10StudentLifeTop Ten Social Media Colleges
1. Harvard
2. Jo hns Hopkins
3. U.S. Military Academy4. Carnegie Mellon
5. Notre Dame
6. Stanford
7. Colombia8. Miami9. UF
10. Oregon
StudentAdvisor.com
n 
 Florida redshirt 
senior running back 
Chris Rainey (right) 
is optimistic about 
the fresh start 
he will get in the 
Gators’ new 
pro-style offense 
after a troubled 
2010 season.
See Story, Page 20.News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 57 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Upstart
Saturday, 1 p.m.
Reitz Union AuditoriumInstructors from the New York Film Academy will be visiting UF for a free five-hour work-
shop. The event is open to all 
levels of experience. Learn about the film making process 
from these top professionals.
Fick CD Release Show
Saturday, 10 p.m.
1982 BarLocal band Fick will be releas-ing their new EP , Futureshock, 
at 1982. They will be joined by 
Eight Track Automatic, Far Away Planes and Black Box Jungle. $6 cover charge, $8 for 
under 21.
African Student Union 
Showcase
Saturday, 7:30 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomIt is free and open to the public. This event showcases African 
culture from various regions 
of the continent. There will be a fashion show, dancing, sto-rytelling, free African food and 
much more. 
MASS Weekly Motorcycle 
Meet-up
Saturday, 3:30 p.m.
Arthur Ray Massey Westside ParkJoin the group for a motor -
cycle meet-up and a two-hour ride around Alachua County 
every Saturday . Motorcycle 
Association of Students and with an acoustic concert featur -
ing singer-songwriter Allison Weiss. Weiss is a high-energy folk-infused powerpop singer from Brooklyn, NY . Local singer Jeff Jones will open. This event is co-sponsored by Pride 
Student Union. 
Edible Book Contest
April 7
In front of Library West
Prizes will be given in five cat-egories. See details at uflib.ufl.
edu/readathon.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Staff is open to all bikes and 
riders, students or otherwise, 
and it is free to ride. More information available on 
Facebook. 
University Gospel Choir 
Spring Gospel Extravaganza Concert
Sunday, 7:00 p.m.University AuditoriumJoin the University Gospel Choir for the Annual Spring Gospel Extravaganza. There will be special guests such 
as the University of Central 
Florida Gospel Choir, the 13th 
Disciple and many more. 
Graduate Christian Fellowship 
April Large Group Meeting
Monday, 7 p.m.Reitz Union Room 285Sarah Hamersma from the Economics Department will be speaking on “Grad School: Not just a means to an end.” 
Frozen yogurt at Mochi after -
ward.
 
PAM Kick-Off Concert Feat. 
Allison Weiss
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
Orange & BrewCome kick back and kick-off Pride Awareness Month SUNNY
77/54TUESDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
85/60SUNNY
87/63MONDAY SUNDAY
SUNNY
85/59SUNNY
83/55SATURDAY
FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator
Handmade-bike builder Alexis Dold sits with his latest bike frame in the 
works. Dold is the owner of Villin Cycle Works.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Most people look at a bicycle 
and see a mode of transporta-
tion.
But for Alexis Dold, a bike 
frame is a work of art.
“It’s more than real art,” he 
said. “It’s something substan-tial.”
Dold is the man behind Villin 
Cycle Works, Inc., and if you’ve 
got the money, he can make you 
a custom bike. 
His love for bikes goes back 
to his childhood. 
He started racing at 6 years 
old with dreams of one day rid-ing around the world with no 
hands.
Throughout his years, he’s 
had other loves, like surfing and 
DJ-ing. 
He moved to San Francisco 
in the 1990s and was signed to 
a record label for his music mix-ing talents.
But after the label tanked and 
his motives for staying became 
blurred, he followed a girl to 
Gainesville. 
There, his love for biking 
came back to the forefront.In 2000, he bought Bikes and 
More on Northwest 6th Street.  
While there, he began teach-ing himself how to build bike frames and started Villin Cycles on the side. 
He said he named it after 
Gainesville, the city that “taught him how to love.”
It took a few tries before he 
got his skill level right.
“My first one is a joke and I 
was so proud of it,” he said of the red-and-black spray-painted 
monster with the duct tape Vil-
lin Cycle logo.
But he began to hone his 
craft.  
At first, Dold just gave his 
frames away, but then he started charging $15 more with each frame.Now, a basic frame from Dold 
goes for $2,300.
His specialty frames, Dold 
said, come enhanced with tech-niques only he can produce. 
“Basically what I’m trying to 
do is make something simple be as badass as possible,” he said. 
“I’ve made them more than bi-
cycles deliberately.”
He’s expanded his business 
through the years to include 
painting bikes as a means to 
have more control over the final product. 
But Dold doesn’t see him-
self expanding much more than 
that.
“It’s not worth it to me be-
cause the bigger you get, you 
have to sacrifice everything the 
business is in small increments,” 
he said. “You’re doing every-thing for the bottom line eventu-ally as opposed to why you got into it.”
Orders for a Villin Cycle can 
be placed through his website at villincycleworks.com, but there’s a wait of about 25 months before 
you’ll see the final product. 
But the final product, he said, 
is worth the wait.
“It does not end after the 
frame is finished,” he said. “It continues with the rider.”Bike builder turns work into art
n HE HAD A STOLEN RIFLE.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
An employee of Shands at UF was arrest-
ed by the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office for possession of drugs and burglary of his 
neighbor’s house in southwest Gainesville late Wednesday night.
According to the sheriff’s office report, 
Christopher Turner, 18, broke into the home 
on Southeast 43rd Terrace and stole more 
than $300 worth of property, including a laptop.
Officer Jason Hurst found 
Turner in his house next door and reported that he was 
armed with a .22-caliber rifle 
that had been reported stolen, as well as the 
stolen laptop and less than 20 grams of mari-juana.
Hurst arrested Turner at 11:15 p.m. on 
charges of burglary, grand theft, possession of cannabis, possession of paraphernalia and 
dealing in stolen property.
As of 3 p.m. Thursday, he remained in 
police custody with bond set at $5,000.Shands employee charged with burglary, drug possessionA basic frame costs $2,300
“Basically what I’m trying 
to do is make something 
simple be as badass 
as possible. I’ve made 
them more than bicycles                    
deliberately.”
Alexis Dold
biker
NewsLocalBy ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
When Bonnie got sick that day in 
March, Karen Malloy didn’t know 
what to do.
She saw the blood, but as the day 
went on and Bonnie, 2, kept getting 
worse, Malloy decided it was time 
to take her to the emergency room. 
Doctors told Malloy that Bonnie, 
the classroom bunny at Baby Gator, 
had a mysterious lump  and needed 
emergency surgery. Bonnie went 
under anesthesia the same day. 
The doctor examined her and 
concluded Bonnie did not have 
uterine cancer as suspected.  
After spending about a week 
and a half in recovery at the home 
of one of the Baby Gator teachers, Bonnie is back in her cage in the 
block center in the Growing Gators 
classroom,  surrounded by about 30 screaming, laughing pre-schoolers. 
Now, she sits in her cage, right 
below the “No Whining Zone” sign.
“She hopped back quickly,” said 
Malloy, a pre-kindergarten teacher at Baby Gator. 
Malloy said she and Miss 
Braden and Miss Nika, the other two teachers who share Bonnie as a classroom pet, told their classes that Bonnie had to go to the vet to take care of some stomach problems. 
“They know what surgery is,” 
Malloy said. “It’s just another way to teach another part of life. Some-times pets get sick.”
The kids asked about her every 
day she was out of the classroom. They’ve grown used to her hopping around in her cage and hearing her munching on hay, her favorite food. Bonnie even eats lunch and takes 
naps at the same time they do. 
“They get a kick out of [watch-
ing her],” Malloy said. “They think 
it’s the funniest thing.”
Uterine cancer is common in 
rabbits,  said Jim Wellehan, a clini-cal assistant professor in zoological 
medicine service, in an email.
Luckily for Bonnie, the mass 
Wellehan felt during surgery was 
nothing more than a blood hemor -
rhage.  
“While the hemorrhage would 
likely have been fatal if untreated, 
unlike uterine cancer, there is no 
chance of further spread of the dis-
ease,” Wellehan said. 
After she was spayed, Bonnie 
returned to the Baby Gator class-rooms  two weeks ago. 
While she is a little more skit-
tish since her surgery, she is just as friendly and good with the kids as usual, Malloy said. 
Some of the parents even 
chipped in to pay for the procedure. They know the kids love her. 
“I didn’t have a single kid that 
doesn’t want to play with her or didn’t ask about her,” Malloy said. 
“She gets a lot of attention, some-
times probably more than she 
would like.”4, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Bonnie the bunny peeks out of her cage in a classroom at Baby Gator Child Development and Research 
Center at Newell Drive on Tuesday afternoon.
Bonnie the bunny bounces back after surgery
n THE CITY COMMISSION WILL VOTE 
ON THE PROPOSAL IN A MONTH.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
A recommendation to change the city 
soup kitchen meal limit to a three-hour 
time limit was passed unanimously by the 
Gainesville City Plan Board on Thursday.
The recommendation will go to the 
Gainesville City Commission in about a month. At that time, the commission will 
decide whether to change the limit, which is currently set at 130 meals per day.
Seventy-five to 100 people a day have to 
be turned away after that 130th meal, espe-
cially near the end of the month, said Kent Vann, St. Francis House executive director.
The time limit would allow an unlim-
ited number of people to eat at the St. Fran-cis House during the time frame. While the recommendation will change the rule for all Gainesville soup kitchens, the St. Fran-cis House is the only organization that is 
required to follow the limit.
Citizens spoke in favor of changing 
the limit to a time frame. They said the 130-person cut-off is inhumane and ques-
tioned the limit’s effectiveness.
“The meal limit, which was intended as 
a dispersal of services, has failed to disperse services,” said Joe Jackson, a Gainesville resident and UF law professor.
Dan Harmeling, a 
downtown resident, 
was the only person to 
speak in favor of keep-
ing the meal limit.
He said downtown residents were 
promised their neighborhoods would be upheld as safe, business-friendly places to live.  
By increasing homeless services, 
Harmeling said, the city would break that 
promise.
“I believe very strongly that these prom-
ises should be kept today,” he said.
Vann said he is optimistic that the 
Gainesville City Commission will pass the limit change. 
If nothing else, he said he’s happy to see 
how many citizens support the St. Francis 
House.
“I feel like I just had one thousand more 
people on our side,” Vann said.Plan board approves proposal for meal time limit
Gainesville Cit yCommissionVeterinarians thought she had cancerFRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
By CRISTINA PANEQUE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Standing for 26.2 hours may 
seem like a miracle to some UF stu-
dents, but dancers do it annually in the name of Children’s Miracle Net-work. 
While the some students who 
register for Dance Marathon, which takes place this weekend, may sign up once and vow never to return, some choose to come back several times. 
Matt Michel, a second-year law 
student at UF who is in his eighth consecutive Dance Marathon, began 
participating in the event during his 
freshman year.
The first couple of years Michel 
participated, the marathon went for 32 hours instead of 26.2. Michel de-scribed the experience as an endur -
ance test. However, he said going without sleep was worth it to help the children who are constantly in 
and out of hospital beds. 
“As bad as my legs hurt toward 
the end of it, it pales in comparison 
to the children who suffer constant-ly,” Michel said.
He said he is not sure if he will sign up to be a dancer for a ninth 
year, but said he wants to remain 
involved in some way.
Andrew Stepp, another UF stu-
dent who will be recognized for his involvement in the event, will be dancing for his fourth consecutive 
year.
After Stepp partici-
pated during his fresh-
man year he vowed to 
never put himself through the tor -
ture again. 
But that same year, a family came 
to talk about their baby son, Zander, 
who wore a purple helmet to pro-tect his head because he had severe 
brain damage.
When Stepp saw how lively and 
happy Zander was, it made an im-
pression on him. 
Two years later, the same child 
came back to the event to speak. The helmet was gone and Zander was living a normal and happy life. 
“I would have never known 
about the impact we made unless I was actively involved in Dance Mar -
athon,” Stepp said.
Jill Rose, a UF senior who will be 
participating in her fourth consecu-tive Dance Marathon, got involved her freshman year while volunteer -
ing at Shands Hospital.  During the event she didn’t even notice the time passing.
“At one point you get really tired 
and then you get over it, then you’re just delirious,” Rose said.
Rose recalled another young boy 
from Children’s Miracle Network who comes each year and raps for 
the dancers.
“Him rapping just shows you 
that he is still a little kid even though 
he’s been through so much,” Rose said. “He still wants to be a little kid and still wants a normal life.”
Dance Marathon an endurance test for participants
StudentLifeThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
N/A TOTAL VOTESN/A YESN/A NOThursday’s question: Thursday’s poll question is unavailable due to technical difficulties.Today’s question: Will you play an April Fools’ joke on someone?Just when it seems like the Democrats have exhausted 
their playbook — just when it looks as if the left has 
attempted every trick in the liberal agenda — it turns 
out that they have.
The Congressional Budget Office released a report de-
tailing a Democratic proposal to implement a tax on the 
number of miles driven by motorists.
How original — a new tax!In addition to the current taxes on gasoline, which have 
driven the prices well beyond the control of the market-
place, and the ever-increasing number of toll roads oper -
ated by the government, this new tax would require every 
motorist to pay for every mile driven.
The most obvious problem with this is that the current 
state of the economy has already altered the lifestyle of most Americans. Higher gasoline prices have prompted most people to significantly decrease their travel. This has 
had a drastic effect on the travel industry and on the lo-
cal economies of tourist-centric areas. Further costs would 
have an even greater influence on the number of trips 
taken, which likely would place most such economies in dire straits.
Recreational driving aside, this would also affect the 
daily travel expenses of working commuters, stay-at-home moms and students. With many families hit hard 
by unemployment and reduced wages, this would create 
another hole in the budget of even the most fiscally re-sponsible citizens.
Of course, this is not a problem for the proponents of 
the tax. The CBO report calls for the installation of meters in all registered vehicles that would report mileage figures to the government as they are driven.
“Judging from estimates of the costs of highway use, 
a system that charged for all such costs would have most 
if not all motorists paying substantially more than they 
do now — perhaps several times more,” the report said. “Such a system would maximize the efficiency of highway use by 
discouraging trips for which costs 
exceed benefits.”
It is not the job of the United 
States federal government to “dis-courage trips.” The number of miles 
people choose to drive is none of the 
government’s business. This state-ment reveals the true motives of this 
measure.
This is not about raising revenue. It is not about cover -
ing the costs of highway maintenance and repair. It is about 
control. Like most aspects of the modern liberal agenda, it 
is about restricting the freedom that every American has learned to take for granted. The Democrats in Washington want to change the way you live your life, and they are 
coming up with measures like this to insert obstacles into 
even the most mundane facets of the American dream.
This goes way beyond the problem of unintended con-
sequences. All evidence suggests that the very worst thing that can be done to a hurting economy is to raise or intro-
duce new taxes. This proposal, which seeks to do exactly 
that, suggests that there are leaders in Washington who would seek to do intentional harm to this country, its citi-
zens and its economy for the sake of increased control and 
political gain.
There once was a time when the American people were 
fairly certain that the government was on their side. They could wake up every morning without having to worry about what phony statesmen in Washington would do that day to harm their freedom, property or income.
If those days are to return, the enemies of freedom in 
Washington must be stopped cold.
Bob Minchin is a fourth-year electrical engineering major. 
His column appears on Fridays.Democrats’ driving tax is ridiculous
Be on your toes today, Gators. You’ve got to stay sharp, 
lest you fall victim to another lame April Fool’s joke.
While we aren’t looking forward to shenanigans that 
cause more eye rolls than their sitcom inspirations, we’re still 
getting into the mischievous spirit by rounding up the news 
with this week’s please-rethink-fooling-your-mother-into-
thinking-you’re-pregnant edition of…
Darts & Laurels
We wish most of the news stories this week were yarns 
spun for April Fool’s Day. 
Thursday’s weather is a good example. 
We weren’t prepared for the onslaught of Florida’s sum-
mer storms, complete with driving rain, frequent lightning and umbrella-murdering wind. They even had tornadoes to 
the south of us. Whatever happened to, “In like a lion, out 
like a lamb?” 
For psyching us out, we’re chucking an if-we-assign-you-
an-easy-to-remember-saying-we-expect-you-to-live-up-to-it DART at March. Good riddance.
First, it brought us madness, then torrential rain.
At least we can look forward to those new green leaves 
after the downpour, though. 
News emerged this week about a new artificial leaf that 
can change water into energy with 10 times the efficiency of 
an average plant’s rate of photosynthesis. It’s constructed 
with cheap and widely available materials, and it doesn’t de-
grade quickly, unlike previous leaf prototypes. 
That means that sometime in the near future, we could be 
powering homes with things as simple as a small solar cell 
and a bucket of water. 
For their energy breakthrough, we’re giving a let-us-
know-when-the-leaves-go-on-the-market-so-we-can-craft-
a-more-efficient-laurel LAUREL  to Daniel Nocera and his 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology researchers. 
You guys really earn your reputation.
So does our state government — if that reputation is caus-
ing constant groans and repeated forehead smacking. Allow us to elucidate.
State Rep. Scott Randolph used a joke to prove a point — 
the point being that Republicans want to regulate everything 
except for businesses — but the joke contained a word some of his colleagues found offensive. You know the one: Uterus. 
For a state that’s discussing abortion bans every time we turn 
around, it seems ridiculous that a scientific part of the female anatomy couldn’t be mentioned to a governing body. 
For chastising Randolph for his “dirty” mouth, we’re fir -
ing a how-can-the-organ-used-to-produce-miracles-be-con -
strued-as-offensive DART at the Florida House.
Exasperated doesn’t even begin to describe our reaction 
to the situation in our state. But it probably will describe the 
looks on unsuspecting victims of a new show that just got 
the green light.
Betty White is going to host a show dedicated to senior 
citizens pranking younger generations. We know we ragged 
on jokesters at the top of the column, but this show is bound 
to be funny. For reminding us that older people actually have a sense of humor, we’re giving a portions-of-the-target-de-mographic-might-literally-bust-a-gut-laughing-at-this LAU -
REL to NBC for giving the project the go-ahead.
We’re in the home stretch of spring semester. And you 
know what that means – furious paper writing, cramming and finals. We’ve got a month left Gators, make it count.
But we’re not going to have enough time to worry about 
it because we’re in the home stretch of spring semester. And you know what that means — furious paper writing, cramming and finals. We’ve got a month left Gators, make it count.
Bob Minchin
letters@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Butler’s record speaks for itself
What’s the point of these articles? They 
list some of coach Butler’s accomplish-
ments, praise her intensity and passion 
for the game, and then suggest her pos-
sible “downfall” based on comments from two former disgruntled players who aban-doned their team last year as post-season 
play began. 
As for Butler having a “special place” in 
her heart for point guards, Spurrier has his 
quarterbacks and Meyer had his special teams. So what’s the difference?
Despite UF women’s basketball being 
behind other UF sports in accomplish-ments, two of their 20-win seasons have 
come during coach Butler’s four-year ten-
ure, plus four consecutive years of post-season play. That’s improvement.
While these articles appear more like 
tabloid “journalism,” some good may 
come of them. Perhaps this is motivation 
for the players to take this program to the next level. No yelling required. Or was that the point of these articles?
Deb Dalziel
UF staff, retired
n n n
Players’ complaints only sour grapes
I read Matt Watts’ diatribe about our 
esteemed women’s basketball head coach Amanda Butler in Thursday’s paper. 
Firstly, is it unknown for head coaches 
to have a temper (see Coach Summitt, paint stripping from walls)? I submit that this is 
sour grapes on behalf of some disgruntled 
former players. Trumae Lucas now plays for Delaware Blue Hens.
If this was such an important issue, 
why was it not published in 2010 when these so-called “stars” transferred? Butler is doing a fine job and has the fans’ sup-port. Go Gators!
Jane Houston
UF faculty
On Sunday, I watched the CNN documentary “Un-
welcome: The Muslims Next Door” in a state of 
bewilderment, anger, and above all, disgust. 
The hourlong film explored the town of Murfreesboro, 
Tenn., which contains a large population of Islamophobes.
Phobias by nature are irrational; Islamophobia is de-
fined as the irrational fear of Muslims.
Members of this town described Murfreesboro as 
warm, welcoming, and accepting of all others — a great place to raise a family. 
That is, unless you’re an American citizen and prac-
ticing Muslim expecting to be able to exercise your basic First Amendment right guaranteed to all U.S. citizens — in that case, you’re out of luck.
The members of this small town (who all live under 
the same rock, apparently) are under the impression that being a Muslim is the same as being a terrorist. 
It is because of this ignorant and erroneous belief that 
the majority of their citizens oppose the building of a Mus-
lim-based community center on the outskirts of town.What’s wrong with that? 
Essentially, it’s just another mega-
church, just not one that is Christian-
based. 
To the average and seemingly uneducated Murfees-
boroan, the community center is going to be a terrorist 
breeding ground, hell bent on destroying the “great state” 
of Tennessee.
All joking aside, this is the latest symptom in a grow-
ing disease that is infecting the uneducated electorate in 
our country. 
To be clear: The idea that 1.6 billion people — one-fifth 
of our global population — are actively trying to kill all Americans is absolutely absurd. 
The main issue here is ignorance, and it embarrasses 
me to no end that our country has an appetite for such 
nonsense.
Last time I checked, religious fanatics come in all 
shapes and sizes. 
Moreover, they make up an unbelievably small frac-tion of a large group of good-hearted individuals.
Ironically enough, the Christian and/or anti-Islam 
members of the community actively and openly support-ed a terrorism of their own and tore down signs and van-
dalized trucks and other building equipment in order to prevent an otherwise peaceful process from occurring.
I can now understand why Americans are viewed un-
favorably; this country was founded with religious free-dom as a priority and is, again, denying it to those we don’t understand. 
History shows similar situations, such as anti-Catholic 
and anti-Semitic feelings of years past, tend to be some-
thing that we look back on and scoff at our own igno-
rance. 
While I believe that this is the same situation — that we 
are merely being overly dramatic and ignorant of some-
thing that many don’t understand and fear because of it 
— it saddens me that tomorrow will not be the day that we wake up and realize our foolishness.
Timm Krueger, University of Iowa via UWire.Islamophobia: We’re the United States of EmbarrassmentUWire
Timm Krueger
UWire8, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
Aundre Larrow / Alligator 
Planet Plain
Undergraduate dance student Olivia Ruggieri sits up and laughs during practice for a dance piece di -
rected by Josh Sallerson. The piece explores gender roles and stereotypes in our culture and will be 
showcased in the Bachelors in Fine Arts Showcase on April 14 to 17.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
A highly venomous Egyptian cobra that went missing at 
the Bronx Zoo was found Thursday after nearly a week on 
the lam, zoo officials said.
The approximately 24-inch snake was found coiled in a 
dark corner of the zoo’s reptile house, about 200 feet from where it had escaped from a holding cage outside the ex-
hibit into a space described by officials as a “labyrinth” of 
pipes and equipment.
“As you can imagine, we are delighted to report that the 
snake has been found alive and well,” the zoo’s director, 
Jim Breheny, said during a news conference as he stood in 
front of a huge picture of the snake projected on a screen.
The reptile house closed last Friday after the snake dis-
appeared and zoo workers couldn’t find it.
The snake quickly became the stuff of urban legend. 
Someone even started pretending to be the cobra on Twit-
ter and sent fake updates to legions of followers.
Breheny said the snake was “resting comfortably and 
secure” and was being evaluated to make sure it was in 
good condition. He said it had been placed in the same area 
as the other venomous snakes and would likely be put on display for the public.
He said the zoo will likely hold a naming contest for the 
cobra, which it obtained in February.
The snake was captured at about 9 a.m. Thursday. Wood 
shavings that had been used as bedding for rats and mice were put out to lure the snake out of hiding, said Breheny, who explained that “snakes hunt by olfactory means.”
“It was merely the scent of the rodents that we hoped 
would bring her out,” he said.
Breheny said the zoo is evaluating its protocols to make 
sure the snake doesn’t escape again. Zoo officials hope to reopen the reptile house next week.
Meanwhile, BronxZoosCobra on Twitter had stopped 
posting messages sometime Thursday.
“Oh, this isn’t over,” the person wrote in an e-mail to 
The Associated Press. “They have only awakened the Bronx 
Zoo’s Cobra nation.”Escaped Bronx 
Zoo cobra found in reptile house
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
If you haven’t noticed, it’s been wet 
lately. 
Since Monday, Gainesville has seen 
about an inch and a half of rain along 
with tornado warnings and hail, ac-cording to the National Weather Ser -
vice in Jacksonville.
Mike Roosa, a criminology senior at 
UF, said he didn’t have much trouble with the gloomy weather on Thurs-day. 
But when it does rain, he uses his 
blue-and-orange-striped, big umbrella to stay dry.
Though it may seem like a lot of 
rain, Gainesville still fin-ished more than an inch and a half below the nor -
mal rainfall amount for 
the month of March at 2.46 inches, ac-cording to National Weather Service. 
For the year, Gainesville is also be-
low average with 9.73 inches of rainfall compared to the normal rate of 11.04 
inches.
Meagan Kaufman,  trudged around 
the UF campus in her red-trimmed, black rain boots Thursday to avoid the 
puddles. 
“I wish I was wearing flip-flops 
right now instead,” said Kaufman, a health science junior.
While the weather has gotten 
steadily worse throughout the week, 
the National Weather Service predicts 
today and this weekend to be sunny 
and windy. Today’s forecast calls for 
a high of 77 degrees, with weekend 
highs in the mid-80s.Dreary weather coming to an endNATIONAL
“As you can imagine, we are delighted            
to report that the snake has been found        
alive and well.”
Jim Breheny
Bronx Zoo Director
NewsLocalNo rain is expected this weekendFRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
n HONORS WITHOUT BORDERS 
SERVES BOTH LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL NEEDS.
By SARA KANER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A school project on Rwanda inspired 
one UF freshman to realize that she wanted 
to do something to help the world.
In an effort to apply humanitarian en-
deavors to the Gainesville community, Ol-ivia Munizza, a microbiology major, and 
four other first-year students have estab-
lished Honors Without Borders, an organi-zation that aims to utilize students’ skills, 
talents and ambitions to help the world.
“We want to restore hope, alleviate suf-
fering and do as much as we can,” said Mu-
nizza, the club president, “We just want to 
make a difference locally and globally.” 
Club adviser Melissa Johnson started 
Honors Without Borders when she had the five students in her Introduction to Profes-
sional Development class last semester. She noticed that they all had a passion for hu-manitarian work and she wanted them to do something about it.  “I got them all in the same room at the 
same time, and the club just kind of came together from there,” said Johnson, who also serves as the assistant director of the 
UF Honors Program.
Johnson thinks Honors Without Borders 
is fulfilling an involvement gap within the 
Honors Program. She said the organization will give students the opportunity to get 
involved and volunteer locally, while still 
keeping an international focus in mind.
The group is partnering with the Spread 
the Love Foundation, a program started by 
UF faculty member Liz Ka-
zungu designed to donate a 
library of books to a Gandi-ni Primary School in Gotani, 
Kenya. Honors Without Borders will also write letters to the students at the school, sharing with them the importance of edu-cation. 
Honors Without Borders is currently 
recruiting new members and is only avail-able to Honors students. However, Mu-nizza said that the organization hopes to open itself up to all students next semester. 
Students interested in getting involved can 
check out the organization’s website, www.honors.ufl.edu/hwb.Honors students reach out
By KRISTEN WASKO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Earth Day is coming early this 
year, at least at UF.
Although Earth Day is not until 
April 22, UF will be celebrating on 
Friday. The UF Office of Sustainabil-ity has expanded its Earth Day fes-tivities this year in hopes of getting 
students to be more involved.
UF President Bernie Machen will 
be on the Plaza of the Americas at 
11:30 a.m. to give his annual State of Sustainability at UF address. 
Following his address, the Office 
of Sustainability will be presenting 
the Sustainable Solutions Awards, 
which are given to those who have 
made an effort to increase sustain-ability on campus. 
There will be games, trivia and in-
formation about sustainability on the Plaza of the Americas in order to at-tract student attention.
“We try to have a variety of ways 
to get people involved,” said Ashley Pennington, outreach coordinator for the Office of Sustainability. “Getting informed is that first big step because 
you can figure out what your passion 
is.”
Pennington said she hopes this 
year’s Earth Day events will attract more students than ever before. 
“This is one way they can get in-
volved, and hopefully it will be an 
opportunity to reflect on what the 
future holds for the upcoming year,” she said.  “We can all be a part of that movement.”UF observes Earth Day
“We try to have a variety of 
ways to get people involved.”
Ashley Pennington
Outreach CoordinatorUFProjectsBy MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
Saturday is Evan Kassof’s 
judgment day. 
For more than a year, Kassof 
has been writing his own opera. 
On Saturday, the first act of his work will be unveiled as part of his senior composition recital. 
The opera, “Judgment,” will 
be presented during his recital, which begins at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. 
Kassof, who is majoring in 
both physics and music at UF, will first perform an unrelated composition called “Water Mu-sic” at the concert. Then the op-
era’s first act will begin. 
Admission to the concert is 
free.
The opera’s performance will 
be entirely student-run. Gradu-
ate conducting assistant Lauren Kingry will direct the musicians, some of whom are members of the UF Chamber Music Society, a 
group for which Kassof serves as 
president.  
The first act of the opera lays 
out Kassof’s story about John, an 
atheist who dies and must face 
the angels at heaven’s gates as his fate is decided. 
John, Kassof said, is a good 
man who leaves behind a loving 
family in the wake of his death.  
The opera explores the question of whether one’s belief in God, or lack thereof, is an acceptable rea-
son to judge a person. Kassof was inspired to write 
the opera partly due to his own 
experiences as an atheist. 
He said he knows many peo-
ple who believe others will go to 
hell simply for their beliefs, rath-
er than for the way they choose to live. 
The opera explores what it 
means to banish someone to hell 
for his or her spiritual beliefs, 
whether that person is an athe-ist like the story’s main character or a follower of another religion, Kassof said. 
“Is it right for us as people to 
say people are going to hell just because they’re atheist or some-thing? … [It’s like,] ‘We’re best friends, and when we grow old 
and die, I’m going to go to Dis-
ney World and you’re going to go to Auschwitz,’” he said. “People try to reconcile their faiths on trivial issues, and no one tries to 
reconcile their faiths on this re-ally horrible issue. Can I believe 
my best friend is going to suffer because they believe something 
different from me?”
“Judgment” explores these 
questions over the course of two 
acts.
Kassof selected the opera as 
his proposal for the University Scholars Program, which allows students to work on projects with UF faculty members if accepted. 
He was chosen as a program participant for the 2010-2011 and 2011-2012 school years. He worked on the opera with Paul 
Richards, a UF professor in the 
School of Music who has written an opera before and who served as Kassof’s project mentor.
Kassof spent all of 2010 writ-
ing the first act. It is 120 pages long, and the second scene of the act alone includes 20,000 musical notes.
While Kassof is responsible 
for the music, UF English major Erica Kenick is responsible for the words.
Kenick wrote the libretto, or 
lyrics, for the first act and is cur -
rently writing the second act with Kassof as well. 
Kassof and Kenick both play 
the cello and have been friends for a while. Kassof asked Ken-ick to write the lyrics because she had experience with creative 
writing as an English major. 
“I’ve taken creative writing 
classes here — mostly poetry — 
and it’s kind of a mix between poetry and a movie script,” Ken-
ick said of writing the libretto.
Kassof explained the plot of 
“Judgment” to Kenick. After she 
wrote the words, he set them to 
music. 
“You have this one idea in 
your head of how you want it to 
be and how you want it to be pre-sented,”  Kenick said of the up-
coming performance.  “I’m curi-
ous to see what people think and if they were entertained by it.”10, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
Special to the Alligator
Evan Kassof, center, plays the cello with other musicians. Kassof has been writing an opera, “Judgment,” for 
more than a year. “Judgment” will be unveiled during his senior recital Saturday at University Auditorium.
ON CAMPUSStudent composer to debut his opera this weekend
Students met with Haridopolos, Bondi and Putnam, among others
Students met with leaders such as Senate President 
Mike Haridopolos, Attorney General Pam Bondi and 
Commissioner of Agriculture Adam Putnam. 
Charles said she appreciated the opportunity to meet 
with state leaders and talk about issues that are important to students, such as preserving Bright Futures funds and protecting faculty benefits to keep professors competitive 
with those at other universities.
“It just epitomizes that having a presence there, a 
physical presence there, is really crucial to demonstrate the needs of the University of Florida,” she said.
Craig Thompson, president of Florida Blue Key, said 
the organization worked closely with Gators for Higher 
Education, the UF Alumni Association and UF President Bernie Machen’s office to schedule speakers and set up a 
luncheon. 
Thompson said the day gave lawmakers a glimpse of 
the quality of students graduating from UF.
“The day provided an opportunity for the university 
and its students to show the leadership of Florida the type 
of students the university is developing and will continue to develop for years to come,” he said.GATOR DAY , from page 1
Special to the Alligator
Mike Haridopolos, Florida Senate President and UF lecturer, speaks to UF students in Tallahassee on Tuesday. The stu -
dents were participating in Gator Day, a Florida Blue Key event where the students spoke with several state lawmakers.“It just epitomizes that having a                   
presence there, a physical presence there, 
is really crucial to demonstrate the needs           
of the University of Florida.”
Ashton Charles
UF student body presidentFRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 11
INTERNATIONAL
  THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 
 The biggest danger to Moammar Gadhaﬁ   
is not the rebel forces struggling to march on 
his capital. It’s more likely to be the crum-
bling of the remaining, fragile support for his regime.
  That is what makes the defection of For-
eign Minister Moussa Koussa a heavy blow. 
He was part of a small circle of key insiders 
and family who have the most to lose if Gad-haﬁ   loses power. As those ﬁ  gures peel away, 
it makes the majority of his supporters, who 
have much looser ties, less certain that Gad-haﬁ   is capable of staying in power.
  The Libyan leader relies most on his im-
mediate family and his tribe, the Gadhadhfa. 
But his tribe is a relatively small one among 
the estimated 140 tribes that predominate life in the North African nation of about 6 million. So he vitally needs the support of others, whose allegiance he has bought over 
the years by handing their members top po-
litical and security posts.
  Their loyalty is already fraying. Inter-
national airstrikes hitting Gadhaﬁ  ’s forces — where these tribes make up much of the manpower — are designed in part to con-vince them that Gadhaﬁ   has to go.
  Gadhaﬁ  ’s most important alliances have 
been with the Warfalla and Magarha tribes, 
thought to be among the biggest in the 
country, with estimates of around 1 million 
members each. One of his right-hand men, 
military intelligence chief Abdullah Senous-si, is a Magarha (he’s also Gadhaﬁ  ’s brother-
in-law). Members of both tribes have ﬁ  lled 
the upper ranks of the security forces and government.
  Warfalla and Magarha also largely ﬁ  ll out 
the militias led by Gadhaﬁ  ’s sons, Khamis, 
Muatassim and al-Saadi. The regime has re-
lied on those forces to battle the rebels and besiege opposition-held cities because the 
Libyan leader feels assured of their loyalty. 
That means they have been main targets of 
the air campaign and are bearing the brunt 
of the punishment.
  Some leaders in both tribes have an-
nounced their support for the anti-Gadhaﬁ   uprising since it erupted on Feb. 15, and nu-merous individual Warfalla and Magarha have joined the revolt, either as ﬁ  ghters or 
politicians. Mahmoud Jibril, the head of the 
opposition’s eastern-based leadership coun-cil, is a Warfalla.  The rest in these tribes and others have 
remained with Gadhaﬁ   for the moment, whether out of fear of reprisals or because 
they hope to hold onto the perks and sala-
ries the positions and military jobs provide 
them.
  Recently, Warfalla ﬁ  gures within the re-
gime — like infrastructure minister Maa-touq Maatouq — have been sent to berate 
their fellow tribesmen to stay in line, said Faraj Najem, a Libyan historian and expert 
on tribes.
  “They have made it 
clear to their tribe that any-one who speaks against the regime will be in trouble — 
that is, physically liquidat-
ed. So they have managed to suppress much Warfalla 
dissent,” said Najem, who 
is based in London and is in touch with ﬁ  g-ures on the ground in Libya.
  The allied tribes “can switch at any mo-
ment depending on the circumstances,” Najem said. “There will be a moment when 
they will let Gadhaﬁ   down, either by turn-
ing against him or just stepping aside” and remaining neutral.  Since U.S. and European-led airstrikes on 
Libya began on March 19, Western ofﬁ  cials have stepped up calls for Gadhaﬁ   loyalists 
to turn against him. “We call on all his sup-
porters to drop him before it is too late,” 
French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Brit-
ish Prime Minister David Cameron said in a joint statement Monday.
  “Those who abandon Gadhaﬁ   in his 
crazy and murderous ways can join in the reconstruction of a new, democratic Libya,” 
Sarkozy said.
  The extent of sincere popular support 
for Gadhaﬁ   is hard to measure, given the 
overwhelming propaganda campaign his government has waged to show he remains 
beloved by the masses. Libyan state TV fre-
quently shows “tribal gatherings” boasting 
of various tribes’ backing for the man who 
has ruled for nearly 42 years.
  Tripoli’s Green Square is ﬁ  lled daily with 
partying loyalists honking their horns, wav-ing green ﬂ  ags and toting posters of their leader. Music blares from loudspeakers and green ﬂ  ags ﬂ  utter from the lampposts.
  “Gadhaﬁ   brought us the wealth and free-
dom and happiness we are in,” one man in the square shouted on a recent day.        Gadhaﬁ  ’s rule relying on wavering tribal support
Gadhaﬁ  
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Dani Moore uses a rat perched on her 
shoulder as a service animal to alert her to 
spasms from a disabling condition. Daniel Greene’s service animal is a snake wrapped around his neck to help him predict epileptic seizures.
But these creatures and many others are 
no longer acceptable as service animals un-der new federal guidelines issued March 15 by the U.S. Department of Justice for the Americans with Disabilities Act. The new 
recommendations limit service animals to 
dogs and housebroken miniature horses.
The new guidelines are not binding to 
states, municipalities and other agencies, which are free to adopt the policy or to make 
their own. But individuals who rely on other 
types of animals to help them manage physi-cal disabilities and conditions are worried.
The law used to say a service animal 
could be any animal trained to do a task for 
an individual, said Don Brandon, director of 
the Northwest Americans with Disabilities Act Center in Seattle. The new policy allow-
ing only dogs and the miniature horses “ex-
cludes automatically yard animals, rodents, spiders, snakes, monkeys and cats,” Brandon said.
Service animals also exclude animals that 
provide emotional support or comfort, he said.
The DOJ decided to revise its service ani-
mal regulation because of comments from businesses, state and local governments and 
individuals with disabilities, including sev-
eral who use service animals, department spokesman Xochitl Hinojosa said.
People were putting vests on pocket pets 
and calling them service animals, Brandon 
said. 
When Moore, 55, heard about the new 
law, she went to the City Council in Hesperia, 
Calif., where she lives, and asked lawmakers 
to enact an ordinance that would allow her 
to continue using rats to alert her to spasms she can’t feel because of spinal nerve injuries, fibromyalgia and osteoporosis of the spine. 
When her rat feels Moore shaking, he starts 
licking her neck, she explained, so she can take medication and stop the spasms before they start.
She uses pudding to train her rats, she 
said.
Despite opposition from one councilman 
who cited health concerns and the risk of 
litigation, the council adopted an ordinance 
keeping the old definition and allowing Moore to continue using her rats as service animals. It goes into effect in this high desert community 90 miles northeast of Los Ange-les on April 14.
Greene, 47, went to Olympia, Wash., to tes-
tify against a proposed revision of that state’s law so it would match the ADA change.He wears his 10-pound red tail boa, Red 
Rock, draped around his neck. Red Rock will 
alert Greene, who stands 6-foot-6, to an epi-
leptic seizure so he can sit down and reduce the chance of injury. Once down, he said he 
uses meditation to try to control his body and 
eliminate the seizure.
He doesn’t know how or why his snake 
knows what to do, he said. “He’s not a mir -
acle cure, he’s an early warning system,” he 
said. Greene spent about a year getting the 
snake used to people, he said.
The Legislature hasn’t ruled yet and he 
hopes the measure to adopt the new policy dies without a vote.
Federal agencies are not in sync on ani-
mals. The U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Department of Housing and Ur -
ban Development allow service animals of all types as well as emotional support animals, 
Brandon said, although some airlines may 
require advance notice, a doctor’s note and 
some other documentation.
TriMet, Oregon’s largest transit agency, 
quickly voted to adopt the new ADA defini-tion. But the state Department of Transpor -
tation asked the agency to withhold imple-mentation to allow time for public outreach, 
TriMet communications director Mary Fetsch said.
“We are maintaining our current service 
animal definition, which is any guide dog, sig-
nal dog or other animal individually trained 
to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of a person with a disability,” she said.
“The disability community is one in five 
people and the vast majority have hidden 
disabilities. You don’t know that they have 
a chronic illness or a heart problem or a lung problem or an orthopedic problem or epilep-sy or a psychiatric disability. There is a huge amount of ignorance about the ways people 
cope so they can be functioning members of 
society,” said Susan Mizner, director of the San Francisco Mayor’s Office on Disability.
The Department of Justice posted its pro-
posed rules in 2008 and the adopted version 
was not much different, so people have had 
time to react, said Marilyn Golden, a policy analyst for the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund.
“A number of people with disabilities are 
concerned about it. Our organization did support a more expansive approach, which is not what the Department of Justice chose to take,” she added.
Moore has been using rats for 10 years. 
She keeps a pair, alternating them every 90 minutes. While one is working, the other is 
kept in a cloth and mesh cage. While work-
ing, they wear a soft leather harness and leash, which she clips to her clothing. The leash bears a tag that advises they are work-ing, so please don’t touch.
Moore says service dogs are not an option 
because they’re too heavy and restless to sit on her shoulder. She says the rats are non-threatening, are bathed twice a week and 
never touch the ground. “Some people don’t 
even notice them,” Moore said. But she un-derstands that some people have rat phobias, 
and she is happy to explain their purpose to 
anyone who will listen. A 20-minute mall trip 
often turns into a three-hour excursion, she 
said.
Mizner, who has been working with the 
disabled for 19 years, said some nontradi-
tional animals do what no others can.
A person might be allergic to fur or feath-ers, so a nonpoisonous snake would be a reasonable alternative, she said. “Chimps 
are being trained to do fairly significant mo-
tor skills. Birds are intelligent, stay on your shoulder and if you drop something, they 
can fly down, pick it up and hand it back.”
A trained rat probably would have had 
a good case in California, Mizner said, be-cause the state Department of Fair Employ-
ment and Housing abides by the Unruh Act, 
which protects controlled service and sup-
port animals helping a disabled person in places where the public is allowed.12, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
AP Photo
Dani Moore keeps a “Service Animal Tag” attached to her service rat, Hiyo Silver. Moore 
uses rats to alert her to spasms she can’t feel because of spinal nerve injuries.
New law limits what qualifies as a service animal  FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
THE LANDINGS.
2/2.5 Townhomes
Starting @ $940
Includes Internet & Cable
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
ALL-INCLUSIVE LIVING*
3/3: From $444/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
REDUCED RENT FOR QUALIFIED 
INDIVIDUAL WILLING TO SHOW APTS. IN QUADPLEX. NEWLY REHABBED & FURNISHED 2 BDRM w/W/D. ENTAILS MINOR DUTIES. NORMALLY RENTS $735/MO. CALL 727-423-9463    4-8-11-13-1
Rm in scholars' haven 1 mi north of UF, 
woods, housewares, W/D, piano, internet, cable, phone, pkg. Elegant. $400+util. 352-262-3957 casamarta64@yahoo.com.   4-1-11-3-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.
Avail. 8/15$900/mo. call 877-833-2865     4-13-11-10-1
4BR/4BA Countryside @ Univ Apt furn. Asking $380/mo. All brms avail. beg. 8/1. Rent inc. cable and wireless internet+util package for elec/water. Contact Chris at 941-726-2204 or raginriv@ufl.edu w/ any ques   4-14-11-11-1Furnished 4bedroom4bath condo,W/D/
Dishwasher for 2011-2012 starting Aug16 
1/2mi from UF on bus route, 3800 SW 20th 
Ave between UF and Butler Plaza $300/mo 
++ per student 352-586-6468    4-13-11-10-
1
First month FREE. Countryside 4/4 condo w/
pool. Each bedroom has full bath and walk-
in closet. $400/mo. includes ALL utilities, 
upgrade cable, DSL, W/D & 50in. plasma 
TV. One room available: 3 UF women have 
annual leases for one year already beginning 
August 1. $200 damage deposit secures 
lease. 352.281.4588    4-12-11-8-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING!!
SPACIOUS 1050 Sqft 2BDR
ONLY $299/BED
www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Now Including Internet !
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
4-20-11-70-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
4-20-10-70-2Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    4-7-11-50-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
4-20-11-55-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   5-10-11-34-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     4-5-11-16-2
1700 sq ft 3BR/2BA House
Wood floors, large screened-in back porch, 
jacuzzi, W/D, corner lot $1400/mo Call  (352) 258-9116 to see. Available Aug 1st.4-5-11-15-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, close to campus, all appliances, W/D,hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1325 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39374-5-15-2
16, ALLIGATOR  n FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
4-20-10-26-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
4-13-11-20-2
3bedroom $509/person
Amazing townhome with everything included! 
Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/
dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-
2801   4-20-25-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2
Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-24-25
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, 
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dish-washer, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   5-12-11-26-2
★Walk to UF★
2,3,4,5 bedrooms Avail Aug
walk2uf.com
4-20-24-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com   4-1-11-10-2
Two blocks from UF Stadium 
3 Bed 1 Bath, 1 Bed 1 Bath, and Studio. Available Summer and/or Fall352-377-2930        4-1-11-10-2
2BR HOUSE 3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $850352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1335352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-
ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail 
Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2350 352-665-8166 lv mssg   
5-12-11-25-2
Large 4BR/2BA HOUSES 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, w/
dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plen -
ty of parking! . Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1980 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
SPRING SPECIAL!
Quiet 1bd 1ba 827sq ft loft.
SW G'ville on RTS 10 min on freeway from 
SFC
Just renovatd. swim pool, exercise room.
$425mo call 472-6491 or 474-0841    4-1-
11-10-2
3BR/3BA House, fenced yard, close to UF, 
open floor plan/cathedral ceilings, new tile, 
carpet, fixtures. W/D, lawn, and pest control 
incl. Small pets allowed, avail Aug, $1350/
month. 352-246-5958, tonyc@kinetixpt.com    
4-8-11-15-2
SAVE SOME GREEN! Fall specials
3 BR 1 mile to UF. $895 for WHOLE apt!
W/D, H2O, sewer, gas incld.
Sign by April 1st to get this AWESOME deal
2700 SW Archer Rd 373-2700    4-1-9-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1225 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   4-20-11-21-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    4-20-11-21-2
www.Bellaproperties.net
3/2 with study. Walk to UF, hardwood floors, 
fireplace, 2 car garage, full sevice tour
335-5424
4-20-20-2
WALK TO UF! ONE MONTH FREE!
3 blocks from Campus. New 2/2 Condo-each room has private bath + gourmet kitchen & laundry & parking. $650 per rm. mollydh@aol.com 614-288-6730    4-1-11-7-2
www.BellaProperties.net
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
4-20-20-2.
WALK TO UF
3 Bed 2 Bath House in upscale Golfview Estates near Law School & Athletic fields.$1400 mo. Aug 1. Call (305) 788-4103    4-20-11-19-2
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    4-20-11-20-2
Duckpond area HOUSE Aug.1
Large 3/1, W&D, Cent. H/AC
wood fls, nice yard, quiet
$1100 Bike to UF
352-316-0154 www.10houses.com
4-1-11-6-2
MIKE'S HOUSES - 352-665-7316
Exc cond - Close to UF. Pets OK - fenced yards.●3/2 $1250 621 NW 35th St.●4/3 $1250 611 NW 36th Terr●3/2 $1150 630 NW 34th Terr.  4-7-11-10-2Newly renovated 2BD/2BA, two-story 1340 
sq. ft. townhouse available at $925. Includes: 
New wood floors, new carpet upstairs, new 
washer/dryer, new kitchen appliances, fire-
place, pool. Millhopper area, next to Fresh 
Market, Leonardo's, and other great eateries! 
Contact Jon at 352-275-6644.     4-4-11-5-2
Fantastic 3/2 House - Only 9 blocks to UF!! 
Large bedrooms, great neighborhood, wood 
floors, fenced back yard, off the street park-
ing, Freshly painted bright interior. Aval. now, 
1200.00 + Sec. Deposit. 909 NW 9th Ave. 
Call Chad 407-230-2423   4-12-11-10-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE
2BR/2BA pristine Bivens Arm condo. Large 
den/3rd BR, hardwood floors, W/D, pool, 
canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/UF, bus stop. 
$1190/mo. Call 407-832-1458    4-20-11-
16-2
Near UF. Beautiful 4BR/2BA home. Florida 
room w/ inground jacuzzi. W/D. All tile floor. 
2-car attached garage, storage shed. Walk 
to grocery & shops. Avail Aug 10. $1499/mo  
904-534-6982, kencarmgravs@comcast.net    
4-6-11-5-2
1BR/1BA, large screened-in porch, W/D 
hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $535. Sec 
Dep $535. 3300 SW 23rd St. Apt #3 Please 
call 352-371-3473    4-20-11-14-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF & Downtown! 
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  1 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street. 
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA  1BLK TO UFCentral H & Air, LaundryOn site. $500/Mo 
1236 Sw 4th Avenue 
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/MoCentral H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry 
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue 
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos4-15-11-11-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
The last issue for the spring 
semester will be on April 20th!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-30-3
Affordable & Spacious 1/1 avail. May 1
700 sq. ft. with upgraded tile floorBel Air @ Hidden LakeInterested call 219-951-2047Or email mcowen20@gmail.com    4-1-5-3
$325 Gainesville Place Apartments, 1/1 in a 4/4- large bedroom with personal bathroom. Lease runs from May 1st to August 3rd. Fully furnished, washer and dryer, utilities includ -
ed $325 a month! Call Allison 904-327-0519   4-5-11-5-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-726-2915    4-5-11-15-4
HANDYMAN SPECIAL Share 2BR/2BA MH 
in Hidden Oaks. Furn rm incl elec, ph, cable, 
internet. Close to UF, bus, shopping. $200 
NR dep. $400/mo. NS, NA, ND. Handyman 
can work off most. Caged pets ok. 331-0762    
4-5-15-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-682-9412    4-8-14-4
MOVE IN AUGUST-Need 1 female stu-dent to share clean 2/2 furnished condo in Rockwood Villas. Easy commute UF/SFC on bus rte. No pets/smoking. $450/mo. includes all utilites, W/D. Yrly lease. Text 727-494-4503, surfinbean@gmail.com    4-4-11-7-4Male, grad student/instructor preferred for 
small furnished apt on side of private home 
close to UF. Cable, internet, patio, safe. No 
pets. One person only. Avail Aug. $475/mo 
incl utils. 352-336-5808    4-1-11-6-4
Female to rent room in 3/2 beautifully updat-
ed condo in quiet, attractive development, 
private bath, w/d, walk-in closet, swimming 
pool, weight room, on bus route $425 + 1/3 
util Avail Aug (727)455-4204    4-5-11-5-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   4-20-15-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
OPEN SUN., 1-3 PM. Exquisite 3BR/3BA, 2277 sq. ft. Craftsman home at 2351 NW 31st Place for sale in Townsend. Crown molding, coffered ceilings, leaded glass doors, gour-met kitchen (granite counters & stainless appliances), custom cabinets, spa baths & more. $299K. MLS 31880. Call Jackie Erney at Prudential, (352) 328-1266.   4-1-1-5
FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 17
ALABAMA WATERFRONT GRAND 
OPENING-4/2 only- 2 for 1 SALE! 
Buy $39,900 Waterfront lot, get RV lot 
ABSOLUTELY FREE! Direct Gulf access; 
Limited supply.(888)392-9944    4-1-1-5
Absolute Auction - Industrial Zoned, 4951 
Woodlane Circle Tallahassee, FL 32303. 1 
acre w/office and shop. 3 parcels sell as 1 
unit for one price. Live event on April 28th 
at 11:00 am EDT. Info and Online Bidding 
Now: www.abalauction.com (850)510-2501 
AB2387 AU 3239    4-1-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
CASH FOR ELECTRONICS
WORKING OR NOT!
Xbox, iTouch, Computer Repairs
www.techmodo.co
Techmodo (352)872 5881
6450 SW Archer Rd By the Beef `O` Brady`s  
4-6-7-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
Only for Students ofUF!
Win an Apple iPad 2 right now!
Go to www.giftnitro.com
Win a free Apple iPad2!
4-13-11-5-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. 
MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock ready to ship. Starting at $995.00 www.NorwoodSawmills.com/300N  (800)578-
1363 Ext.300N    4-1-1-10
DO YOU EARN $800.00 IN A DAY? Your Own Local Candy Route 25 Machines and Candy All for $9995.00 All Major Credit Cards Accepted (877)915-8222  AINB02653    4-1-1-10★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
4-20-11-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $450000 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
18, ALLIGATOR  n FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
4-8-11-70-13 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys 
Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
4-20-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Love writing? Looking for writers for origi-
nal articles & product descriptions for 
multiple IT websites. Earn up to $150-$300/
wk from your location. Must have excellent 
grammar & writing skills. 626-602-5254
4-12-11-20-14
Remedy Staffing now offers Free Video 
Resumes. Add to you Facebook profile, Linkedin and many other social sites.Call 672.6080 x-3 or emailstephenw@remedystaff.com to schedule.4-12-11-20-4
City of Gainesville Parks/RecDept. is now hiring for seasonalrecreation and aquatics positionsCompetitive pay in great workenvironment! Apply online todayat www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-
14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-
11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village 
is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a 
Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full 
time Life Coach positions available in both 
Independent and Assisted Living. Come 
and be a part of our growing team! These 
positions play a support role in planning, or-
ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-
ment program that promotes total health and 
wellness of each resident living here at The 
Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-
ence conducting group programs with strong interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-
sion for working with older adults is a must. In 
addition to experience with social programs, individuals with a theology background and/or 
fitness experience are encouraged to apply. 
please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     
5-17-11-27-14
PROPERTY MANAGER
PT - Friendly, energetic person.
Requires good communication skills,
sales &/or mgmt. exp. & computer
knowledge. Great benefits. Must be
avail. wknds. Apply in person CMC
2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B DFWP
4-20-11-24-14
Child Care Director - Part time
1+ year experience with school age children
Strong leadership & communication skills
Sundays 9am-noon. $13-$15/hr, DOE
Must be CPR & first aid certified
Apply in person: M-F 8am-4pm
United Church of Gainesville
1624 NW 5th Avenue
www.ucgainesville.org
4-1-11-11-14
SPANISH TRANSLATOR
Gleim Publications is looking for candidates that can translate accounting material from English to Spanish. Must be native Spanish speaker who spent formative years and high school in their native country. Four year ac-counting degree.
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.   4-5-11-10-14TECH SUPPORT
LINUX ADMIN
SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.  4-5-11-
10-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
Vet Tech - Experienced Only - Full Time
Exp. w/restraint, medical protocol, client ed-
ucation. Flexible hrs. incl. weekends, good 
comm. skills, computer exp. Email resume 
to timberviewpetclinic@yahoo.com    4-1-
11-5-14
Zen Cart administrator / Designer
P/T-F/T. Pay commensurate with experi -
ence. HTML and programming skills a plus. Email resume to: tony@mcknight.ws    4-1-
11-5-14
Camp Counselors
Part time and full time positions open im-
mediately & over the summer. Must be 18 
or older and good with children. Apply with 
resume online at www.GirlsPlace.net    4-8-
11-10-14
$15 for a 90-minute study. To participate, you 
should have grown up in a Spanish-speaking 
country & become fluent in English when you 
came to the US for school. Contact Sabra 
Pelham at spelham@ufl.edu to sign up! 
4-11-10-14CAREGIVER TO LIVE-IN with elderly lady. 
Room, board, salary. Gainesville. Must have 
driver's license, good driving record and be 
able to pass background & drug test. Call 
Connie 352-792-2743    4-5-11-5-14
SCOOTER/MOTORCYCLE MECHANIC
PT/FT jobs available. Experience
W/ 2 & 4-stroke motors a must!
Inquire within or call 336-1271
Collin@NS4L.com    4-20-16-14
Computer Programming Internship
Work with local small business to
Expand online presence, update &
build websites, and network. Web
Design experience required.
Collin@NS4L.com for more info.    4-20-16-
14
Sitter/Tutor starting May 2nd, 3:15p to 6:30p 
MTWF with some late nite and Sunday hrs 
for 2 kids, ages 9 & 13. Prefer female with 
strong math and organization skills. Includes 
transporting kids. Call 332-6465.   4-1-11-3-
14
Mobile Waiters Needed - Immediate 
Interviews. Weekend shifts available. 
Make your own schedule, flexible hours, 
avg. $10-$14/hr. Must have own car, cell 
with texting, must be 21+. Email resume to 
blatendresse@d-d-i.com, call 888-334-9675 
ext. 0, or go to www.d-d-i.com   4-1-11-3-14
Receptionist/file clerk/runner for busy law firm. Must be organized, motivated, profes-
sional w/positive attitude, reliable transpor-
tation, p/t. Resume, cover letter w/available 
days/times: hrmb1204@yahoo.com    4-4-
11-3-14
FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 19
SMOKERS needed for study assessing 
the effects of various activities on cravings/
withdrawal/smoking. COMPENSATION pro-
vided. Call 336-406-3706 or email
uflsmokelab@gmail.com    4-6-4-14
TEMPORARY Farm workers-10 positions 
05/09/11-10/10/11in Buncombe County, NC 
40/hr/wk. 9A-5P Plant, stake, tie, pick, box, 
wash, sort vegetables: peppers, tomatoes, 
squash, cucs. Extensive walking, stooping, 
bending. Reqd. lift: 30lbs Transport provided 
from housing-job site. Housing provided to 
any worker who cannot reasonably return 
home each day. If applicable, transport, sub-
sistence exp. provided 50% of contract. ¾ 
work guarantee applies. $9.30/hr. cuc. piece 
rate: .50 cents per 5/8 bu. Weather may fluc-
tuate hrs; downtimes. Reqd. show proof of 
legal authority to work in U.S. Apply at Local 
Job Service Office, Reference: NC10018922     
4-1-1-14
Web Designer/Project Manager (immediate opening). Design (photoshop) and coordinate 
building of websites. Photoshop required. 
HTML, CSS, Joomla, Flash preferred. 20-40 
hours/wk, flexible hours. Email cover letter/ 
resume/portfolio to jobs@GINsystem.com.   
4-7-11-5-14ASAP! New Pay Increase! 34-46 cpm. 
Excellent Benefits. Need CDL-A & 3 mos re-
cent OTR. (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.
com    4-1-1-14
Driver - Recession proof refrigerated freight. 
Plenty of miles. Need refresher? Free tuition 
at FFE. $1000 Sign-on. Pet & Rider policy. 
CO & O/O's. recruit@ffex.net. (855)289-
2217   4-1-1-14
Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL 
NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Susan ext. 227 
Pam ext. 238 SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC   
4-1-1-14
Need CDL Drivers A or B with 2 yrs recent 
commercial experience to transfer motor 
homes, straight trucks, and tractors. www.
mamotransportation.com (800)501-3783   
4-1-1-14
Driver- STRONG Freight *REGIONAL or 
EXPRESS lanes *F/T or P/T *LOCAL ori-
entation *DAILY or WEEKLY pay! CDL-A, 3 
months current OTR experience. (800)414-
9569. www.driveknight.com   4-1-1-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
ARC Lifeguard Training
Starts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
CASH NOW! Cash for your structured 
settlement or annuity payments. Call J.G. 
Wentworth. 1-866-494-9115. Rated A+ by 
the Better Business Bureau.    4-1-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? 
Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low 
rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! 
Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.
com    4-1-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, 
*Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.
com    4-1-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA approved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769.    4-1-1-15
"Can You Dig It?" Heavy Equipment School. 3wk training program. Backhoes, Bulldozers, Trackhoes. Local job placement asst. Start digging dirt Now. (866)362-6497    4-1-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses 
Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen 
Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   
7-22-11-100-16
CPR training is back!
Need CPR/AED or 1st Aid?
Meets internship requirements
FloridaHeartsaver.org
(352)575-0119                        4-8-20-16
● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF students
GatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.  
4-4-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.com
then call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, Natz, H1B Visas
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
(904) 425-8078
4-4-14-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Casting call for feature film: The Best 
Western Gateway Grand at the Northwest 
quadrant of the intersection of I-75 and exit 
390. April 2nd, 9am - 4pm. Please visit
www.SwampTales.us for more information.
4-1-11-13-20
Get Your Ad Noticed Here and in Over 100 
Papers throughout Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! (866)742-1373www.florida-classifieds.com.    4-1-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
McintoshWorld.com. Your Boutique in a barn. 
Gifts-Reggae-Music-Drums-Shoes-Sandals-Boots-Stickers-Posters-Paintings-Cards-Books-Counter culture-Greatful Dead-LP's- HWY:441. 15 min. South. Spend some time...Formerly Environmental Circus - Key West.     4-4-11-2-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42x
Any info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
Sports
FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
POLL QUESTION ONLINE GRANT, ALABAMA FALL IN NIT FINALS
Today’s question: Who will score the most 
rushing touchdowns for the Gators this fall?n Check out our website at alligatorSports.org for updates 
and stories from all the Gators’ weekend action, including the Florida Relays and football spring practice. Also follow us on Twitter at twitter.com/alligatorSports, and be sure to subscribe to the alligatorSports Podcast on iTunes.n Former Florida assistant coach Anthony Grant and the 
Alabama basketball team lost to Wichita State 66-57 in the National Invitation Tournament championship game Thursday night. The Crimson Tide finished the season 25-12 after winning the SEC West with a 12-4 mark.Special to the Alligator, UF Communications
Florida senior running back Chris Rainey spoke to the media Thursday for the first time since his Sept. 14 arrest for aggravated stalking, saying he has grown up and is looking to leave last year behind him.
UF FOOTBALL
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
tjett@alligator.org
 
The most frequent talking 
point throughout Florida’s spring 
practices has been about fresh starts, and perhaps no player is 
poised to capitalize on the Gators’ 
changing of the guard more than Chris Rainey.
The redshirt senior running 
back is coming off his least pro-ductive year at UF since 2007, when he sat out all but four games with a shoulder injury. At the same time, last season was 
the most newsworthy of Rainey’s 
career, as he was arrested for ag-gravated stalking and received a five-game suspension.
Addressing reporters for the 
first time since his arrest on Sept. 14, Rainey said he grew up last fall, although he declined to elab-orate further.
“I look in the future,” he said. 
“That’s in the past. New team, new me, new system.”
And with the offense shifting 
from the spread to the I-forma-tion, Rainey is the early favorite to receive the bulk of Florida’s carries. 
Freshman Mike Blakely 
(shoulder surgery), sophomore Mack Brown (broken fibula) and junior Mike Gillislee (stress frac-
ture in his foot) will miss the rest 
of spring with injuries, and senior Jeff Demps can only participate in walkthroughs and team meetings as  he continues running track this spring.
Rainey wishes he could split 
practice reps with some of the other backs, but he has impressed 
the coaching staff thus far. Coach 
Will Muschamp said Rainey will thrive in the I-formation, as it causes him to line up deeper in the backfield than he did in the spread offense. 
“Chris Rainey has had a good 
spring,” Muschamp said. “He’s a guy that makes an awful lot of 
plays. … You’ve got to be really 
gap-sound on him.”
Running plays take a longer 
time to develop in the new of-fense, giving Rainey more free-dom to cut back as he sees anoth-er lane develop. He thrived in a similar offense at Lakeland High.Rainey optimistic about new opportunity, offense
 THE FORMER ASSOCIATE HEAD 
COACH WAS BILLY DONOVAN’S LONGEST-TENURED ASSISTANT.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
 
After helping lead Florida back to the 
Elite Eight, Larry Shyatt is returning to his 
former home.
Shyatt, the associate head coach under 
Billy Donovan, signed a five-year deal Thursday to become the coach at Wyo-ming, where he held his first head coach-ing job in 1997-98. According to the Casper Star-Tribune, Shyatt’s contract is worth more than $700,000 per season, plus incen-tives.
“I’ve spent seven great years at the Uni-
versity of Florida helping to build a cham-pionship-caliber program, and this is one of the only places I would have considered 
leaving for,” Shyatt said in a statement. 
“I’m excited about the commitment of the administration, and the passionate fan base I remember at Wyoming, and I can’t wait to meet, work with and develop a great re-
lationship with the current team.” 
Shyatt went 19-9 with the Cowboys in 
1997-98 before accepting a head coaching 
job at Clemson, where he worked until 2003. 
He then joined Donovan at UF, win-
ning back-to-back national championships 
as an assistant before becoming the associate 
head coach in 2007.
The 59-year-old Shy-
att has been coaching 
college basketball since 1975, when he served 
as an assistant at Utah, and he was Dono-van’s longest-tenured assistant at UF.
“For me personally there’s both an 
excitement and sadness,” Donovan said in a statement. “Larry is one of my clos-est friends, and his impact here at Florida over the last seven years has been immea-surable. 
“He’s one of the great minds in basket-
ball and he deserves this opportunity.”Shyatt inks five-year deal 
as Wyoming’s head coach
By JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
The Florida Relays, established in 
1939, is one of two events the Gators 
will host on the Percy Beard Track at Pressly Stadium during the outdoor season. But the venue doesn’t matter too much to UF track and field coach 
Mike Holloway.
“If we put our spikes on and put our 
uniforms on and there’s a gun, we’re 
going to be excited about it,” Holloway said. “Being in the Florida Relays is fun because we’re at home, but it doesn’t change the fact that we’re competing.”
When the Gators suit up for the 
Florida Relays today , much of the No. 1 men’s team will be competing for the 
first time since it captured its second consecutive NCAA Indoor Champion-
ship.
“This is where it starts for all of us,” 
junior Will Claye said. “The team wants to win another title, so we’ve got to get some work done this weekend.”
Claye, whose ef-
forts in the triple 
jump and long jump earned Florida 18 
points at the national 
indoor meet, is hop-ing the team’s suc-cess can translate to the outdoor season.
“Obviously, our 
indoor season was successful, but we want our outdoor season to be even more successful,” Claye said. “If we UF to host Florida Relays 
seeking hot outdoor start
Bask etballSEE FOOTBALL, p AGE 22
SEE TRACK, p AGE 22Holloway
  By ALLISON BANKO
 Alligator Writer 
 Second place isn’t bad. In fact, with the tal-
ent in the Southeastern Conference, it’s pretty 
impressive. 
  That’s what the Gators keep telling them-
selves. 
  But heading into the postseason with their 
No. 1 national ranking still intact makes the sting of losing a winnable meet that much more biting.  
  But this weekend will present a new, more 
important, opportunity for UF.
  Accepting that SEC competition is over, the 
Gators decided they would rather hold a dif-ferent title. And this weekend will bring them 
one step closer to it. 
  “Of course we wanted to be SEC cham-
pions,” senior Maranda Smith said. “But it 
would be even better to be the national cham-pion.” 
  Florida will take part in the NCAA North 
Central Region Championships in Denver on Saturday , and two of the six teams competing will advance to the NCAA Championships 
later this month. 
  The Gators have claimed a regional title 
and made it to the NCAA Super Six every year since 2006. 
  Looking back at the ﬂ  aws that stained their 
performances in the SEC meet, the Gators real-
ized the little things sank them against cham-pion Alabama.
  “It was the ﬁ  ne details like the wobbles and 
not getting the stuck landings,” sophomore Ashanée Dickerson said. “We’ve been work-ing on that to perfect those things so that we can be on top in the end.”
  With two weeks of practice under their 
belts, the gymnasts have honed in on the ﬁ  ner points of nailing their landings, pointing their toes and focusing on such details as ﬁ  nger 
tightness. 
  On top of polishing those aspects, fresh-
man Mackenzie Caquatto said the team has 
been working on boosting its conﬁ  dence. 
  “We were a little hesitant at SECs,” she 
said. “We just didn’t go aggressively toward everything that we knew how to do.” 
  UF’s coaching staff has been making efforts 
to up the aggression of the athletes by creat-
ing a competitive atmosphere leading up to 
the meet. 
  “Often times in practice, the athlete can get 
a little bit lazy , knowing it’s not really in front of the judge,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. “We continually are trying to put them in pressure situations where they feel like they have to step up.”
    The Gators’ conﬁ  dence will be tested al-
most immediately in Magness Arena as they will begin the meet on ﬂ  oor, the event that ar-guably calls for the biggest jolt of energy . 
  Caquatto said the gymnasts have to change their focus before they enter the gym by reliev-ing pressure they’ve put on themselves. 
  “We’re not focusing on, ‘Oh my gosh, we’re 
the No. 1 team; we have to do really good,’” she said. “It’s focusing on what you have to do when you get up there and not worrying about anything else that’s going on.” FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 21
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
UF senior Maranda Smith said No. 1 Florida is looking to get over the disappointment 
of a second-place ﬁ  nish at the SEC meet in Saturday’s NCAA regional competition.
UF GYMNASTICS Gators head to regionalsBy STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
As senior ace Stephanie Brombacher re-
covers from bicep tenderness, what was once 
considered a strength for the Gators is now a question mark.
After a disappointing series last weekend, 
No. 5 Florida (30-4, 7-3 Southeastern Confer -
ence) will have a chance to rebound in Lexing-
ton tonight at 6 against No. 23 Kentucky (22-
7, 8-3 SEC) with one improvement in mind: pitching. 
Filling in for a suspended Hannah Rogers, 
sophomore Ensley Gammel struggled might-
ily, surrendering 20 earned runs in 12 innings. 
When Rogers returned to attempt to sal-
vage the series, the freshman allowed a sea-
son-high five runs in only her second loss. 
Gammel’s inconsistency has forced UF 
coach Tim Walton to use third baseman Kasey 
Fagan in the circle. 
While Fagan was a successful pitcher in 
high school, she and Walton envisioned her 
playing a different position at the college lev-
el. 
“We discussed her future role, and she told 
me she’d really like to focus on defense and hitting as opposed to pitching,” Walton said.
In her only appearance this season, Fagan 
gave up three runs in two innings against a talented Georgia offense. 
The versatile freshman spent the week throwing bullpen sessions, so she wasn’t sur -
prised to be called upon when Gammel strug-
gled.  
But a few throwing sessions could not com-pare to the pressure of facing the Bulldogs’ 
hot-hitting lineup. 
“There was definitely that nerve factor 
right away,” Fagan said. “I was worried about letting them score, but I was worried if I would even keep them off base at all.” 
Fagan said her pitching role will be limited 
to emergency situations, and she enjoys play-ing the infield and hitting more than pitching. 
“I don’t think she’d be a dominating, shut-
down pitcher at our level,” Walton said. “But 
with her super-competitive nature, she could 
be a good pitcher going one time through the 
lineup.” 
After showing flashes of promise as a fresh-
man last season, Gammel’s struggles this year have been disappointing.
Prior to the Georgia series, she had only 
pitched 11.1 innings, and Walton said her lack of confidence is affecting her performance. 
“She hasn’t quite delivered in the confi-
dence area,” Walton said. “Her preseason per -
formances in scrimmages have carried over 
into the regular season.” 
Meanwhile, Rogers is looking to bounce 
back from a rough start and will need to focus 
on being more effective with her location. 
“If there’s such a thing, she threw too many 
strikes,” Walton said. “They made her throw 
pitches in hitter’s counts and they capital-
ized.” 
Although Brombacher threw bullpen ses-
sions Tuesday and Wednesday, her status 
hasn’t changed from last week. 
If she is unable to go, Rogers will likely start 
all three games, and once again, the Gators’ 
pitching depth will be tested.22, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman third baseman Kasey Fagan was forced to pitch last weekend, but 
her time in the circle will be limited to only emergency situations going forward. 
UF SOFTBALLFagan back to normal position after brief pitching stint
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
As Amanda O’Leary coached 
Florida’s women’s lacrosse team to 
a two-goal victory over Penn State last season, she couldn’t help but think back to 1988. 
After all, when she played for 
Temple, a victory over her in-state rival was always a big moment in the 1980s women’s lacrosse world. 
The Owls and the Nittany Lions 
were the ruling powerhouses that combined for two national cham-pionships during O’Leary’s four years in Philadelphia.
“That was a huge rivalry for us, way back in the dark ages of wom-en’s lacrosse … when the cave people walked the Earth,” O’Leary said, jokingly. “A lot of Pennsyl-
vania players either chose to go to 
Temple or to Penn State. So, it was not only just a huge in-state rival-ry; it was in high schools.” 
The Gators (10-1, 1-0 American 
Lacrosse Conference) will get an-other chance to face their coach’s collegiate rival and their current conference foe in University Park, 
Pa., against No. 16 Penn State (6-4, 
1-0 ALC) on Saturday at noon.
In her playing days from 1985-
1988, O’Leary lost only five times. Three of those defeats were at the hands of the Nittany Lions, includ-ing the 1987 national champion-ship when Temple fell 8-7.
Though O’Leary would avenge 
her gut-wrenching loss to the Nit-
tany Lions a year later with a 15-7 win in the title game, capping off a 19-0 senior campaign, she 
wouldn’t get a chance to face Penn State for the next 22 years.
That is, until last season.With a 13-11 win over the Nit-
tany Lions in Gainesville on April 3, 2010, the Gators helped O’Leary grab another win over her col-legiate rival. Although it was her fifth victory over Penn State, the 
experience still had a novel feel-
ing.
“As a player, it’s, ‘Ah, this team, 
we’ve got to beat this team.’ Where-as it’s just a conference rivalry as a coach, so it’s a little different,” O’Leary said. “But just last year, it was the first conference win, so I think that’s why it was so epic and 
why it was so memorable.”
This year’s matchup looks to 
be even tougher, with Penn State 
currently on a five-game win-ning streak after a 1-4 start. Two of those wins have been against ranked opponents, including an ALC win over No. 13 Vanderbilt on March 20.
“We not only have the challenge of them being another ALC team, but also the challenge of going on 
the road again since we haven’t 
been traveling since the beginning of February,” sophomore Kitty Cullen said.
The Gators’ attack, led by Cul-
len’s NCAA-best 49 goals, will be going against the best statistical defense they have faced all sea-son. The Nittany Lions have the 
nation’s sixth-best scoring defense 
and have held opponents to single-digit scoring in each of their last five games. 
“It would definitely not only be 
good to beat them two years in a row, but to also show that we are a premier team in the ALC and that we want one of those top seeds in 
the tournament,” Cullen said.
O’Leary to face old rival Penn State with new team
Former Temple star to lead Gators vs. Nittany Lions
Lacrosse
stay humble and healthy , everything will take care 
of itself.”
Considering how the Gators’ last two national 
championship runs turned out, even the smallest contribution from Claye will prove to be valuable.
The men have placed second at the NCAA Out-
door Championships for two consecutive seasons, losing by a combined three points.
“We don’t have any plans of trying to pick up 
another silver trophy ,” Holloway said. “We’ve done enough of that around here.”
UF missed out on taking home the 2010 NCAA 
Outdoor Championship by one point, finishing behind Texas A&M, but was in position to win thanks partly to the efforts of jumper Christian Taylor.
Taylor, the defending outdoor national triple-jump champion, placed second to Claye at the na-tional indoor meet this season.
“We’ve got to feed off of (back-to-back second-
place finishes),” Taylor said. “Nobody wants to be 
No. 2 — that’s the first loser. We have a champion-
ship on our mind.”
One of the athletes the Gators will look to for a 
boost this outdoor season will be thrower Jeremy Postin, who set a school record in the hammer throw at the UCF Invitational last weekend.
While Postin’s throw (64.70m/212-3) was a UF 
record, it may not have been his best.
Postin said he “warmed up a little better” than 
he competed, and Holloway believes the senior is capable of performing at a higher level.
“All of the hard work that he put in indoors 
and leading up to outdoors showed immediate results,” throws coach Steve Lemke said. “We are expecting big things from him this season.”Consecutive No. 2 finishes fuel Florida
TRACK , from page 20Reed adjusting to playing 
exclusively tight end, not QB
“You’ve seen high school for 
me,” said Rainey, who ran for 
2,478 yards and 32 touchdowns as a senior at Lakeland. “It’s just like that.”
REED STILL ADJUSTING: In his 
two years in Gainesville, sopho-
more Jordan Reed has gone from quarterback to tight end back to quarterback and finally back to tight end. 
Still, he feels he has plenty 
to learn this spring as Florida’s starting tight end.
In the spread offense, the tight 
end’s role revolved around the passing game. 
In the new offense, how-
ever, Reed will be asked to line up next to offensive tackles and 
block more on running plays, something he rarely had to do last year, and he 
cited that as the 
area in which he needs the 
most improve-ment.
DUNBAR IMPRESSING: Wide re-
ceiver Frankie Hammond Jr. said the most eye-opening player 
in his position group so far this 
spring has been freshman Quin-ton Dunbar. 
Dunbar, who missed all of last 
season with a hamstring injury, has emerged as a deep threat for the team, Hammond said. FOOTBALL , from page 20
Reed
FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 23
UF ROUNDUP
By THOMAS NASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
When Alexandre Lacroix takes 
the court at Linder Stadium this 
weekend, it will be the beginning of the end for the senior star.
While it won’t be Lacroix’s last 
time playing in Gainesville, UF’s emotional leader will be honored Sunday before the Gators’ match 
against Vanderbilt during the Flor -
ida’s Senior Day festivities.
“Alex is one of the all-time 
greats at Florida, having won more 
doubles matches than anybody 
else,” UF coach Andy Jackson 
said. “He’s in the top 10 in basi-cally every other category, and in my opinion, he has a chance to win 
the NCAA in both singles and in 
doubles.”
Aside from Lacroix’s 95 doubles 
victories and 100 singles wins, La-croix has been the centerpiece of a 
Gators squad that has faced a more 
than trying schedule this season.“He’s the leader of our team,” 
Jackson said. “We like to feel like we have a chance in both the SEC as a team and the NCAA as a team, and it’s because of him.”
Even though Lacroix’s official 
sendoff will be Sunday, he and the rest of No. 15 Florida won’t be too caught up in the ceremony.
The team will return to 
Gainesville in the postseason to hold the Southeastern Conference Tournament, and winning the con-ference is still a major goal for the 
Gators, who are only the fourth-
ranked team in the SEC.
In one of Florida’s most impor -
tant matchups of the season, the Gators (12-5, 5-1 SEC) will host No. 
14 Kentucky (18-6, 3-3 SEC) today 
at 3 p.m.
Although Florida has an easier 
draw with Vanderbilt (10-7, 1-5) on 
Sunday, it’s almost essential for UF 
to beat Kentucky in order to carry some momentum into next week’s matches against two top-10 oppo-nents.
Lacroix will certainly play a key 
role in today’s match against the Wildcats, but he will reflect on his career, still knowing he isn’t done 
quite yet.
“He’s well aware, I’m well 
aware, and our team is well aware that we have a long way to go,” 
Jackson said. “We feel like there’s four or five teams that could win [the SEC], and we feel like we’re one of them.”
WOMEN’S GOLF READY FOR UN-
USUAL FORMAT AT LIZ MURPHY COLLEGIATE CLASSIC: Golf is rarely 
considered a team sport, but the Florida women’s golf team will 
have to play as one at the Liz Mur -
phy Collegiate Classic.
The event is adopting a new 
format where all five players of each team play their rounds to-gether rather than divided up into 
groups as usual. Instead of calcu-
lating each team’s score by adding up the four best rounds, the four lowest scores from each hole will be included in the team total.
In golf, perhaps the ultimate 
individual sport, it is a big ad-justment for players to be paired alongside teammates with whom 
they practice on a regular basis.
But the Gators have been pre-
paring for this mental test. 
“We’ve played together for 
three rounds,” UF coach Jan Dowl-ing said. “We’ve really learned 
how to play together as a team, which isn’t something we usually do.”
Florida has had a four-week 
layoff since early March, when it won the Gator Invitational by 17 strokes. UF won on the strength of top-10 individual finishes by Mia 
Piccio, Evan Jensen, and Isabelle 
Lendl, who all tied for seventh.
The team’s success this season 
has been due in large part to Pic-
cio. The sophomore had a busy 
fall schedule that included tourna-ments in China and Argentina in addition to the five she competed in for Florida. 
Piccio’s consistency has been 
her strongest attribute. She has fin-ished in the top 20 of every spring tournament, including a top-10 
showing at the Gator Invitational. 
“When she plays well, we usu-
ally have a pretty good tourna-
ment as a team,” Dowling said.
The Gators will be looking to 
build on their finish at the Gator In-vitational, using the Liz Murphey Classic as a springboard heading into the SEC and NCAA Champi-
onships in the coming weeks.
— ALEX PECKHAMLacroix to be honored before Gators take on ‘Cats
“Alex is one of the all-time 
greats at Florida, having 
won more doubles match -
es than anybody else.”
Andy Jackson
Florida men’s tennis coachBy JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
It’s been a revolving door at 
third base for Florida this season, 
but coach Kevin O’Sullivan is ready to give one freshman a chance to lock it up. 
“We’ve worked a couple differ -
ent guys there,” O’Sullivan said. “But we’re starting to really like 
the fact that Zack Powers has qui-
etly been OK over there. I think we’re getting to a point where we just need to play him.”
Powers is one of five Gators to 
start at least two games at third, but inconsistency — whether at the 
plate or in the field — has limited 
each player’s opportunities. The lanky, 6-foot-3, 200-pound 
freshman will make his third straight start when No. 4 Florida (21-5, 4-2 Southeastern Confer -
ence) challenges Tennessee (19-6, 
2-4 SEC) tonight at 7 in McKethan 
Stadium, where the Gators will look to rebound from their current rut of three losses in four games.   
Much was made during the 
offseason about the strides Austin Maddox made toward becoming a solid defensive third baseman. However, the reigning SEC Fresh-
man of the Year has played just 
four games at the hot corner, and he hasn’t manned the position since the series opener against Miami on March 4. 
Powers has started 12 games 
but is second on the club in errors and bats just .237. 
“It’s one of those positions 
where a lot of guys are getting an opportunity to play over there, and it’d be nice if someone stepped up,” second baseman Josh Adams said. 
In last weekend’s series loss to 
No. 3 South Carolina, O’Sullivan rolled out three straight lineups with a different third baseman.
Aside from Powers, junior col-
lege transfer Jeff Moyer, freshman Tyler Palmer and sophomore Cody Dent have all been in the mix. But none have done enough to warrant everyday playing time.
Moyer is the team’s best pinch-
hitter, but he has struggled defen-sively. Palmer and Dent haven’t shown the requisite hitting ability. 
Of the group, Powers has flashed 
the most potential with solid, yet vacillating, glove work.
The freshman has made several 
heads-up plays, including the first hidden ball trick earlier this sea-son. 
“We’re confident, whoever is 
over there, that they will get the job done,” Adams said.
But O’Sullivan said Powers has 
been the most consistent, and “he’s getting quality at-bats and plays re-
ally good defense.
“He is a freshman and will have 
his ups and downs, but I’m start-
ing to think that, at this point in the season, if we can keep him in there consistently, he might be a re-ally good player by the end of the year.”
Etc.: Hudson Randall (4-0, 0.66 
ERA) is scheduled to start to-night’s opener, as Brian Johnson (4-1, 2.86 ERA) was bumped to Sat-
urday to mix up the righty/lefty 
rotation. … After shuffling the lineup Tuesday, O’Sullivan hinted his original batting order could return because the Volunteers are 
throwing two left-handed starters 
this weekend. … O’Sullivan also confirmed that Alex Panteliodis is not suffering any lingering effects 
from last season’s hip injury and 
is slated to pitch some time dur -
ing the Tennessee series.24, ALLIGATOR n FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 2011
Harrison Diamond / Alligator
Florida freshman third baseman Zack Powers is one of five Gators to start at least two games at third 
base this season, and he will make his third straight start at the hot corner tonight against Tennessee.
UF BASEBALLPowers getting chance to solidify spot at third base