We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 50 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida forward 
Alex Tyus (right) 
has been  strong 
defensively and on 
the boards as  of 
late in UF’s attempt 
to make a deep 
NCAA Tournament 
run in his final year 
of eligibility.  
See Story, Page 30.
Oregon firefighters now trained to perform CPR on pets
ASHLAND, Ore. — Some Oregon fire-
fighters and paramedics are now equipped 
and trained to give first aid to dogs, cats and other pets.
The Daily Tidings reports that Ashland 
Fire & Rescue firefighters were trained last week to do CPR on dogs, cats, ferrets, gerbils and even reptiles that have inhaled smoke. 
All five department engines now carry 
oxygen masks for pets.
Division Chief Greg Case says rescuing pets involved in fires helps the entire family. Firefighters treat people first and will help pets if possible.
Veterinarian Dr. Alice Sievers says small-
er animals can be placed inside the masks, while the devices can be fitted over the nose or beak of larger animals.
The department received equipment 
through a donation from Project Breathe.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSSunny
85/60FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 25
CROSSWORD 27
SPORTS 30
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Mayor Craig Lowe shakes the hand of Larry Gibson, environmental activist against moun -
taintop removal via coal mining, after screening the movie “Low Coal” at The Venue on Tuesday night.  
The screening was part of the Cinema Verde Environmental Film and Arts Festival.
n A MOVIE ON THE ISSUE 
WAS ALSO SHOWN AT THE VENUE ON TUESDAY NIGHT.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
Larry Gibson knows how a 
mountain dies. 
He’s seen it happen in West 
Virginia, where he has watched 
the surrounding mountaintops be-
come flattened in the name of coal 
mining. 
The 65-year-old is an activist for 
the Appalachian Mountain region, striving to teach people the reali-
ties of the coal industry and its ef-
fects on mountains and the people who live on or near them.
Gibson’s work brings him 
to Gainesville this week as he spreads his message to members of the community and to energy-industry employees. 
“We’re dealing with the annihi-lation of part of your country,” he 
said. “And it’s called Appalachia.”
Gibson will speak about his 
cause at UF at noon today in Room 
107 of Marston Science Library, 
said Jason Fults, an electrician’s 
apprentice for the International Brotherhood of Electrical Work-ers who helped arrange Gibson’s visit.
One of Gibson’s key causes is 
the issue of mountaintop removal coal mining.
This form of mining involves 
the use of explosives to blow mountaintops apart after razing 
the area and removing trees and 
other plants, according to the web-site for Earthjustice, a non-profit, public-interest law firm focused on 
environmental issues.
Mountaintop removal mining 
has flattened a region the size of 
Delaware and has buried or de-stroyed more than 2,000 miles of 
streams that were used for drink-Activist to speak out 
against coal miningBy HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Members of Graduate Assistants United, the union for all 
graduate assistants at UF, rallied Tuesday in protest of two 
proposed bills that would take away the rights of unions in Florida. 
Jose Soto, co-bargaining chair of GAU, said about 150 people, mostly GAU members, showed up on the Plaza of the Americas to defend their rights as union members. 
One of the bills in question, Senate Bill 830, 
will eliminate the deduction of wages used to directly finance union dues. It would go into 
effect July 1. 
Soto said this would make it harder to collect dues.
If passed, House Bill 1023 would require that unions have membership of at least 50 percent of the labor force they rep-resent to have the ability to collectively bargain. 
Collective bargaining is a negotiation between a labor 
union and an employer, usually dealing with wages, hours or working conditions.
Soto said there are about 4,400 graduate assistants, only 
700 of which are part of GAU. 
If HB 1023 is passed, GAU would need at least 2,200 
members to be able to retain collective bargaining rights.Graduate assistants protest anti-union bills
About 15 percent of grad assitants are in union
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Senators unanimously passed a resolution 
honoring the memory of UF freshman Molly 
Ammon, who was found dead March 13, dur -
ing Tuesday night’s meeting.
The resolution honored her for “her kind-ness and unforgettable laugh.”
Ammon, a member of Delta Delta Delta 
sorority, was found dead in a condo in Made-
ria Beach where she was spending her Spring 
Break.
While the official cause of death is still un-
known, Ammon’s parents told reporters they knew she had been drinking.
Senator Ingrid Tojanci, one of Ammon’s sorority sisters, encouraged everyone to know their limits when they consume alcohol.
Student Body Treasurer-elect TJ Villamil 
also spoke to senators about a proposed $110 million renovation and expansion project for the Reitz Union. 
He explained the addition to the facility 
would expand into the Reitz Union Amphi-theater and North Lawn from the colonnade section like an atrium. 
Right now, Villamil said, the programming 
committee is looking for ways to fund the 
project. He said none of the funding will come 
from student fees. 
Villamil said the Reitz Union will be con-
sidered a historic building in 2017 and reno-vations will no longer be allowed, so he said construction would have to begin soon.Senate honors student who died on Spring BreakSEE GAU, p AGE 5
SEE ENVIRONMENT, p AGE 5NewsStateNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 50 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Peace Corps 50th Anniversary
Today, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Plaza of the AmericasUF Peace Corps is celebrating 50 years of volunteer service and contributing to a better 
world. Come by to talk to re-
turned Peace Corps Volunteers and hear their amazing stories. Chat with the UF Peace Corps recruiter about Peace Corps history, and find out more information about getting in-volved with related student organizations.
Golden Key General Body 
Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.Turlington L005There will be a Q-and-A ses-sion before the meeting starts to answer any questions stu-dents may have about join-ing Golden Key. The group 
will be discussing its plans 
for Relay for Life and offer -
ing visitors the chance to hear the bands scheduled to play at its upcoming “Rock for the Hungry” benefit concert. of elections as a democratiz-
ing mechanism rather than 
an institutionalized part of neo-authoritarianism. These effects are, however, limited by the impact of an economy dependent on the export of petroleum. These results sug-gest that elections do not have an unambiguous significance 
for democracy but that their 
meaning and impact is highly dependent on context.Prospective members are 
especially encouraged to at-
tend this meeting, and as al-ways there will be free pizza and drinks.
Are Elections a Feature of 
N e o - A u t h o r i t a r i a n i s m 
or a Mechanism for Democratization?
Today, 11:45 a.m.Turlington 3312The dominant view of elec-tions used to be that they were central to democratiza-
tion. In this talk by Ruchan 
Kaya, it is shown that two sub-regions in the post-communist space — the Caspian and Black Sea ba-sins — exhibit patterns more consistent with the theory 
SUNNY
85/60PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/52SUNNY
82/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
86/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
87/60SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
John Kaplan likened the pain 
to what it must feel like to get 
shot. 
He said the 20 seconds it took 
to conduct his bone marrow bi-opsy felt like an eternity, and he’s got the pictures to prove it. 
Kaplan, a UF photojour -
nalism professor and Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist, documented his journey through non-Hodgkins lymphoma in his uplifting documentary, “Not As I 
Pictured,” which will air on local 
television stations Thursday and Saturday. 
It will premiere locally Thurs-
day and Saturday at 8 p.m. on WUFT-TV , Gainesville’s PBS sta-tion.
“It was a simple way to cope 
with my fear,” said Kaplan, who 
was diagnosed with the disease 
in 2008. “I believed if I were able to go into remission, the work I was doing could really help other 
people too.” 
Though he admits chemo-
therapy made his schedule chal-
lenging and left him fatigued, he never missed a class. 
“You want to be able to help 
people in the way you did before your diagnosis,” he said. “It was good for my psyche.”  
Before he knew he would even 
make it to remission, Kaplan started stringing photographs and video together to mold his 54-minute documentary.
The film consists almost entire-
ly of self-taken shots. The theme song, however, stems locally. 
Maria Carter, a UF graduate 
who took Kaplan’s design class, 
was asked by the professor to write a song for the documen-
tary.
Carter said it was difficult to 
write lyrics about cancer without 
having been there herself. 
But the lyrics of her song, “Not 
As I Pictured,” would hit close to 
home last March when she was 
diagnosed with gynecologic can-cer.
“Now when I sing the song, 
I realized I knew more than I 
thought I did. It’s still really ac-
curate,” Carter said. 
Carter, who is currently in re-
mission, said Kaplan’s documen-
tary maintains hope, a conscious 
effort he made from the start. “Who wants to watch a poor 
sick guy for an hour?” Kaplan 
asked. “When I made the movie, I made sure to put in a lot of up-
beat scenes.
At the end, people tell us they 
feel better after watching it.” 
Kaplan said his 7-year-old 
daughter, Carina, and 5-year-old 
son, Max, are too young to watch his documentary, but they aren’t clueless as to what their father’s been up to.  
“They knew that daddy had 
boo-boos,” Kaplan said. “Now they know that daddy made a 
movie about his boo-boos.” 
Not just any movie, though — 
a movie that has won more than 
20 awards and nominations. 
He has also established a goal 
of giving away 10,000 copies to those affected by cancer. Each copy comes with an American Society of Clinical Oncology can-
cer coping guide.
Currently, Kaplan has worked 
toward 15 percent of his goal be-
fore the national public relations campaign set to launch in April.4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
Special To the Alligator
John Kaplan, a UF professor, made a documentary about himself and his battle with cancer. The film, 
“Not As I Pictured,” will air on PBS WUFT-TV on Thursday at 8 p.m.
FACULTY PROJECTS
Professor’s documentary chronicles fight with cancer
“I believed if I were able to 
go into remission, the work 
I was doing could really 
help other people too.” 
John Kaplan
UF photojornalism professorWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
n NO ONE WAS INJURED.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
A grease fire caused minimal 
damage in a Lakeside Residence 
Hall kitchen Monday night.
No one was hurt, and all stu-
dents were evacuated from Build-
ing 1182, said Sharon Blansett, 
assistant director for housing.
“We don’t have too many 
fires, thank goodness,” Blansett said. “But when we do have fires, it’s usually the result of cooking errors.”
She said the department has 
yet to estimate the cost of any 
damages.
The Lakeside building’s fire alarm sounded at about 10:50 
p.m. The fire was put out before it triggered ceiling sprinklers.
Gainesville Fire Department 
arrived on the scene with fans to clear out the smoke in the halls before students were allowed back into their rooms.
Sophomore Holly Brady said 
she was in the middle of a 1,500-word paper for her history of the Holocaust class when she heard the alarm and her roommate told her to get out.
She recounted a similar fire 
last year, which put students out of their rooms for three hours. To 
pass the time, they played a few 
rounds of “never have I ever” and told stories.
Brady said next time she’ll re-
member to bring a Frisbee.Dorm evacuated 
after kitchen fireUF is monitoring the situation closely
He said if that happens, 
things like health care for in-
ternational graduate assistants, stipends and other benefits 
couldn’t be bargained for in 
contracts because they are nego-
tiated by GAU.
“Everything that is promised to them won’t necessarily be 
there in the future,” Soto said.
UF spokeswoman Janine 
Sikes said things are constantly 
changing and the university thinks it is too early to comment on the 
situation. 
“Like the GAU, the univer -
sity is closely watching what is happening with the unions and in Tallahassee,” she said. 
Soto said he and GAU will 
continue to work with the UF administration in hopes of con-tinuing the relationship they have had and to work out what is going on in Tallahassee.
“We have a very important 
shared goal: to improve Gator Nation,” he said.GAU , from page 1
Cinema Verde festival ends Sunday
ing water, according to the website.
Gibson arrived Tuesday and met with 
Gainesville Regional Utilities employees to dis-
cuss the need for awareness about how coal pro-
duction hurts the Appalachia region. 
While GRU employees were receptive to his 
message, he is waiting to see if they act on the in-
justices of the coal industry’s use of the Appala-
chia region. 
“You can talk green all you want. If you don’t 
do it, why talk it?” Gibson said.
He also attended a screening of “Low Coal,” a film about the coal industry in which he is fea-tured, at The Venue on Tuesday evening as part of the local Cinema Verde Environmental Film and Arts Festival.
Trish Riley, the film festival’s director, said the 
film is one of 25 featured in the second annual fes-tival, which began March 18 and ends March 27.ENVIRONMENT , from page 1NewsState
“You can talk green all you want. If you 
don’t do it, why talk it?”
Larry Gibson
ActivistThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do Florida’s budget cuts worry you? 56% YES44% NO
103 TOTAL VOTESTuesday’s question:  Do general education courses only waste students’ time?
The idea of screening welfare candidates and recipi-
ents for drugs didn’t come out of the blue. Gov. Rick Scott hinted at it during his campaign. In fact, it was 
one of the few things we thought Scott was on the right track with. 
Now the concept is coming to fruition. There’s a House bill making its way through committee 
that would require every welfare recipient with a felony drug charge to take a drug test. With this bill being tossed around, however, we’re beginning to see problems with the plan.
At first blush, we liked the concept of ensuring people 
receiving state funds weren’t using them to further a drug habit. Forcing welfare recipients to keep clean could act as a deterrent against one of the worst contributors to the cycle of poverty. Maybe the promise of funds would help 
some people break their habits.
Then again, maybe not. 
After all, stopping cold turkey doesn’t tend to work. For our coffee-chugging readers, imagine going from 
drinking a pot one day to absolutely no joe the next. If the 
irritability and lethargy don’t get to you, the headaches 
will. 
If someone can’t break the habit and loses their assis-
tance, the state would recoup some of its money. Keeping 
that in mind, supporters of the bill seem almost sinister by 
betting on drug addiction as a way to fuel a budget cut. 
It also seems cruel — although budget-friendly — to 
make people pay for their drug testing when they are ap-plying for financial assistance. Of course, this makes sense 
for drug users, but the majority of people would be shell-
ing out money they don’t have for a test that may not even be constitutional. 
That’s right: The idea has been tested before in other 
states, and a court in Michigan even decided that it con-flicted with the Fourth Amendment (that’s the one about unlawful searches and seizures, for those who need a Bill of Rights refresher).
There’s another, much larger can of worms to open up 
here, however. 
If Florida can somehow legally dictate who gets wel-
fare assistance based on drug test results, why wouldn’t the government try to test for other public benefits? For 
instance, should a child be allowed to attend a school 
funded with tax money if his or her parent has a narcotics problem? Should taking a drug test be part of receiving state financial aid? 
Once again, with the tests funded by the subject, it 
would be beneficial for the state’s bottom line, but not for much else.
This proposal is one of the problems we’re seeing from 
running a state like a business. Drug addicts would be bet-
ter served by receiving therapy, and all welfare recipients 
could benefit from job counseling. Heck, they might even get off the taxpayers’ dime, but it’s a pipe dream for now. Our lawmakers aren’t about to cough up the money to stop the cycle of poverty while they cut everything else 
to shreds. 
We can only hope these proposals are reconsidered be-
fore they exacerbate an already alarming problem.Sobered Up
Welfare drug tests not 
beneficial for Florida
People should take more honest photos
Have you ever seen one of those photo montag-
es that show someone’s face holding the same angle and expression relentlessly, regardless of 
where and when the photo was taken? 
Yes, they creep me out too. It doesn’t matter if these people are going out 
somewhere or attending their little cousin’s birth-
day celebration, they pose identically for every photo.  
I don’t understand why people do this. 
They’re casting an illusion on their own life. They’re 
going to look back when they’re older and find their 
faces at the same angle in 80 percent of their photos. Al-
though, I suppose one could consider it a reflection of 
their personality – boring, flat, predictable and one-sided.  
I recall a time during my more awkward years when I would see photos posted on a certain ubiquitous online 
social network with all these people posing for a quick 
photo with their faces touching. 
I was not the debonair socialite I am now, and at the 
time these endless photos were nothing short of depress-ing for me to see. 
There I was, alone in my apartment, finished with my 
physics lab with the choice of laundry, online gaming or Internet lurking. 
As far as my digital eye could see, there was an 
ocean of images of people having a good time at some party I wasn’t invited to or didn’t know about. It made me feel terrible. But, I suppose these photos are tak-en as a display of how fun that particular event was.  
I’ll fast forward a bit: Now, I am attending these same 
parties. There was one in particular where I actively 
thought to myself, “Wow, this party is kind of lame, even for me.”To my complete chagrin, I fi-
nally witnessed the creation of these posed photos first-hand 
and wouldn’t you know it? They 
are completely contrived! They are fake moments in an 
unreal life. That party wasn’t that great. Yet, when that particular image is put on display, it looks just as exciting 
as all the other parties I once envied. 
So there they are, posing away so that years from 
now they can worship the false god of their youth.  
What can anyone do to combat this epidemic of self-cre-
ated, one-sided hieroglyph people? 
For starters, if you are the camera operator, you can 
take more candid photos. 
They’re more difficult to take well but also far more 
rewarding. You will be able to look back on a memory 
and remember it a little more accurately than you would 
otherwise. 
You will also have the opportunity to represent the 
same people in dynamic, interesting ways. Doing so also brings integrity to your photos because they become 
more believable and are given the opportunity to capture 
something unexpected. 
If candid photos are a documentary of your life, then 
the redundant, same-face pictures can be thought of as 
the reality TV version —  scripted, planned and full of 
posers. Except this particular show doesn’t have drug addicts and failed celebrities. 
It’s just plain and dull, despite the changing setting 
surrounding that same recycled expression. 
Say cheese! Wesley Campbell is a fifth-year English major. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.Wesley Campbell
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Religion can impede scientific progress
As a biochemistry student at UF, I found Zack Smith’s 
opinion column Monday disheartening. 
I’m all for critical thinking. 
Science is nothing without it, but millions of pieces of 
evidence overwhelmingly side with the theory of evolu-
tion. 
You might as well have students critically analyze the 
round-earth theory. 
That isn’t to say we understand every mechanism by 
which life changes, but injecting “God did it” into scien-tific study is not critical thinking. 
It has always been proven wrong and usually halts 
true scientific discovery. 
Funnily enough, two scientists that the writer men-
tioned in the column demonstrate this perfectly — Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein. 
Isaac Newton was convinced that God kept the solar 
system from flying apart, and Einstein refused to accept quantum physics because, as he put it, “God does not play dice.” 
In both cases, two of the greatest minds to ever live 
were wrong. 
In both cases, their contributions to physics stopped 
once they stopped critically thinking and “co-mingled their scientific and religious beliefs.” 
Galileo put it best: “I do not feel obliged to believe that 
the same God who has endowed us with sense, reason and intellect has intended us to forgo their use.” 
Doug Martin
UF studentLetter to the Editor
Over the weekend, the Japanese reeled from a 
massive earthquake, tsunami, nuclear melt-downs and radioactive iodine in their tap 
water.
Meanwhile, President Obama embarked on a 
“business trip.”
However, instead of landing in Japan on Satur -
day morning, Air Force One cruised into the warm, sunny capital of Brasilia, Brazil for a three-country, five-day Latin American vacation tour.
This spring break visit seems to be a family holi-
day as his wife, his daughters, the girls’ grandmoth-
er and their godmother are all in accompaniment.
The main goal of Obama’s trip to Latin America, 
according to the administration, is to enhance eco-
nomic partnerships and encourage job creation. 
But could this affair be taking place at a worse 
time?
Nothing of urgent importance has come out of 
this outing thus far. Before his arrival, the President canceled a planned press conference featuring him-
self and Brazilian President Dilma Vana Rousseff. 
The White House announced on Friday that Obama would make a statement in Brazil without enter -
taining questions from the press.
When a group of rowdy socialists carrying Amer -
ican flags that said “Go Home Obama” took to the streets in Rio de Janeiro on Friday, it was even more distressing to see Obama cancel his public speech, which was planned for Sunday.
Meanwhile in the Middle East, Muammar Gad-
hafi’s violent attacks on the Libyan people have gone on for far more than 30 days now. On Feb. 26, Obama called for Gadhafi to “leave now,” having lost the legitimacy to rule, yet it was a seem-ingly delayed, some-
what hesitant response 
to the rebellion against the dictator that began on 
Feb. 15.
While Obama endorsed the UN resolution of 
military action as well as airstrikes against the Gad-hafi regime, he gave the banal statement, “Today we are part of a broad coalition. We are answering the calls of a threatened people. And we are acting in the interests of the United States and the world.” 
Yet he publicly announced that the U.S. would not 
be introducing ground troops. 
Even if America did not plan to introduce the 
ground troops, shouldn’t Obama at least have kept 
Gadhafi guessing?
While CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer said Obama has 
taken a “backseat” in the Libya conflict, it is almost 
as if the president has been M.I.A. 
Under President Obama’s leadership, the United 
States has not been at the forefront of foreign policy. As a result, orders have been given from an organi-zation that is not taken seriously because of its lack of enforcement, aka the UN. Gadhafi’s breach of the 
ceasefire he agreed to shows the UN wields little 
real power.
Instead of holding fundraisers for his 2012 cam-
paign, golfing, filling out his basketball brackets and traveling to South America, Obama needs to 
get his priorities straight and realize that he is the 
Leader of the Free World.
Corina Cappabianca, Washington Square News, 
New York U. via UWIREObama needs to get priorities straightUWire
Corina Cappabianca
UWiren ABOUT 40 PEOPLE ATTENDED.
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite the economic malaise that has grabbed hold of 
everyday life, Gainesville is still a great place to call home, 
commission candidates from two separate races said at a 
forum Tuesday.
The forum, which was held at Santa Fe College and 
sponsored by the Leadership Gainesville Alumni Associa-tion, provided an opportunity for candidates, fresh off a preliminary election round, to present their takes on cur -
rent issues as well as their personal philosophies.
Speaking in front of a crowd of about 40 people, the can-
didates painted a picture of Gainesville as a community that people and families should want to settle in, not flee. 
District 3 candidate Susan Bottcher described the city 
as “a place where shopkeepers look you in the eye” and neighbors know your name. District 2 candidate and cur -
rent Commissioner Lauren Poe portrayed  Gainesville as a place where, despite rough economic times, things were coming together.  
Just how the city goes about doing that, however, is a 
matter of interpretation. Poe and Bottcher believe that the city, for the most part, is heading in the right direction. 
“We did something that no municipality or local gov-
ernment can claim; we lowered your taxes last year,” Poe 
said. 
Other candidates, such as Todd Chase and Rob Zeller, 
contending for seats in District 2 and 3 respectively, believe 
that a culture of government inefficiency and loads of red tape have hindered the city’s appeal to local businesses, a 
critical key, they believe, to the city’s growth. “I think serving the people has gotten lost,” Zeller said 
afterward. “I think government is serving themselves.”
Although they expressed their differences on numerous 
issues, notably the fire assessment fee and overall budget concerns, forum moderator Richard Drake remarked how 
each candidate could provide leadership if elected. 
“It’s about having a broader eye for the common good,” 
Bottcher said.8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator
Local business owner Kambiz Shirvani listens to the City Commission run-off candidates answer questions about 
Alachua County’s relationship with the local economy at a forum at Santa Fe College on Tuesday evening. 
Candidates express hopes, concerns for city at forumBy MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Driving home is unnerving for John 
Banks. County Road 231 is in such dis-
repair, he said, that he sometimes has to drive in the oncoming traffic lane to avoid the potholes.
“There are potholes after potholes,” 
he said. “When you drive it, you’re going bouncing and bumping all over the place.”
The Alachua County Commission voted 
Tuesday to repair that road and other roads that need fixing. Construction should begin in about six months, said Dave Cerlanek, county engineer.
The commission voted to take out an $11 
million loan, which will be borrowed in the form of bonds instead of a commercial loan, 
said Mark Sexton, the county communica-
tions director. The county will pay back the loan with money raised from county gas 
taxes.
The money will be used to fix County 
Road 231, Northwest 16th Avenue, South-
west 63rd Boulevard, Southwest 62nd Av-enue and the Gainesville Golf and Country Club.Commissioner Rodney Long said it is 
“ridiculous” that the county let County Road 231 get into such bad shape. His com-
ments were followed by applause from citi-
zens.
“There’s no way we can go another four 
years with that road as bad as it is,” he said.
Commissioners also voted to allow Ga-
torball Baseball Acad-
emy Inc., a private 
baseball-training or -
ganization, to manage 
activities at Jonesville Park’s two baseball fields for three years. In exchange, the or -
ganization will be able to charge teams for 
playing time and will collect money from 
sales at the concession stand.
Stephen Barton, owner of Gatorball 
Baseball Academy, said his organization 
will make sure the field is used. 
He said his organization will take care of 
scheduling times for teams to practice and 
play and will keep the infield clay tidy. The county will tend to the grass in the outfield 
and clean the restrooms once a day.
The commission said the public will still 
have access to the fields. Barton agreed. 
“We’re taking kids that have the dream 
of playing college baseball,” he said. “I’ve always wanted to give back to the game.”County Commission approves plan to repair roads
The county will use an $11 million loan to pay for it
Gainesville Cit yCommissionSTUDENT
LIVING
GUIDE
SPRING 20 11
BEDROOM
BATHROOMKITCHEN
LIVING ROOMDININGPATIO
LAUNDRYCLOSET
Partymunchie
storagehook-up
areabeer pong
station
football
zone
no 
man’s 
landhangover
recovery
stationnarnia2, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Off-Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.Getting StartedWhat is Off-Campus Life?
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Off Campus 
Life advocates for your rights in the community 
and provides support services and education to better your off-campus experience with the ultimate goal of helping you de-velop into a globally-conscious Gator.  OCL aims to provide programs and services that will prepare you to be a great Gator neighbor, here in Gainesville or wherever the road may take you.
The Ofﬁ  ce of Off Campus Life, 
which is part of UF’s Division of Student Affairs, has been providing support services and resources to UF students living off-campus since 2004.  
OCL’s support services and re-
sources include:
•Free Online Housing Locator 
Service: Students can ﬁ  nd off-campus housing, roommates, and information like rent, room size, location, etc. at this free online site.  Go to http://hous-ing.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu to use this resource.
•Gator Guide to Off Campus 
Life:  A free publication that 
provides tips and resources for ﬁ  nding the right apartment, bud-geting info, safety tips, keeping your electric costs low, a map of the city, and much more.  To get a copy of the Gator Guide, visit OCL’s ofﬁ  ce at 311 Peabody Hall or visit our website at www.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu. 
•Monthly Newsletter: OCL 
sends a monthly electronic newsletter to all 39,000+ off campus students.  Top-ics include safety information, monthly speciﬁ  c resources and opportunities, fun stuff, and much more.  If you would like to receive the OCL newsletter, visit the OCL website www.off-campus.uﬂ  .edu and click on the listserv link.
•Community Advocates:  Com-
munity Advocates is a student organization sponsored by OCL.  The purpose of Community Ad-vocates is to create a connec-tion between University of Flor-ida students, both on campus and in the Gainesville commu-nity, while educating them on municipal, cultural, social, and safety issues in a concise and centralized way.  Community Advocates hosts events such as Roommate Mixers (a social event where you can meet other people looking for roommates), Pet-a-Palooza (learning the ba-sics on being a pet-owner in Gainesville), and other events to help make your off-campus experience the best possible.  
•Monthly Lunch Series: OCL 
hosts a panel discussion on new topics every month while providing a free lunch to both panelists and audience mem-bers.
•Learn More:  Visit our web-
site www.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu for 
information about Off Campus Life resources and services.  Join our facebook group at fa-cebook.com/UF Off Campus Life. Or stop by the OCL ofﬁ  ce located in 311 Peabody Hall.Gainesville has a variety of off-campus housing including apart-
ments, condos, houses, and rooms for rent so take your time and shop around before signing a lease.  Enjoy your off-campus housing search and when looking for a place to live follow the tips below for ﬁ  nding the right place for you:
•Use the Off Campus Housing Locator Service at http://
housing.offcampus.uﬂ  .edu.
•Know your budget and choose a property that allows you to live within your means.•Create a priority list.  What do you care about most in a living space?  Room size, rent, type of lease, type of community (large undergrad population, graduate students, local residents, etc.), location, proximity to campus or bus route…all these things are factors to consider in choosing a place to live.  Write out a list of ideal characteristics you want in your future living space and keep these criteria in mind when selecting a location.•Choose a well-suited roommate or choose to live alone.  
Know what kind of person would best compliment your person-ality and choose accordingly.•Drive around  and visit the place and neighborhood you are 
looking to live in.  •Take a tour of the complexes or houses that interest you, ask questions, and get to know the complex management or rental house landlord.•Ask your friends for advice on where to live.  Which proper-ties worked well for them?  Which didn’t?•Check with local Law Enforcement  for crime statistics by go-
ing to GPD’s website at www.gainesvillepd.org and clicking on “Crime Reports” on the right hand side of the page.  Enter the address you’re interested in and all reported crime incidents will appear on the map.  
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTIONWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 3
 SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTIONWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 5
 SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION6, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Off-Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.BudgetsTenant’s Rights
INTRODUCTION
Florida’s Residential Landlord 
and Tenant Act, Sections 83.40 to 83.682, Florida Statutes (2007), is referred to as “the Act” in this publication. Most libraries have copies of Florida Statutes if more speciﬁ  c information is needed.
Florida Statues are also avail-
able online through the Florida Legislature’s website, (www.leg.state.ﬂ  .us). Explanations of the Act have statewide applicabil-ity, but any speciﬁ  c references to Gainesville or Alachua County applies only to those areas.
The rental of mobile homes or mobile home lots is not covered 
in the Act. If you have a problem in this area, you should contact an attorney.
CAVEAT
This is an educational tool and not a guide for the practice of law. Once a problem has been identiﬁ  ed, an attorney must be contacted to obtain speciﬁ  c ad-vice.
Full time University of Florida stu-
dents can receive free legal advice from Student Legal Services. The ofﬁ  ce is located at 368 J Wayne Reitz Union.  Call 392-5297 for further information.If you are not a full time student, contact the Florida Bar Lawyer Referral Service at 800-342-8011. They can give you a list of attorneys who can represent you for a lowered fee.
Law is subject to change. All ma-
terial is correct as of June 2007.
DISCLAIMER
This original publication was writ-ten by Student Legal Services at-torneys.     Opinions expressed do not necessarily reﬂ  ect those of the University of Florida, Student Government, the Board of Trust-ees, or the State of Florida.
You can’t ﬁ  nd the right place to live until you know how much you are able to spend.  Here are some budget questions you should think about while touring a prop-
erty:
1. What is the monthly rent? Deposit? Application fee?  2. What’s included in that rent?  Utilities, gas, water, cable, 
internet?
3. What’s not included in rent?  What is the average monthly 
cost for gas, electric, water, garbage disposal?  If manage-ment doesn’t know, contact GRU at www.gru.com and they can give you average costs of utilities for the previous year.
4. Want to have a pet?  Factor in the deposit, monthly pet 
fee and monthly cost for food, medical, and grooming care.
5. Don’t forget the insurance.  Before you sign your lease, 
call your insurance company and see how much it will cost monthly to insure your apartment or house.
6. Are you going to need fuel for your vehicle, parking decal, 
or are you going to use the bus?  Factor in transportation/ car maintenance costs to your budget.
7. How much will you spend monthly on groceries or on a 
meal plan?
8. Have some fun!  Don’t spend so much on rent that you 
don’t have money for leisure time.
9. What do you spend on clothing, shoes, and accesso-
ries? 
10. How much money can you save every month?  It’s really 
good to save some money every month to cover unexpected emergency expenses.  Even $20 a month saved is good.  Every little bit counts.
To help you with your budget, OCL has a budget spreadsheet 
in the Gator Guide that can be found online at www.offcam-pus.uﬂ  .edu or stop by Off Campus Life we are located in 311 Peabody to pick up a copy of our annual publication. 
Your living environment plays a major factor in your overall 
happiness level.  Know what you want to get out of your living space and choose your location and roommate(s) ac-cordingly.  Gainesville is home now so let Off Campus Life help you get the most out of your off-campus experience.How Do I Find an Apartment?
Check with the ofﬁ  ce of Off-Campus Life at 352 392 1261 x 214 or their website at http://www.dso.uﬂ  .
edu/offcampus for assistance.     
Rental opportunities may also be found in the classiﬁ  ed sections of The Gainesville Sun, The Independent 
Florida Alligator, and bulletin boards around campus.
IMPORTANT PHONE NUMBERS:
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTIONWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 7
 SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION8, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Off-Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.What Should I 
Look for in an 
Apartment?What Should I Do Before Signing?
Application Deposits: Never put down a deposit to hold an apartment unless 
you have a written agreement indicating whether it is refundable.
Model Apartments: Never sign a lease based upon a model. Insist on seeing 
your actual apartment.
Cost: Can you afford it? Even if your roommates leave?Safety: Inspect the locks on the doors and windows – is there a deadbolt on 
the front door? Do sliding glass doors have adequate locks to deter forced entry? Are the hallways and parking lots well lit? Make sure tree limbs and shrubs in front of the apartment are well trimmed. You can contact the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce or the Gainesville Police Department for information on crime in the area.
Function: At move-in, check all plumbing and appliances. Run water in sinks, 
showers and tubs, ﬂ  ush toilets, and check air conditioning and heating. 
Inventory: Note all defects on the inventory sheet or check-in list signed by 
the landlord or an impartial witness. Photograph or videotape the apartment at movie-in.
Appearance: Is it clean? Do the carpets look worn or smell bad? Has the 
apartment been painted recently? Do the walls have nail holes? 
In some Gainesville neighborhoods, only three unrelated persons may live to-
gether. Check with the city if you plan on having more than two roommates.
Retain a copy of the lease and all attachments or addendums to the lease 
for your records. Have all promised repairs and improvements written into the lease and signed by the landlord.
Get clear written permission for any pets.DO
•Read the lease and make sure you under-
stand it.•Review a copy of the lease with an attorney prior to signing it.•Expect to pay full rent, not just your share. This is what “joint and several” liability means, a term included or implied in nearly all leases. •Obtain a copy of the lease and all attach-ments or addendums to the lease, and put everything with your personal records.•Have all promised repairs and improvements written into the lease and signed by the land-lord.•Insist on seeing your actual unit.•Get clear written permission for any pets.•Check for maintenance responsibilities when renting a house or duplex.DON’T
•Do not sign a 12-month lease unless you are willing to pay rent for 12 months.•Do not sign a 12-month lease with room-mates unless all roommates are willing to ay rent for 12 months.•Do not have your parents signed the lease or a parental guarantee agreeing to be responsi-ble for rent, if possible. See if the landlord will accept an additional security deposit instead.•Do not sign a lease with automatic renewal clause.•Do not sign a lease that gives the landlord unlimited access to the apartment without no-tice or consent.•Do not sign a lease based upon a model.•Do not sign a lease before visiting the neigh-borhood.
	  
SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTIONWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 9 SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 13
 SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTIONWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR, 15
 SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION16, ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
Information provided by and reprinted with permission from UF Student Legal Services and UF’s Office of Off-Campus Life, but is not intended to be a substitute for legal advice.Getting Out
Can I Break My Lease Because…
I am graduating?   
No!
My roommate left?    
No!
I cannot afford the rent?   
No!
I need to work this summer?  
No!
The neighborhood is unsafe?  
No!
Under the Act, you can only terminate 
the lease if the landlord is materially vio-lating your lease or the Act. You should obtain legal advice before attempting to terminate your lease. In many cases, the best thing you can do is find replace -
ment tenants.
Can I Sublet My Apartment?
Usually. The landlord cannot unreason-ably withhold consent to an assignment or sublease. The landlord may require potential replacement tenants to submit an application including a credit check. The landlord may also charge a reason-able sublet fee even when you provide the replacement tenants. Normally you remain liable under your lease if the replacement tenants do not pay rent or damage the apartment. Some landlords will release you from the obligations of your lease. If you are being released, get it in writing.
Can I Just Move Out and Forfeit My 
Security Deposit?
No. Some tenants will walk out on a lease and receive no adverse action, while oth-ers will be pursued to the fullest extent of the law.  In Gainesville’s current rent-al market, the odds are that you will be sued unless you supply acceptable re -
placement tenants. 
Your losses in court will not be limited 
to your security deposit, but will include rent for each month the apartment re -
mains vacant during the term of your lease, plus court costs and the landlord’s attorney’s fees.SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTIONClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDA Y, MARCH 23, 2011
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
THE LANDINGS.
2/2.5 Townhomes
3/3 & 4/4 Flats
Call us at 352-336-3838!
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.
Avail. 8/15
$900/mo. call 877-833-2865   3-25-11-10-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Furnished 4bedroom4bath condo,W/D/
Dishwasher for 2011-2012 starting Aug16 1/2mi from UF on bus route, 3800 SW 20th Ave between UF and Butler Plaza $325/mo ++ per student 352-586-6468   3-29-11-10-1
Great 4/4 condo available immediately less 
than 5 miles from Campus. Washer/Dryer, balcony, in gated building. Furnished or not depending. On bus routes 9 & 35. Call 813-368-5325 for viewing or details. $350/month   3-25-5-1
**379/mo.** ONE BEDROOM (FEMALE) IN LEXINGTON CROSSING FOR SUMMER (MAY-JULY).3 BUS ROUTES. UTILITIES INCLUDED, ALL INCLUSIVE. 4/4- GREAT SUITE-MATES!! Contact:adav21@gmail.com -- 727-331-3762    3-24-4-11/1 in 3/3 windsor prk-sublease,
incl util/cable/internet $350 furnished 
9542241542 coltmaverick@ufl.edu   3-29-11-7-1
REDUCED RENT FOR QUALIFIED 
INDIVIDUAL WILLING TO SHOW APTS. 
IN QUADPLEX. NEWLY REHABBED & 
FURNISHED 2 BDRM w/W/D. ENTAILS 
MINOR DUTIES. NORMALLY RENTS $735/
MO. CALL 727-423-9463    4-8-11-13-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING!!
SPACIOUS 1050 Sqft 2BDR
ONLY $299/BED
www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
4-20-11-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
26, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
4-20-10-70-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.No move in fees and $500 off March!Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         4-20-66-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    4-7-11-50-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
www.10houses.com
2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1
Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areas
Bike to UF
352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    
3-25-11-22-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
3BR/2BA, 1940sq.ft. Quiet neighborhood. 
1.5 miles from U.F. Large fenced yard, wood floors, 2 car garage, and sun room. Available 5/1. $1100/month. 3936 SW 3rd Ave. 352-359-1270    3-25-11-15-2
1BR/1BA, 5 blocks from Shands & UF. Quiet 
complex, parking, walk-in closet, W/D. $550/mo. Call 317-2642 or 371-9520    3-23-11-10-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts3 BLKS TO UF & Downtown!840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms, Plenty ofParking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UFNew Carpet $450/Mo $600 DepositWindow A/C, Nat Gas Ht.216 SW 12th Street.
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UFCentral H & Air, LaundryOn site. $500/Mo1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit3-31-11-15-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, W/D included, furnished common area. 352.514.3398.    3-31-15-2
*March Madness!*
Luxury 2/2s for Fall
College Park--across from UF!
Starting @ $550/room
Sign w/in 48 hrs, Waive leasing fee!
352-371-7777
3-31-11-13-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     3-29-11-11-21700 sq ft 3BR/2BA House
Wood floors, large screened-in back porch, 
jacuzzi, W/D, corner lot $1400/mo Call  (352) 
258-9116 to see. Available Aug 1st.
4-5-11-15-2
HUGE 1 BR apt for quiet mature person 
Dine-in kitchen, carport space, large
enclosed patio, utilities - cable - internet
included, no pets. $750 2046 NW 14th Ave
395-6250 or 332-1429 Kathy    3-29-11-10-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1325 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/air
Avail. Aug 1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-7346
4-20-11-26-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
3-29-10-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com4-20-10-26-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-30-11-10-2
3bedroom $509
Amazing townhome with everything included! 
Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/
dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-
2801   4-20-25-2
3bedroom $509
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2
Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-24-25
UF 7 blks, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters, POOL, HOT 
TUB, 2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park, responsible 
students or professionals only.  Plasma TV 
incl. May-Aug $1775/mo; $2375/mo Aug on. 
Summer only option or yr lease. 352-222-0211
3-23-11-5-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwasher, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   5-12-11-26-2
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 27
★Walk to UF★
2,3,4,5 bedrooms Avail Aug
walk2uf.com
4-20-24-2
********4 BLKS to UF/Historic House*******
Cute, charming 3 bd/2 bth house, hrdwood, 
tile, central AC, off street parking, W/D, patio, 
small pets OK, $1350/mth, avail Aug 1102 
NW 4th Ave, call 828.216.2565    3-24-5-2
OPEN HOUSE!
Free Food! Reduced Rates @ $275
Save up to $600! One Day Only!
Thursday March 24th from 4pm-6pm
Bivens Cove: 352-376-2507
3-24-11-4-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com   
4-1-11-10-2
Two blocks from UF Stadium 
3 Bed 1 Bath, 1 Bed 1 Bath, 
and Studio. Available Summer and/or Fall
352-377-2930        4-1-11-10-2Magnolia Place 2br 2.5 bath Condo. 
Hardwood floors, granite counter top, like 
new.
Brand new washer/dryer and dishwasher in 
unit. Pool, clubhouse, tennis court. 
$899/month. Call 352 378 2548.    3-25-11-
5-2
HOUSE 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area 2BR $850, cent 
AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty 
of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 352-665-
8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
HOUSE 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area 3BR/2BA $1335, 
cent AC/heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets may-
be, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 
352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
HOUSE 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area HUGE 4BR/2BA 
dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, $2350, parking! 
Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg   
5-12-11-25-2
HOUSES 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area. Large 4BR/2BA, 
w/dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, 
plenty of parking! $1980. Avail Aug 16th - 1 
yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2SPRING SPECIAL!
Quiet 1bd 1ba 827sq ft loft.
SW G'ville on RTS 10 min on freeway from 
SFC
Just renovatd. swim pool, exercise room.
$425mo call 472-6491 or 474-0841    4-1-
11-10-2
3BR/3BA House, fenced yard, close to UF, 
open floor plan/cathedral ceilings, new tile, 
carpet, fixtures. W/D, lawn, and pest control 
incl. Small pets allowed, avail Aug, $1350/
month. 352-246-5958, tonyc@kinetixpt.com    
4-8-11-15-2
SAVE SOME GREEN! Fall specials
3 BR 1 mile to UF. $895 for WHOLE apt!
W/D, H2O, sewer, gas incld.
Sign by April 1st to get this AWESOME deal
2700 SW Archer Rd 373-2700    4-1-9-2
●Close to UF, 2BR house, W/D, water incl $895
●1BR apt, yard, $450
●Walk to UF, large 4BR house, parking, 
hardwood, W/D $1150
Call 561-703-8490                   3-28-11-5-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1225 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2
3br/3ba Townhouse, UNLIMITED water, 
washer & dryer, pool and some furniture 
avail. GREAT LOCATION to UF/Shands/Vet. 
Move in today for $850/month or July/August 
for $1,000/month. Call 727-244-4854.   3-23-
11-1-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   4-20-11-21-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    4-20-11-21-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
After Spring Break,
there are less than 6 weeks 
left in the semester!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-30-3
Summer Sublease May-July $350/month includes utilities @ Gainesville Place Apartments 1/1 in a 4/4 42” plasma tv! Fully furnished (washer/dryer included)bbermudez@ufl.edu    3-29-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Roommate wanted
New 2/2.5 Fully Furnished except for bed-
room in Grantwood Condominiums 2.5 miles 
from UF
$550/month includes utilites & WiFi
Contact Kourtney 352-422-1448    3-25-10-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.
3-29-10-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-726-2915    4-5-11-15-4
HANDYMAN SPECIAL Share 2BR/2BA MH 
in Hidden Oaks. Furn rm incl elec, ph, cable, 
internet. Close to UF, bus, shopping. $200 
NR dep. $400/mo. NS, NA, ND. Handyman 
can work off most. Caged pets ok. 331-0762    
3-29-10-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 poolside condo at Countryside. Easy com-
mute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, 
W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. Text 850 585 4405, 386 676 9703, nukken1@aol.com 3-31-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Directbus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-682-9412    5-30-7-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
3br/3ba Townhouse~SPACIOUS & GREAT LOCATION to UF/Shands/Vet. Clean and in great condition. Washer & dryer, pool and some furniture. Student & Family friendly! STEAL $110,000. Call 727-244-4854.  3-23-11-1-5BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
Furniture for sale-Like New. Reasonable!
UF Student Graduating. Queen Bed, Triple
Dresser & Chest, 2 Night Stands, Liv.
Room-Sofa, Love Seat, Desk Workstation
& Leather Chair, TV Stand, Cocktail Table.
$1,500 call 954-275-4008
3-31-11-10-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
28, ALLIGATOR  n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
3-31-10-38-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESCertified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...
Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!
Call Gary at 352-682-8838,
email dlimotors@yahoo.com or
stop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-
12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      3-25-11-70-13 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   4-20-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village 
is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a 
Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full 
time Life Coach positions available in both 
Independent and Assisted Living. Come 
and be a part of our growing team! These 
positions play a support role in planning, or-
ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-
ment program that promotes total health and 
wellness of each resident living here at The 
Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-
ence conducting group programs with strong interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-
sion for working with older adults is a must. In 
addition to experience with social programs, 
individuals with a theology background and/or 
fitness experience are encouraged to apply. 
please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     
5-17-11-27-14
PROPERTY MANAGER
PT - Friendly, energetic person.
Requires good communication skills,
sales &/or mgmt. exp. & computer
knowledge. Great benefits. Must be
avail. wknds. Apply in person CMC
2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B DFWP
4-20-11-24-14
LEASING AGENT PT
Friendly, energetic person. 20-30 hrs./wk.
Exp. preferred. Hourly & bonus. Must be
avail. wknds. Apply in person CMC
2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B  DFWP
4-20-11-24-14Lifeguard-Certification Required
$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.
State Mental Hlth Treatment Fac
Call Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-
18-14
The Village, an upscale retirement commu-
nity, is seeking a full-time Nurse Manager. 
The ideal candidate will have the following 
skills / experience:
- Current and valid license in the State of 
Florida as an RN
- Experience with Memory Support
- One to three years experience in a geriatric 
setting
- One to three years management experi -
ence
- Excellent interpersonal skills
-Please see www.thevillageonline.com/jobs 
for more information!      3-28-11-14-14
Love writing? Looking for writers for origi-
nal articles & product descriptions for 
multiple IT websites. Earn up to $150-$300/
wk from your location. Must have excellent 
grammar & writing skills. 626-602-5254
4-12-11-20-14
Remedy Staffing now offers Free Video 
Resumes. Add to you Facebook profile, 
Linkedin and many other social sites.
Call 672.6080 x-3 or email
stephenw@remedystaff.com to schedule.
4-12-11-20-4
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, 
salary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 
352-371-4000.                       3-31-11-12-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    3-29-11-10-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
PT NANNY needed M-F start by MAR 28;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk; travel w/ mom;3yr old / 10 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    3-23-11-5-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-11-30-14
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 29
Child Care Director - Part time
1+ year experience with school age children
Strong leadership & communication skills
Sundays 9am-noon. $13-$15/hr, DOE
Must be CPR & first aid certified
Apply in person: M-F 8am-4pm
United Church of Gainesville
1624 NW 5th Avenue
www.ucgainesville.org
4-1-11-11-14
MOTHER'S HELPER FOR 5 AND 7 YR OLD.
M-F 2:30-5:30. Student of sp. needs with exp
pref. Loving, good driver, reliable car must.
Good pay + std mileage. Send resume and
references to alligatornanny@gmail.com
3-24-11-5-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
 Summer Camp, Aquatics, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning/Maint., Drivers.
Applications at www.suncountrysports.com.
Email HR@suncountrysports.com for info.
Camp interviews begin 3/22!
3-24-11-5-14
SMOKERS NEEDED
...to participate in a study assessing the 
effects of various activities on smoking. 
Compensation will be provided! If inter-
ested, call 336-406-3706 or email us at 
uflsmokelab@gmail.comv    3-28-7-14
WAITPERSON
Experienced, full service. Evenings & weekends. Apply in person 3-5pm, NAPOLATANO'S, 606 NW 75th St.    3-23-11-4-14Women ages 35-50 needed for research par-
ticipation in a perceived age study. Involves 
2-3 hours of voice recording in a lab setting. 
Paid $15/an hour. For more information, con-
tact spl.ufl@gmail.com.    3-25-11-5-14
Social Marketers. Looking for freelance so-
cial marketers to get the word out about a 
new, local business. Email
david@thedestinationguide.com for details.   
3-23-3-14
WEB DEVELOPER
part time, Dreamhost environment. On-call 
troubleshooting and update. One page re-sume to: mog@digistrat.com   3-29-11-5-14
CJ's NOW HIRING
EXPERIENCED SERVERS, BARTENDER, 
KITCHEN MANAGER (bring CV).
Please apply in person 3501 SW 2nd Ave. 
CalicoJacks.net, 352-371-1675,   3-30-11-
5-14
SPANISH TRANSLATOR
Gleim Publications is looking for candidates 
that can translate accounting material from 
English to Spanish. Must be native Spanish 
speaker who spent formative years and high 
school in their native country. Four year ac-
counting degree.
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.   4-5-11-
10-14TECH SUPPORT
LINUX ADMIN
SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.  4-5-11-
10-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696
3-31-20-15
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
ARC Lifeguard TrainingStarts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
CPR training is back!
Need CPR/AED or 1st Aid?Meets internship requirementsFloridaHeartsaver.org(352)575-0119                        4-8-20-16
Internal Medicine doctors at the University of Florida are currently looking for people with poorly controlled Type 2 (adult onset) diabetes who may also have low Vitamin D level for a clinical study. The study will look at the effect of Vitamin D replacement on im-proving your diabetes control. Study-related medical care and monetary compensa -
tion may be provided for your time. Please contact Karen Brezner at     352-273-8661.                        3-30-11-11-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.com
then call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, Natz, H1B Visas
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
(904) 425-8078
4-4-14-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Tired of hollow hook-ups?
Fed up with being fat?
Sick of shallow sex?
Longing for love? .  .  .
Want to talk about it?
Maintain anonymity - radio
Talk LIVE with doctorberry
Call toll free 855.372.3779
Saturday’s 9 pm-midnight EST
3-25-11-5-19
Mature artist looking for attractive, with sense 
of humor, lady to share my 4BR apt and help 
me rearrange things and shop to make a 
comforable home for the two of us. I will pay 
all the bills so you won't need money - but I 
don't drive and we need a car which I will pay 
for. Object, fun living and who knows. Call 
Bob 352-226-8449    3-28-5-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Casting call for feature film: The Best Western Gateway Grand at the Northwest quadrant of the intersection of I-75 and exit 390. April 2nd, 9am - 4pm. Please visitwww.SwampTales.us for more information.4-1-11-13-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42x
Any info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
Sports ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org 
 
It was a game of batting practice for 
the top-ranked Gators. 
Behind 24 hits, two solo shots and 
two grand slams, No. 1 Florida (19-2, 
3-0 Southeastern Conference) pounded Winthrop (9-10, 2-1 Big South) 22-5 on Tuesday night in McKethan Stadium. 
UF extended its winning streak to 
nine games as every starter recorded at least one hit. Infielders Josh Adams and Nolan Fontana led the way, com-bining for six knocks, two bombs and eight RBIs.
“Hitting is contagious,” Adams 
said. “It was just one of those days that everybody was seeing the ball well and putting good swings on it. Our BP defi-
nitely translated into the game today.” 
Fontana drilled 
his first career grand slam and drove in a career-high six runs. And Adams had a 
3-for-3 day with a homer of his own, his second straight game with a round-tripper.
“We had a lot of hitter’s counts, and 
POLL QUESTION DONOVAN MAKES ALL-DISTRICT COACHES LIST ONLINE
n Check out our website for all our latest stories, 
podcasts, video shows and Twitter updates to stay up 
to speed on the Gators’ NCAA Tournament chances. Also keep an eye on our NCAA Tournament bracket challenge as the Sweet 16 approaches.n Florida coach Billy Donovan was named to the Na -
tional Association of Basketball Coaches 2011 Division I All-District Coaches on Tuesday. Donovan has a 359-146 record at UF, giving him the second-highest winning per -
centage (.711) in league history behind Adolph Rupp.Today’s question: Where will the Florida men’s bas -
ketball team’s NCAA Tournament run end?Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida senior forward Alex Tyus is putting up career lows in points and rebounds this season, but he has recently ratcheted up his aggressiveness in his final year, grabbing 19 boards in two games last week.
n THE SENIOR HAD 19 
BOARDS LAST WEEK.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
After an up-and-down sea-
son, Alex Tyus is focused on 
ending his career in style. 
The senior is averaging his 
fewest points and rebounds per game since his freshman sea-son, but he has raised his inten-sity over the past week for one simple reason. 
“NCAA Tournament,” Tyus 
said Saturday . “Really excited to be here, really excited to help the team win.”
Florida’s forward is pursu-
ing his final shot at a national title, a journey that will re-sume Thursday in the Sweet 16 against BYU. 
Tyus has bought into the 
idea that every possession is critical, as his next loss will be his last, and the result has been 
an increased level of tenacity on 
the court. 
“He’s just been coming with 
energy,” senior forward Chan-dler Parsons said. “I don’t think he’s worried about scoring or doing anything like that. I think he’s just playing hard.”
Tyus averaged 5.5 boards 
per game before the NCAA Tournament but has recorded 19 in the two contests since Tournament play began. 
Although his scoring num-
bers have hovered just below his season average, Tyus has 
been able to contribute in other 
ways. 
“Because of his athleticism, 
he can have an impact on the game regardless of if he gets the ball,” UF coach Billy Donovan said. “When he plays with that kind of motor, he’s really a hard guy to block out.”
The Gators have especially 
valued Tyus’ contributions on the defensive end, where he has had the tall order of match-ing up against players like Ter -
rence Jones of Kentucky, JaMy-chal Green of Alabama, Tobias Harris of Tennessee and Trey Thompkins of Georgia. 
Each of those players ranks 
in the top 10 in the Southeastern Conference in scoring. 
“I have an enormous amount 
of respect for Alex,” Donovan said. “He has been all about the team. He has been all about winning.”
Instead of focusing on his of-
fense, Tyus has accepted his role as a defender and rebounder. 
After ranking second on the 
team in shots as a sophomore and fourth as a junior, Tyus has slid into his role as the team’s fifth-leading shooter and scorer this season. 
Donovan said Tyus, like Al Tyus stepping up intensity in final Tournament run
UF’s rout unimportant in big picture
The Gators baseball team might have 
used up all of their runs for the week.
If you were paying attention (and 
judging by the attendance, you weren’t), Florida embarrassed Winthrop on Tuesday night. UF set season highs in runs and hits (24) as it cruised to a 22-5 victory at home. 
Austin Maddox kick-started the party 
and flashed his 6.4 40-yard dash speed, when an error turned his first-inning single into an inside-the-park home run. Nolan Fontana, Brian Johnson, Mike Zunino and Josh Adams joined in with legit home runs. Even pitcher Tommy Toledo was seen taking practice cuts on deck in the eighth inning.
If you like the Gators, or are just passion-
ate about watching poor kids get picked on, Tuesday night was a lot of fun. But the only thing we learned watching the game is that Winthrop sucks. If the Gators are going to reach Omaha again this year, they won’t be punching tickets with their bats.
I’m not talking 
about Florida being able to post 20-run performances. That simply doesn’t happen in baseball. 
Duh. I get it.  
To quote Fontana: “We put up 22 runs in 
eight innings. That helps win ball games, I guess.”
I’m talking about being an offensive-
minded team, in any fashion. If Florida con-tends for a national title, which everyone thinks it will, it will have little to do with its performance at the plate.
In last weekend’s three-game sweep of 
LSU, UF scored a combined 13 runs. SEE HOOPS, PAGE 32
SEE TYLER, PAGE 32
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @iam_tyler
BaseballGators throttle Eaglesn THE WIDEOUT IS HOPING 
TO SHOW HIS IMPROVED WORK ETHIC THIS SPRING.
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
 
Will Muschamp isn’t a fan of the 
word “potential.”
That’s why the Florida coach is 
being cautious with his praise for 
wide receiver Andre Debose, de-
spite his seemingly limitless physi-cal gifts.
Debose, a highly touted prospect 
often compared to former Gators receiver Percy Harvin during his re-cruitment, had a limited role in Flori-da’s offense last year, recording only 105 total yards and no touchdowns 
on 10 receptions and one carry . 
“He has to continue to progress 
to be the football player he needs 
to be,” Muschamp said. “God has blessed him with an awful lot of ability , but he has got to use that ability.”
The 5-foot-11, 180-pound sopho-
more didn’t see much time on the 
field due to trouble learning the 
playbook, and he received a great deal of criticism for having a poor work ethic as the year went on. 
But he and Muschamp are hop-
ing to rectify those problems this season and turn Debose’s potential into production.
“My main focus right now is just 
to show that I have a good work ethic,” Debose said last week. “I just want to show everybody that I do 
work hard and I want to be on the 
field every snap that I can.”
Debose displayed his athletic 
ability on special teams, averaging 28 yards per kickoff return and be-coming the first Gator to score two kick-return touchdowns in one sea-son. 
Muschamp said Tuesday he is 
pleased with Debose’s athleticism during offseason training, and he hopes that carries over into the fall.
“It’s just about being a consistent 
worker all the time,” Muschamp said. “Consistency in his perfor -
mance is what I’m stressing on. 
“But athletically , he is what we 
want at the wideout position.”
BURTON, BRANTLEY ADJUSTING 
WELL:  Muschamp said every player 
on Florida’s roster has essentially become a freshman again while learning the Gators’ new system, but quarterback John Brantley and running back Trey Burton are standing out.
Muschamp said Brantley has 
been the most consistent of UF’s three quarterbacks so far, if only be-cause of his experience at the posi-tion. 
Burton, a converted quarterback who played all over the field last season, will likely see time in the 
backfield and at tight end this year. 
But the versatile Burton is quickly acclimating to his new role under offensive coordinator Charlie Weis.
“Charlie’s using him in a lot of 
different ways. He fits well with what we do,” Muschamp said. “He’s a smart, productive football player.”
INJURY UPDATE: Muschamp 
said senior defensive tackle Jaye 
Howard underwent arthroscopic surgery Monday to “clean up some 
things in his ankle that have been 
an issue for the last couple months.” There is no timetable set for How-ard’s return.
Junior defensive tackle Earl Okine 
was held out Tuesday for precau-tionary reasons related to a medical procedure. Otherwise, Muschamp said, there have been no major in-juries through the first week of the Gators’ spring practice schedule.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 31
Special to the Alligator
Florida sophomore wide receiver Andre Debose is looking to shed criticism about his work ethic during 
the Gators’ spring season. Debose’s unmatched athletic potential has yet to show on offense for UF.
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
Although Fairfield isn’t the most highly touted team on 
Florida’s schedule, tonight’s matchup against the unranked 
Stags will still be the Gators’ tallest test.
With eight players over 5-foot-9, including three who are 
5-foot-11 or taller, Fairfield has a height advantage over every 
team No. 9 Florida (8-1) will play this year. The Stags (5-3) will 
try to use this edge to key an upset tonight at 6:30 in Dizney Stadium. 
By contrast, Florida’s two tallest players, freshman Kelsey 
Dlugos and sophomore Natalie Melaniff, are 5-foot-9.
“Fairfield does a great job in spreading out defenses,” UF 
coach Amanda O’Leary said. “It’s exactly what Syracuse did to us on Saturday — they spread our defenders out — so we’re going to have to come in with a simpler game plan.”
All of the Stags’ towering athletes play either midfield or attacking positions. Led by 5-foot-10 sophomore Chloe Man-
gan’s 17 goals, the group accounts for 51 percent of Fairfield’s 
offense with 42 goals and 23 assists.
While the Stags have been able to use their size as an advan-
tage against other teams, Florida midfielder Sam Farrell isn’t shying away from the task of guarding taller players. Instead, the 5-foot-8 sophomore said she thrives in it.
“Personally , I like playing taller people, 
since I’m taller,” Farrell said. “I feel like the shorter people are a lot harder to defend. But 
overall, we’re just going to have to practice 
holding our bodies and holding our space and not letting people go through us.”
Fairfield’s offense is diverse like Florida’s, but not as prolific. 
The Stags have six players with double-digit goals this season, though none have reached the 20-goal mark like Florida’s Kitty Cullen (39 goals), Ashley Bruns (26) and Brittany Dashiell (23).
Part of this is due to Fairfield having to adjust to life without 5-foot-11 senior Kristen Coleman, the school record holder in goals, assists and points, who went down in a preseason prac-tice with a season-ending leg injury.
The Gators have recently shown the importance of having 
multiple scorers who can take over a game. When Cullen was limited by Syracuse’s defense in a 16-11 win on March 19, Bruns was able to come through for Florida with a seven-point per -
formance, earning her WomensLax.com National and Ameri-can Lacrosse Conference Offensive Player of the Week honors.
“More than us being marked up on a specific girl, we’re go-
ing to have to know their entire team offense, and we’re going to have to play more of a team defense in order to stop them,” sophomore defender Emily Dohony said.
Along with the lack of an individual scoring threat, the 
Stags have been limited by turnovers. Through eight games, they have 120 giveaways, 31 more than the Gators have com-
mitted in nine games.
“Definitely in the ride, when they’re carrying the ball up the 
field, we’ll pressure them all over,” Farrell said. “If they aren’t 
as good with the ball, that’ll help us a lot with getting posses-sion.”Fairfield’s height presents unique challenge for UFDebose seeking 
consistency in ‘11
LacrosseGators to take on Stags tonight in Dizney StadiumEntering Tuesday’s game, the Gators ranked 
26th nationally in batting average (.315) and only 
75th in runs scored (123). 
Translation: Florida does a fine job getting on 
base, but don’t expect the Gators to come through in high-pressure situations.
Except on Tuesday, when players kept say-
ing the ball looked like a beach ball. That’s what happens when one of the most talented teams in the nation plays against a 9-10 squad from the Big South Conference. But Florida isn’t seeking a Big South Championship. The Gators want an SEC crown, and they want to make another College 
World Series appearance.
If they do make it back to Omaha — and trust 
me, they are good enough — they won’t be put-
ting up any 20 spots. Heck, I would be surprised 
if they reached double-digits in today’s rematch 
with Winthrop. Florida’s offense isn’t nearly as good as it 
looked Tuesday. And you know what? That’s OK. It doesn’t need to be. The Gators are averag-
ing almost the same amount of runs as they were 
last season, and that team was one of the nation’s best.
And like last year, this team revolves around 
its pitching staff. Florida features 12 players who 
were ranked among the top-100 high school pros-
pects. Eight of them were pitchers. The Gators rank seventh in the SEC in runs scored, but they led the conference with an ERA of 2.29 before Tuesday. 
The school record is 2.20, set back in 1968.
If you want to know what this team will look 
like come May and June, when it matters most, 
don’t go to McKethan Stadium tonight. Wait until this weekend, when Florida trots out its 
aces against South Carolina. You will be lucky if 
Florida scores 22 for the whole weekend, and the 
Gators will probably still win the series.
That is, of course, if they haven’t exhausted 
their bats.32, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2011
Boynton’s sprained ankle ‘a lot better’
Horford, Joakim Noah and Corey 
Brewer on UF’s back-to-back na-tional championship teams, has realized that putting up big scor -
ing numbers is not necessarily the 
best thing for Florida. 
“He could score those points, 
but I’m not so sure our team would 
be where it could be,” Donovan said. “I do have confidence that on any given night Alex could get 20 points, and that may happen. But we do need his energy , we do need his rebounding and we 
do need his defense. … When he does that, it really adds a dimen-
sion to our frontcourt.”
Parsons entered the season in 
a similar posi-tion, looking to expand his role on the way 
to a champi-
onship, but he quickly learned 
he would have to temper his per -
sonal expectations for the good of the team.
Parsons has no doubt Tyus 
feels the same way . 
“If he thought he had to, he 
100 percent would,” Parsons said. “That guy is all about the team, and I think he just wants to win and he wants to win a champion-ship before he goes.”
INJURY UPDATE: Kenny Boynton 
is still recovering after spraining his left ankle Saturday against 
UCLA. 
Parsons said Boynton is “get-
ting a lot better,” and the sopho-
more guard’s commitment to returning by Thursday has been evident in the training room. 
“He’s definitely working hard 
to get better, and I definitely see him playing,” Parsons said. “I 
don’t think he would ever miss 
this game.” HOOPS , from page 30
TYLER , from page 30Men's
Bask etballthat’s a big part of offensive ex-
plosions,” Fontana said. “The ball looked like a beach ball again. … I don’t run into those too often.”
Florida’s scoring barrage 
started right from the beginning.
The Gators  plated two runs 
in the first after Austin Maddox 
scorched a single up the middle 
and the ball rolled under Eagles center fielder Cam Walter’s glove and all the way to the wall. 
Fontana, who led off with a hit, 
scored, and Maddox chugged all the way home for the three-base error.
“We had the oxygen ready 
for him in the dugout,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan joked.
After a scoreless bottom of the 
second, the Gators plated at least two runs in the next six innings, including two five spots in the sixth and eighth.
In the sixth inning, Brian 
Johnson blasted his first homer of the season onto Stadium Road 
behind the right-field wall. Fol-
lowing his trot around the bases, Florida’s lefty ace received the si-lent treatment, as his teammates jokingly shunned him in the dug-out. 
Florida scored five runs in the 
eighth, including four on Mike Zunino’s monster grand slam.
“I really liked our swings,” 
O’Sullivan said. “We hit a lot of 
line drives. We hit a lot of balls 
hard. Any night when all nine starters get hits and seven guys have multiple-hit nights, it’s ob-
viously a great night for us.”
The Gators used a series of 
relievers in the midweek contest, 
as Steven ‘Paco’ Rodriguez made his second career start.
The left-hander tossed 3.1 
innings, struck out two and al-lowed two runs. 
Six pitchers threw in the blow-
out win, including little-used Jus-tin Poovey (1.1 innings and two runs) and Daniel Gibson (one in-ning and one run).
ETc.: Greg Larson continued his 
recent good work, striking out 
three in 1.1 innings. After the Eagles cut the lead to 6-4, the righty relieved Poovey , striking out three to end the threat. … In the eighth inning, freshman in-fielder Tyler Palmer collected his first-career RBI on a bases-loaded walk. …Fontana has a seven-
game hitting streak.Gators empty bullpen
BASE , from page 30