We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 41 THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n  UF women’s 
basketball coach 
Amanda Butler 
(right) has her team 
playing with new -
found confidence 
heading into the 
SEC Tournament 
after a three-game 
winning streak.
See Story, Page 17.Snapping Arizona dog takes over neighbor’s refrigerator
YUMA, Ariz. — A runaway dog dart-
ed into an Arizona apartment and found 
a cool place to hide — the bottom of the refrigerator.
A Yuma Fire Department spokes-
man says the family told firefighters the pooch rushed into their home when they opened the front door and kept snapping at them.
When they went to the fridge to get 
some food to try to lure the dog outside, the animal jumped in the appliance and refused to come out.
Firefighters found the small black 
terrier-type dog crouched on the bot-tom shelf, snapping at anyone who ap-proached. They used protective gear to pick up the pooch and put it in a carrier.
The dog had been reported missing 
by someone else at the apartment com-plex and was returned home safely.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Partly 
cloudy
77/53FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 17
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator
UF President Bernie Machen, right, and Alan Dershowitz discuss the United States’ relationship with Israel at 
the Phillips Center on Wednesday night. Dershowitz, a lawyer, is a commentator on the Arab-Israeli conflict.
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Alan Dershowitz wasn’t the 
best student growing up. He 
joked that below his high school yearbook photo it said, “Mouth of Webster, head of clay .” 
His high school principal 
said he wasn’t smart enough to become a rabbi, so he became a lawyer.
UF President Bernie Machen 
interviewed Dershowitz, a re-nowned lawyer and Harvard professor, in front of an audience of about 300 at the Phillips Cen-ter on Wednesday night.
Known for his opinions about 
the Middle East, Dershowitz spoke about issues affecting the area along with the revolutions 
in northern Africa. But he em-
phasized there is no way to pre-dict what will happen.
He talked about his time as 
a lawyer, definding a range of people from Deep Throat to O.J. Simpson, and now as a part of Julian Assange’s legal team. 
“For me, WikiLeaks is the 
Pentagon Papers of the 21st cen-tury.”
Though he never has met 
Assange, he said he has cor -
responded with him via e-mail and will meet him in two weeks in London.
“I’ve always felt the need 
to defend the underdog,” Der -
showitz said.
While he has been criticized 
for working  on the WikiLeaks case, nothing has been as harsh 
as the judgments passed on his 
involvement with the  O.J. Simp-son case.
“My mother called it the ‘oy 
vey O.J. case,’” he said.Dershowitz discusses law career, Middle East turmoil
See DeRSHOWITZ, p Age 5n HE SAID THE INCREASE IS 
NEEEDED TO PREVENT HUGE CUTS.
By ALeXANDeR KLAUSNeR
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite the doom and gloom a 30 per -
cent tuition hike might evoke from stu-
dents, UF President Bernie Machen sees it 
as a solution for weathering budget cuts in a troubled economy preparing for an up-swing.
The president said he has observed oth-
er states beginning to bounce back from the down economy, which gives him hope for Florida as well. 
“The only logic for this is that I think 
we’re almost at the end of [the economic downturn],” Machen said in an exclusive interview with the Alligator.
“If I’m wrong, we shouldn’t do this,” he said. “But if I’m wrong and we’re going to drop for another three to five years, we should be closing things down. Big cuts. So maybe it’s a hopeful projection.”
If the state legislature accepts Gov. Rick 
Scott’s proposal not to cut from higher ed-ucation’s bottom line in the 2011 budget, 
then there would be no need for such a drastic 
increase, Machen said.
However, that’s 
where he becomes a little 
less optimistic, or, at the 
very least, wants to be 
ready in case universi-
ties get some bad news.
Machen wants to use the tuition increase 
to help prop up undergraduate education 
as legislative budget cuts threaten to pull 
the rug out from under the university. President defends
tuition-hike proposal
By MeReDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
At the expense of long, leisurely 
showers, Riker Hall residents are this 
year’s top water savers.
The annual Eco-Challenge, hosted 
by UF’s Inter-Residence Hall Associa -
tion, pushes dorm residents to conserve water in January, use less electricity in 
February and reduce waste during both 
months.
Riker Hall won by saving 82,538 gal-
lons of water, as compared to last Janu-
ary. 
“It feels great,” said Ashley Arnold, 
a Riker Hall resident assistant. “I love winning. That’s all there is to it.”
Arnold, 21, said the thrill of competi-tion made saving energy easier.
“Even if there isn’t a prize, it’s a pride 
thing,” she said.
She said her hall’s residents held each 
other accountable.
If someone was taking too long in one 
of the hall’s two showers, Arnold said, 
the girls waiting would remind them to hurry up.
The students also turned off bath-
room and dorm room lights 
when they left them, which 
helped them compete in February’s challenge. Top 
electricity and waste savers have not been announced yet.
“It’s really just a community thing,” 
she said. “Saying, ‘Hey, this is a competi-tion. We want to win.’”Riker Hall wins dorm 
water-saving contest
See MACHeN, p Age 5OnCampu s
Machen
“I’ve always felt the 
need to defend the     
underdog.”
Alan Dershowitz
lawyerNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 41 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECASTWHAT’S HAPPENING
DU Got Talent
Today, 6:30 p.m.:08 NightclubDelta Upsilon Fraternity is holding its annual talent show and competition to raise mon-ey for the Boys and Girls Club of America. Everyone is in-vited to come out, have a good time and raise money for the kids.  Cover is $5 in advance and $6 at the door.
A Spring of Hope Meeting
Today, 6:15 p.m.Matherly Hall Room 14Come out to join a great cause and enjoy some free pizza and refreshments. Also check out the website at aspringofhope.
org.
Kansas vs. Darwin 
Through Friday
Libraries on campus
A documentary about the 
Kansas evolution hearings. In 
May of 2005, a three-member subcommittee of the Kansas State Board of Education 
held hearings to determine 
whether Darwin’s long-held 
theory of evolution should be challenged in public-school science curriculum. At stake 
was, in effect, the definition of 
science for Kansas schoolchil -
dren.
An Introduction to 
Astrophotography
Tuesday, 7 p.m.Powell HallArne Reykowski is the direc-tor of research for the Invivo Corporation in Gainesville.  Since his teenage years, he has been interested in astronomy, and from early on he experi-mented with astrophotogra-phy. Recently he went back to astronomy and discovered as-trophotography in the digital age which opens possibilities for the amateur astronomer. firefighters busy for several more 
days and force more highway clo-sures, the state agriculture com-missioner said Wednesday.
A stretch of interstate high-
way along Florida’s Atlantic coast was closed for more than an hour Wednesday because of the fire. In-
terstate 95 was first closed hours 
after the fire began Monday and 
into the next morning.
So far, the fire has burned about 
25 square miles. The cause is still under investigation.
More than 100 firefighters from 
four counties are fighting the blaze, 
which Florida Agriculture Com-missioner Adam Putnam said was 
25 percent contained. Their work 
was helped by rain Tuesday.
Smoke carried by the winds 
covered about 20 miles of I-95, 
forcing its temporary closure 
Wednesday . 
Putnam said intermittent clo-
sures of the interstate are expected 
for the rest of the week.
“The wind has been a real ag-
gravating factor and we only ex-
pect that to continue,” he said.
The blaze is about 25 miles 
north of the Kennedy Space Cen-
ter, but NASA has said operations there are not affected.
Parts of central and South 
Florida have seen their driest few months in nearly 80 years, setting the stage for a very active fire sea-
son.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS First Annual Gainesville 
Rugby St. Patrick’s Golf 
TournamentMarch 19, 1 p.m.West End Golf CourseEntry is $35 for individuals or $120 for a team of four. Registration includes the green fee, cart and a recep-tion. For more details go to  gainesvillerugbyclub.com/golf.htm.
Hustle for Humanity 3K/6K
March 26, 8 a.m.UF Commuter LotThe top three runners in the men’s division and the wom-en’s division each will win a prize. T-shirts will be pro-vided to the first 25 people who register and food will be provided after the race to all participants. Register on-line at ufhabitat.org. It costs $15 to pre-register and $20 on the day of registration. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
STATE
Florida wildfire battle likely to last rest of week
MIMS — Florida’s first sig-
nificant wildfire of the year is 
threatening to keep dozens of MONDAY
SUNNY
72/47THUNDER
STORMS
74/47SUNDAY SATURDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/53PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/56FRIDAY
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By DEREK GILLIAM
Alligator Contributing Writer
A map of the world with bits 
of paper stuck to it hangs in Amy Panikowski’s office.
For Panikowski, the Peace 
Corps recruiter for UF, each bit of 
paper represents someone she re-cruited who is now serving as a Volunteer.  
Entire regions disappear un-
derneath the names of Volunteers. West Africa hides below the white strips bonded by sewing pins. Latin America’s many countries vanish into a mess of small white slivers. Eastern Europe and South America also are dotted with pins and pieces of paper. 
 Most of the names stick to the 
map with a simple pin, but two names have tacks.  One is a blue tack sticking through Malawi, rep-resenting Panikowski’s service.
Then there’s the silver tack 
piercing through Lesotho. 
Small black letters typed out 
on the bit of paper read “Thomas Maresco, Science Teacher.” 
   
n  n  n
He would come to the globe 
talks Panikowski gave once a 
month. He would hear stories of 
past Peace Corps Volunteers: sto-ries about seeing exotic locations, helping the less fortunate, making friendships that spanned oceans.  The stories sounded great.
He was always the first there 
and helped set up the room. She remembers him sitting in the back 
of the conference room on one of 
the tables and kicking his legs like a schoolboy. 
He was the last to leave if he 
didn’t have work. He worked the night shift for a chemical company. While at work, he would scour the Internet for any Peace Corps blogs he could find. 
He had questions about what 
he read and regularly talked with Panikowski. They talked about what he could do to help. Where he wanted to go, where he could be 
sent, things he should bring with 
him and what he could expect. 
These conversations went 
on for two months before No-vember 2008, when he was nominated to be a Volunteer.  
He graduated that year with a de-gree in biology from UF and would teach science in Lesotho. Medical 
school was a possibility once he 
returned.
“I think in a lot of ways we are 
always looking for a Tom in our lives,” she said. “But I think, in a way, he found me.” 
n  n  n
   Panikowski says she is the best 
campus recruiter for the Peace Corps. She has said that for the past three years she has led all col-lege recruiters in nominations. 
After completing her under -
graduate work at Mars Hill Col-lege in North Carolina, she was the only one from her class to volun-teer for the Peace Corps. 
Stationed in Malawi in 2001, 
Panikowski still misses Africa. She 
misses the people, the landscape 
and the sense of accomplishment that came with volunteer work. 
Sent home early after coming 
down with malaria and having bad reactions to the medicine, she said she wishes she could have spent more time there. 
After bouncing around be-
tween a couple jobs, she landed in Gainesville in 2005 and started recruiting for UF. The pay isn’t great, but she doesn’t do it for the money. 
“I do it because they inspire me 
every time I see them, and I’m re-ally proud to have them go and 
make a difference in another per -
son’s life,” she said. “I think that’s 
the best reward I can ever get.”
n  n  n
   Terry Keyzer said he never seri-
ously thought about volunteering for the Peace Corps but sometimes would go to Panikowski’s talks be-
cause Maresco went to them. 
Keyzer and Maresco went to 
the same high school but didn’t 
start hanging out until college. They brewed beer together and would go out and shoot pool at Gator City on Friday nights.   
When Keyzer wrecked his mo-torcycle and had emergency sur -
gery to remove his appendix, five 
people visited him in the hospital. 
Maresco was one of them, bringing Keyzer his favorite cigar and an is-sue of Maxim magazine. 
Maresco always knew what to 
say, Keyzer said.
When he left, he left behind his 
fiancee, Maya; his dog, Coco; a host of friends; and his parents. 
They expected him to come 
back. His dad had made plans for a November trip to Lesotho. 
n  n  n
 Maresco arrived in the small 
African country around Novem-ber 2009. During training, his host mother gave him his Sesotho name, “Reitumetse” (Ray-Two-Metsey), 
which means  “the one we believe 
in.” They told Maresco he was a gift from God. 
He finished training and was placed in the mountain village of Katse. He taught 12th-grade biol-ogy and 10th-grade math. 
He skinned his first sheep. 
He watched a World Cup game in South Africa, cheering for the 
United States. 
When he was missing people 
from back home, he would listen 
to songs that reminded him of his friends and family. 
Maresco was doing something 
he believed was helping. The Peace Corps seemed like everything he 
could want. 
n  n  n
   
On Sept. 3, 2010, Thomas Car -
mine Maresco Jr. was shot and killed in Lesotho’s capital city of 
Maseru, one block away from the 
Peace Corps training facility. 
He and a friend were walk-
ing together near the Maseru Sun Cabanas Hotel when they heard a noise in the bushes. A man with a gun confronted the two and shot Maresco in the chest. His friend ran into the hotel and the police 
were called. 
Panikowski found out Sunday 
night when she was with her fami-
ly celebrating Labor Day weekend. A friend texted her saying she was sorry to hear about the death of a UF Peace Corps Volunteer. 
She ran to a computer and 
found out. She lost it.
She couldn’t do anything for 
a week. She felt like she was in a daze. In some ways, she says she still is.
 “The hardest thing I ever had 
to do was to accept that he was gone and he’s not coming back,” she said.
One of the names on her map 
was never going to come home. 
n  n  n
    A Peace Corps representative 
from Washington, D.C., called the family and said they would have Maresco’s body home in three days. On the fourth day, Maresco’s dad, Thomas Maresco Sr., called and told them he was going to 
South Africa to bring home his 
son. 
“I’m convinced that if I didn’t 
insist on going that he might still be there,” Maresco Sr. said. 
It took two weeks for Maresco’s 
body to reach Port St. Lucie, his hometown. Parts of the funeral can be seen on YouTube. 
Panikowski attended the funer -
al. She went because she felt like she had to say goodbye one last time. She went for closure and to say some words to the family. 
The family didn’t want to be 
reminded of anything that repre-sented the Peace Corps. 
They feel the whole recruit-
ing process paints a picture of the Peace Corps that is not completely true. They feel Maresco wasn’t pre-pared for some situations and that he wasn’t given the proper training or knowledge of what faced him in a developing country. 
“They recruit your kids, like the 
Army or the Navy or the Marines,” Maresco Sr. said. “I don’t think they gave him the whole picture.”
Maresco Sr. equates the short-
comings of his son’s training to sending a Marine to Afghanistan without a weapon or flak jacket. 
“They send these kids to these 
third world nations, where life doesn’t mean anything,” he said.
Everything was too fresh. The 
family wouldn’t speak to Pan-ikowski, so she said her final goodbyes to Maresco and left the 
funeral. 
Panikowski says she feels like 
she has been living in two different 
time speeds this semester. Some-times time flies; other times, it crawls.  She sees a grief counselor. 
Still, she recruits. Since Mares-
co’s death, she has helped 20 to 25 students through the nomination 
process. She thinks once the nomi-
nations are tallied she will have the most among college campuses. 
She still feels awful about what 
happened. 
“I’m very sorry that someone 
chose to take him away from ev-erything he was doing, and I’m very sorry someone took him from 
everyone that should have known 
him,” she said. 
But she thinks Maresco would 
want her to continue helping peo-ple, to continue doing her job, to continue living every day. 
But she doesn’t believe she will 
ever be able to take Maresco’s tack down. 4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011
Special to the Alligator
Thomas Maresco poses for a photo in Lesotho during his time in the 
Peace Corps. Maresco died in the African country last September.
Still Searching for Peace 
Nicole Crisp / Alligator
Amy Panikowski looks at the photos from her recent trip to South Africa in her UF office. Panikowski, the 
Peace Corps recruiter at UF, helped recruit Maresco.
Peace Corps recruiter mourns VolunteerTHURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Alexander Kaufman / Alligator
Later Gator
An 8-foot alligator sits in the waters of Lake Alice on Saturday evening. Along with the Bat 
House, many people come to Lake Alice at dusk to see birds, turtles and the occasional gator.
Machen said campus isn’t 
safer with armed students
“The majors [students] want, 
the professors they want and the 
quality of education they’re go-ing to get when they get out of 
here is at risk,” he said. “If the 
reason you come here is to get an education that’s really good, and 
I can’t [provide] that anymore, 
then it’s in your interest for me to do whatever I have to do to make this place good or keep it good. 
“If students are looking at 
their pocketbooks only,” Machen added, “they might not get it. But I’ve talked to enough students who are willing to be philosophi-
cal about this.”
Despite Machen’s wish to in-
crease tuition, any such measure 
would have to be approved by the Florida Legislature, said UF 
spokeswoman Janine Sikes. 
News of a tuition increase will 
come as disappointing news to 
opponents of block tuition, who 
already fear that students taking 
12 credits while paying for 15 would be paying too much. 
UF administrators have con-
tinually supported the measure, 
and block tuition is proposed to 
go into effect in fall 2012.
During the spring Student 
Government elections in Febru-ary, 90 percent of students voted against block tuition. 
However, Machen said, that won’t be enough to sway his opinion.
“That referendum says we 
can’t do it because we don’t want it,” he said. “That in and of itself is not enough.”
“I don’t think the students 
have thoughtfully engaged block tuition,” he said. “I’m waiting for arguments against it, but we haven’t gotten any yet. The 
argument that you can’t join 
clubs as a full-time student — 93 percent of our students are full time students. They haven’t matched arguments with reality.”  
Though Machen and the Student Body are singing different tunes 
regard -
ing block 
tuition, 
the two  
certainly are more united when it comes to the issue of guns on campus. 
The Florida Legislature is con-
sidering a bill that would allow students to openly carry guns on campus. The Student Senate 
passed a resolution to oppose the lift on the campus gun ban, and 
all university police chiefs across the state are also opposed.
“The college campus is not 
safer with people carrying guns on it,” he said. “It’s a position that 
some take that the place would 
be safer if everyone had a gun. I don’t believe that.”MACHEN , from page 1
He is part of Julian Assange’s legal team
But his mother wasn’t the only one furious with him 
for taking the case. He said people spit at him, wrote 
nasty articles about him and even sent his mother death 
threats.
Even with all the things he’s had to deal with as a law-
yer, he encouraged students who want to be lawyers to find a niche they love and to be passionate about their work.He said that while he loves the weekends, he also 
loves to say “Thank God it’s Monday” because he gets to go back to work. 
“Don’t let anybody steal that passion from you,” he 
said.
Accent Speakers Bureau Chairman Zachary Goldstein 
said Accent contributed $15,000 to pay for Dershowitz’s 
visit, but it was a collaborative effort with UF Hillel and 
Jewish Awareness Month. He did not know the amounts the other groups contributed.DERSHOWITZ , from page 1UFAdministrationThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Would you buy 
a camera that alters your appearance in its photos?Wednesday’s question: Have you ever visited another country?
90% YES10% NO
99 TOTAL VOTES
Airbrushed Reality
Instant Photoshop is one 
step closer to reality, but hold off on the celebra-
tion.
A Panasonic camera in-
stantly can erase blemishes from a photo or even add digital makeup to a person’s face with the click of a but-ton. It sounds like interest-ing technology because it re-quires the accurate detection of the human face, but we’re a little concerned about the underlying concept. 
We can’t blame the com -
pany for developing the 
camera. After all, it’s just 
giving us what we want. If magazine models get air -
brushed, why can’t we? Sure, we could make the same changes in software on our computers, but that takes time and effort, mak-ing us more likely to post and share raw pictures with friends and family. With in-
stantaneous changes, sup-
posedly for the better, we’re 
expecting to be even more 
surprised when we compare 
people’s real faces to those 
we see in pictures. Looking 
tanner or thinner or younger 
in photos can make real life 
that much more jarring. 
It’s lying, not just to oth-
ers but to ourselves, to edit 
our appearances so much. 
And this camera would al-
low these “improvements” 
to become a regular step in capturing someone’s like-ness. It just seems to be an-other step on our collective road to showing others less of who we truly are. Besides, holding off on the photo altering will ensure fewer awkward conversations about whether you’ve lost weight or recently went on vacation.Speak Your Mind
Court defends First 
Amendment
When we first heard about the 8-1 Supreme Court 
ruling in favor of the Westboro Baptist Church, we were confused. This ridiculous group pro-
tests outside military funerals, including the one in ques-tion held for Marine Lance Cpl. Matthew Snyder, putting the families of the soldiers through more grief than neces-sary. 
But they do it legally, within the parameters of local 
laws and under the protection of the First Amendment.
Eight of the justices decided it wasn’t their place to 
abridge the church members’ freedom of speech simply because it was offensive to others. 
Although our guts might tell us otherwise, our coun-
try protects their right to express themselves in a peace-ful manner on public property, no matter how bothersome their messages may be.
After we realized the court was taking a Voltaire-like 
stance on the issue, most of our concerns were satisfied. Except one: Why would a justice vote against this right?
Good ol’ Samuel Alito never lets us down. He made 
the lone dissenting vote, arguing the Marine’s family had 
a right to privacy during the funeral and that it was in-
fringed upon by the protestors. We’re thankful none of the other justices shared his view on what we consider one of the most important components of American life. 
There are restrictions on what the First Amendment 
covers, even now, such as so-called “fighting words.” However, if we restrict the right to peaceably assemble and protest, we lose part of what it means to be American.
Gerrymandering a lingering problem
It’s a weird day in political La-La Land when the Tea 
Party members and Democrats agree on an issue. 
Last November, state voters decided in favor of 
changing the manner in which state legislative districts and congressional districts are drawn. Amendments Five 
and Six, as they were known respectively, passed easily 
thanks to the support of groups mentioned above. The goals of the amendments are to “not have districts be drawn to deny racial or language minorities the equal opportunity to participate in the political process and elect representatives of their choice, districts must be contiguous. Unless otherwise required, districts must be compact, as equal in population as feasible, and where feasible must make use of existing city, county and geo-
graphical boundaries.”
Florida has some of the most gerrymandered districts 
in the country. These districts are drawn solely to favor 
an incumbent or a specific political party. One does not need to go far to see the gerrymandering in action. The campus is split in two; anything north of University Av-enue, as well as the President’s Home, is in a different district from the rest of the campus. This district stretches south to Orlando and north to downtown Jacksonville. 
Additionally, the state’s ratio of Republicans to Demo-
crats is absurdly disproportionate to voter registration partisanship as well as presidential results. In fact, the Republicans have a veto-proof majority in both branches of the state legislature, mainly due to gerrymandering. 
Furthermore, the amendments are critical given that 
the state gained two additional congressional districts. The lion’s share of the growth is due to sharp increases in the Hispanic population in southwest Florida as well 
as rapid growth in central Florida. Thus, these districts 
would be more politically competitive than if they were drawn unfairly by the legislature. 
Despite all the outrageous situations of gerrymander -
ing and the overwhelming mandate of the voters to recti-fy the situation, Gov. Rick Scott decided to pull a request for federal approval of the amend-ments three days after taking office. The request former Gov. 
Charlie Crist had in place since 
last December is required to ensure that the plan would be in compliance with the Voting Rights Act and preserve the 
Hispanic minority population on the state’s west coast. Nevertheless, the governor claims he is unsure how it would be implemented. This lack of interest in going for -
ward with the voter’s plan also resulted in a lawsuit filed 
against the governor for pulling the request for federal 
approval. Interestingly, Oklahoma and California, which implemented similar amendments, do not seem to have similar apprehension toward them. Each of these amend-ments received more than 600,000 more votes than Scott did, and it is an insult to the voters of the state. 
Critics of the amendments claim the whole process is 
a sham for Democrats to usurp power. This is disproved easily by the fact that one of the largest opponents to 
the bill is in fact U.S. Rep. Corrine Brown, a Democrat. 
Brown represents the district described previously, claiming that the amendments would weaken the ability for minorities to attain appropriate representation. It is important to note that minority rights advocacy groups such as the NAACP and the Hispanic Democracia-Ahora have actually asked to join the case as defendants. Both are major proponents of the amendments. 
All we ask of Scott is to go forward with the amend-
ments and allow Florida to become a state with fair rep-resentation where politicians do not pick their constitu-ents, but where constituents pick their politicians. 
Chad Mohammed is a second year chemical engineering 
major. His column appears on Thursdays.
Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.org
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Shooting still mentioned out of context a year later
It’s one year later, and the Student Body still does not 
know all the facts behind the Kofi Adu-Brempong incident. 
But what we do know stinks to high heaven.
A man causing a loud, potentially threatening distur -
bance in Corry Village — where many UF students live with 
their children — had the police called on him. Kofi refused 
to calm down and, after an hour of “negotiation,” assaulted 
Officer Smith with a metal rod. Kofi was then shot, as most 
people running at a police officer with a weapon would be. So far so good? Wrong.
In the protests that ensued, Kofi’s case reached Rodney 
King status in Gainesville, sans riots, and police began inves-
tigating. Kofi was pardoned for resisting arrest and assault 
on an officer of the law. Bernie Machen reached an agree-ment where “alumni funds” (read: still students’ money) would be used, probably for Kofi’s medical bills and other 
damages.I am speaking for all students who are tired of being ha-
rangued on Turlington Plaza about the still-due “justice for 
Kofi.” Black students especially should find demeaning the egregious use of the race card by Dave Schneider and his lackeys — a loose congregation of well-meaning students, 
“indies” and failed grad students — who seem to be out 
there with a megaphone for the express purpose of hearing 
their own voices. 
Jacob Rockwell
Gainesville resident
n n n
Medicaid’s optional services a poor choice for cuts
In the Tuesday editorial, “Surgical Cuts: Proposed budget 
targets most vulnerable,” you stated that Florida shouldn’t be paying for dentures, eyeglasses or hearing aids because “they don’t support life itself.”
AARP Florida and others recognize that these optional 
services indeed are crucial for Florida’s elderly to stay healthy and live independently. These services may be called “optional,” but cuts would cost more than they save.
For instance, many frail Medicaid patients who receive 
dental services may have increased difficulty eating if they’re not able to get dentures and other care through Med-icaid. Without dental care, their health suffers in many ways, which leads to much higher costs for hospital, nursing home and assisted living care.
The American Dental Association says mid-range den-
tures cost between $500 and $1,000 per plate. By compari-son, nursing home costs in Florida range from $65,000 to $70,000 per year, while hospitalization costs could be several times those figures.
Jeff Johnson 
AARP Florida Interim State Director
A proposed bill would allow undocumented Oregon stu-
dents fulfilling certain requirements to attend and pay resident tuition at Oregon universities.
Senate Bill 742 is sponsored by several Oregon senators and 
representatives and outlines a system to allow students who 
are not citizens of the United States, and students whose guard-
ians are not citizens of the United States, to pay resident tuition at Oregon institutes of higher education.
To qualify , students must have received a diploma from an 
Oregon high school no more than three years before applying to college, and attended an Oregon school at least three years immediately preceding the receipt of diploma.
The bill proposes that such students be exempt from non-
resident tuition for a maximum of five years, and that the poli-
cy go into effect beginning in fall term 2012.
Similar initiatives have been pro-
posed for the last several years, said Jock 
Mills, OSU director of Government Re-lations. Mills said the bill would allow students to receive an education that 
could change their lives.
“Universities don’t just exist to give people the tools to get 
better jobs … the university I attended did a lot more than pre-
pare me for the working world; it prepared me for a life that 
goes far beyond that, in terms of understanding different cul-tures, appreciating the arts and just being aware of what’s go-ing on in the world, that makes me a better citizen regardless of what my job is,” Mills said.
OSU President Ed Ray said he has supported charging un-
documented students resident tuition since he came to OSU in 2003, and that undocumented students who are unable to attend college because they must pay non-resident tuition rep-
resent a lost opportunity.
“The university exists to benefit the people of Oregon 
through educational opportunities and economic and social 
contributions,” Ray said. “Providing these young people with the tools they need to be productive tax-paying and communi-ty-leading citizens in the future seems appropriate to me. …We should not risk losing another generation of young and talent-ed high school graduates who, through no fault of their own, are now being priced out of realizing their full potential.”
According to Kate Peterson, assistant provost for Enroll-
ment Management, while undocumented students are not strictly allowed to attend OSU, every student’s application is not necessarily verified. Peterson said undocumented students who provided false information to attend OSU would not be able to access financial aid.
“It’s not something that we go checking on; you don’t have 
to show a copy of your birth certificate to be admitted, but the problem is even if a student got in through an erroneous appli-
cation, what are they going to do when they graduate without 
a social security card?” Peterson said. “They’re not allowed to use the education they just got legally.”
Peterson said the impact of SB 742 could be enhanced by the 
passing of the DREAM Act, which would allow undocument-ed residents to work legally in the United States after receiving a degree.
Kayla Harr is a student at Oregon State University.Bill may cut cost for 
immigrant children“GTL,” the famous line from reality show 
“Jersey Shore” that stands for “Gym, Tan , Laundry,” has plagued the nation. The 
pressure to look beautiful only when tan, rather than flaunting “pasty, white skin,” as the show’s cast mem-
bers describe it, has consumed the minds of young 
adults.
Even apartments near the University of South 
Florida offer free tanning beds to residents, and stu-dent discounts are offered at various tanning parlors. Overall, the culture of tanning has increased exponen-tially for the worse.
The American Academy of Pediatrics announced 
Monday that laws should be enacted to ban minors 
from going to tanning parlors. According to CNN, the 
World Health Organization, the American Medical Association and the American Academy of Dermatol-ogy hold the same opinion. Last year, a 10 percent tax on tanning services was included in the health care reform law.
However, for some, this has not reduced the craze 
of seeking sun-kissed, glowing skin. But, as teenager Samantha Hessel learned, tanning comes with conse-
quences.
According to CNN, Hessel had frequently used 
tanning beds for four years before she was diagnosed 
with melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer. Although no data exists to prove teenagers are more prone to developing cancer from tanning beds than 
adults are, it’s quite natural to assume they may be 
more likely to make irresponsible choices when choos-ing tanning beds without researching their harm.
Furthermore, sunlamps and tanning beds emit 
UVA rays, which may give patrons a glow without burns but also cause wrinkles and DNA damage that causes skin darkening. Looking good for homecoming or prom defi-
nitely is not worth pre-aging by 10 to 20 years, Dr. 
David Fisher, chief of dermatology at Massachusetts 
General Hospital and professor of pediatrics at Har -
vard Medical School, said to CNN. UVA radiation “may be 10 to 15 times higher than the midday sun,” according to a report in Pediatrics.
The Indoor Tanning Association doesn’t want the 
government to interfere and feels parents should be free to make decisions for their children, according to Fox News.
Tanning salons even have issued statements assur -
ing customers that UV rays are healthy because they provide Vitamin D, which many doctors consider ir -
responsible and misleading advice. Tanning beds’ vitamin D content doesn’t outweigh its UV damage, which causes 8,000 deaths due to metastatic melano-ma and 1.5 million cases of skin cancer annually in the U.S., according to the National Institutes of Health.
Even though it’s unwise to let the government in-
tervene in citizens’ personal business, teens and young adults should be more proactive about their decisions. One always should research the pros and cons of any activity before pursuing it, especially when a few min-utes of research ultimately could save a life.
Students should forget replicating “Jersey Shore” 
cast member Snooki’s faux glow before they end up with a real “situation” that may turn their lives for the worse.
Zahira Babwani is a student at the University of South 
Florida.Students should avoid tanning bedsUWire
Zahira Babwani
UWire
Kayla Harr
UWireUWiretheAvenue         thursday, march 3, 2011
ListThe-Secrets of the Swamp: Stripped  
-Fifth Avenue Swimsuit Guide 
for Spring Break
-Catching up with Marc Hen-
nessey of local band To All My Dear Friends
-UF alumna starts yoga bag line  
Visit: www.alligator.org/the_
avenueONLINE:INSIDE: 
PG 9: Can’t get enough of the 
warm weather? We can’t either. Check out the Avenue’s top picks for local bike shops, buy a bike and get rolling.
PG 10: Stuck in Gainesville for 
Spring Break: Top things to do for under $10Pissed off about pollen, too? Check out the Avenue’s lament for the stuff that clogs your nose and won’t come off your car.
PG 11: Check out the first install-
ment of the Avenue’s Gainesville Meditation Center Guide
by LAUREN GOLD and TYLER FRANCIS -LISTEN: “ Rolling in the Deep” 
If you’ve seen the preview for the movie “I 
Am Number Four,” you’ll recognize this song. Adele’s amazing vocals and the song’s jazzy feel make this a must-download — and may-be an excuse to see the movie, too. 
SEE: “ Take Me Home Tonight”
Ah — it’s been so long since we’ve seen one of those so-bad-it’s-good comedies. Gear up for silly humor and an on-screen documenta-tion of familiar, fun-filled college nights.
WATCH: “ Chopped All-Stars” 
series premiere
Watch top chefs go head-to-head in timed rounds as they cook each course with the most unlikely ingredients. After each course, someone is chopped — er, eliminated — until only the winner remains. Check it out at 
9 p.m. Sunday on the Food Network.
GO: Mardi Gras - Universal Orlando
In its 16th year, this family-friendly event 
offers live music, authentic Cajun fare and a parade with floats and glittery dancers. Plus, you don’t have to take your top off to get some beads. Check out Mardi Gras over 
spring break or anytime through April 23.Local woman makes living selling junk
By THOMAS NASSIFF
avenue contributing writer 
 Geneva Jarvis hasn’t missed a day of work 
in 25 years.
She wakes up early in her log cabin and 
walks onto her wooden porch. She meanders 
past thousands of musty and yellowed books, 
endless tables of dusty glass, Coca-Cola and Pepsi bottles, stacks upon stacks of rubber 
tires, aisles of rusty metal blades and droves 
of pots and pans.
Then she heads to the front of her land, 
creaks open the metal gate to the Orange Lake Antique Village and Trading Post, and sits down in an old lawn chair.
She waits, smiling.When people drive by Jarvis’ property on 
U.S. Highway 441, south of Gainesville and just 
past McIntosh, the glimmer of glass bottles 
and the shine of the scrap metal might catch their eyes. A glance toward the side of the road 
reveals quite a sight: about four acres of junk.  
Jarvis, 67, and also known as the “junk lady” 
among some UF students, sells this junk. 
Because she doesn’t know exactly what ev -
erything is worth, she calls it like she sees it.
When customers approach her, they see a 
frail and worn-looking woman, the lines in her skin deepened by too many years baking in the sun. There is almost always a cigarette in her hand, and the cigarette is usually burned close 
to its end — one stick from the two packs she 
normally smokes in a day.
Although formidable to some from afar, up 
close, Jarvis’s bright blue eyes and clever smile reel you in. She doesn’t have all of her teeth, but she probably doesn’t need them. She 
walks taller and speaks louder than one might 
expect.
When her customers fin-
ish shopping, they bring her 
bags full of what they would like to take home. Some buy 
broken stereo speakers for 
$5. Others peruse stacks of personalized memorabilia to 
find something for an art project. Some locals like to stop by for an old dining set ranging from $70 to $100 or a chest of drawers for $30.
“I decorated my whole house buying stuff 
from here,” said Sid McCarty, a regular at Jarvis’ lot.
McCarty has gone to the trading post sever -
al times a week for “a long time,” Jarvis said.
Jarvis’ prices haven’t changed since she 
opened the lot.“The prices are whatever,” she said. 
“I’ll charge people a quarter for some things, and bigger things cost more.”  
Jarvis, with a smirk of experience, said, “I’d rather get rid of the stuff than have it sitting around for five years.”
Five years isn’t the longest something has 
laid around here. She and her husband, Randy, get their trade through estate sales and fore -
closed properties. They take everything they can.
Toilet bowls, lawn mowers, cups, college de -
grees, children’s toys, electronics, sofas, knife sets, old empty bottles of booze — Jarvis takes everything.
Before Jarvis and her husband sold junk to -
gether, Jarvis worked in Orlando with a differ -
ent partner. All told, she has been in this line of 
business for about 45 years, she said.
At this location, she’s had repeat custom-
ers, like Sid, for about 20 years. Some people have come once a week for that long. Some 
come more often.
Jarvis knows the regulars. She knows the 
ones who can’t drive by without pulling over. She knows the ones who will come in and try to steal her stuff.Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Geneva Jarvis, who runs a junkyard off U.S. Highway 441, sorts through some of the items for sale on
 Friday, Feb. 25, 2011. Known by some as the “junk lady,” Jarvis doesn’t put price tags on the items she sells. 
She just calls it like she sees it. “The prices are whatever,” she said. “I’ll charge people a quarter for some 
things, and bigger things cost more.”turning trash to treasure
see JUNK, page 9thursday, march 3, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
“The thieves are never the 
ones you expect, but I know ’em 
all,” she said. “What I’ll do is, 
when they come to pay, I’ll just 
charge them more for what they do show me. It ends up even.”
Although Jarvis has a license 
to sell the junk, her acres of treasures seem relatively unpro -
tected.
When it gets dark and she 
closes the gate, nothing’s there 
to stop intruders: not her collec-
tion of more than 30 birds, nor her infamous pet llama, Zazoo. 
But one of Jarvis’ sons, Huber, is 
usually on watch at night. 
The glory of it all is that it 
doesn’t seem anyone would re -
ally go through the trouble of stealing anything. 
Some of her most common 
visitors are busloads of UF and Santa Fe College students, who 
each usually spend about $5 to $10.
One of the most common 
questions Jarvis gets is one of 
people wondering why she does 
what she does. 
“I’m not gonna get rich off of 
this, but it pays the bills,” Jarvis said. “It’s better than punching a 
clock every day.”
Although Jarvis is past retire -
ment age, she loves her work. She said that the older people get, the less they do, and at the 
end of the day it’s something to 
keep herself busy. She tells her customers to come back when-
ever they want because she’ll be 
out there, about 10 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a 
year, for years to come.
Slowly standing up from her 
chair and smoking the last of her cigarette, Jarvis’ eyes brighten.
“I’ll probably end up dying 
out here in this chair in this park -
ing lot.”She works 365 days a year
JUNK , from page 8Gainesville bike store roundup
By RICHARD O. STEHLI
avenue writer
I see you every day as I commute to school on my 
bicycle. You’re waiting for the bus. You’re sitting in traf-
fic. You’re driving around in circles looking for a park -
ing space. You’re pumping gas at more than $3 a gal-lon. You know what I do when I see you? I laugh. And 
then I get to class on time, without fail.
The mercury has been firmly out of the 40s for at 
least a week, which begs the question: Why the heck 
aren’t you riding a bike?
Head down to one of these local bike shops and fig-
ure out what works for you. There are countless styles, shapes, colors and sizes to meet your needs, and bike shop employees are expertly trained at finding a per -
fect fit for your lifestyle. 
Here’s the lowdown on a handful of bike shops on 
or within walking distance of University Avenue:
Super Cool Bike Shop3460 W. University Ave.Brands: Cannondale, SpecializedSuper Cool Bike Shop has the nicest looking show -
room in Gainesville, and it’s loaded with high-quality bikes and gear. Nice commuter bikes start at $390, 
and purchasing a new bike gets you 20 percent off 
accessories and one year of free service. Super Cool is the official team sponsor of Team Florida and the TriGators, and the shop offers a discount to members of the Gainesville Cycling Club.“Our owner puts the money from the store back into 
cycling — either reinvesting in the store or sponsoring riders and events in Gainesville,” said store manager Justin Marquand.
Schwinn Shop1225 W. University Ave.Brands: Schwinn, GT, Giant, Masi, Redline, HaroSchwinn Shop caters to students. It’s one block 
from campus and has a great selection for all tastes. 
All styles have an entry-level model for about $300, 
and a new bike gets you two years of free mainte -
nance. Schwinn Shop also buys and sells used bikes.
“We are the funnest and most 
bike-friendly bike shop in Gainesville,” said owner Dave Bingaman.
Mr. Goodbike425 NW 13th St.
Brands: Electra, Marin, Redline, 
Kona
Mr. Goodbike has an easygoing vibe and a good se -
lection of both new and used bikes. They specialize in 
commuter styles, so you probably will want to go else -
where if you’re looking to drop some serious money on a road bike. New bikes built for cruising start at about $200, with used bikes as low as $50.
“We’re just a quality bike shop with good, honest, 
experienced service at fair, student-friendly prices,” said owner Mike Hetrick.
10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, march 3, 2011
Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
UF English junior 
Michael Newman 
makes business 
look casual by 
pairing a button-up 
shirt with mustard-
yellow Converse 
shoes. Newman 
said he likes 
thrift stores, but 
sometimes he’ll 
spring for a good 
pair of pants from 
the mall.
UF business 
administration 
junior Mariana 
Madariaga pairs 
a floral-print skirt 
with a jean jacket 
and fun oversized 
sunglasses. A 
foreign exchange 
student from 
Chile, she’s found 
Forever 21 to be 
among her favorite 
American stores. For the latest frills, flair and 
everything fashion, check out 
what our lens caught this week. 
Dana Burke / Alligator StaffDana Burke / Alligator Staff
How to do spring break right in town
By KELLY RICHARD 
avenue contributing writer 
Although cruising the Caribbean or 
fist-pumping on the shores of Panama 
City Beach may sound like a blast — and we’re not saying either isn’t — those stay -
ing in town next week don’t have to go far 
or spend a lot of money to be entertained. 
Gainesville and its nearby cities have plenty of fun activities to keep you busy during spring break. Check out the Avenue’s top picks:
Ichetucknee Springs State ParkPrice: $6 per vehicle Located at 12087 SW U.S. 27, Fort 
White, Fla., the park has a six-mile river and springs. Guests can bring their own tubes or rent them from a nearby store and go tub-
ing in the park’s south entrance.  
Paynes Prairie Pre-
serve State Park
Price: $6 per vehicle This state park, at 
100 Savannah Blvd., Micanopy, Fla., houses 
more than 420 kinds of vertebrates. Visi-tors can bike, camp, canoe, kayak, picnic or hike on trails.  Camping reservations can be made through www.reserveamerica.com.
Kanapaha Botanical GardensPrice: $6 per adultThe botanical gardens, 4700 SW 58th 
Drive, Gainesville, Fla., has 24 major collec-tions of plants on its 62 acres. With its lush scenery, it’s the perfect place for a picnic. 
Florida Museum of Natural History 
Butterfly Rainforest
Price: $8 for UF or other Florida college 
students with a valid ID
Located in the UF Cultural Plaza at SW 
34th Street and Hull Road, the Butterfly Rainforest boasts 60 to 80 different spe -
cies fluttering around in the outdoor space.

Pollen, why do you 
Insist on violating my 
nose
 
With your yellow 
dust
 
It’s not like I have 
Anything better 
to do
 
Than blow my red 
nose
 
But I’d like to tan  
Picnic with friends, 
see the day
 
Pollen, leave me 
be 
I’ve pollen  and I can’t get up!
Cynthia Despres and Tyler Francischine / Alligator Staffthursday, march 3, 2011  uALLIGATOR, 11
  By the time you have read this column, I 
will have left Gainesville, curled up on my couch back home and put myself 
into a video game coma. Instead of catching up on new releases during my time off, as I assume many will do, I like playing  my fa-vorite games during breaks. I feel as if I’m 
returning to a time of innocence before pa-
pers, projects and deadlines consumed my life. In my opinion, new releases — even the ones your friends rave about — are way too expensive to risk buying. However, if you do 
happen to have $60 burning a hole in your 
wallet and want to try something new, here are two new games you should play during your week of freedom.
  “Marvel vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two 
Worlds”
  Console: PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360  Price: $60  Before “Super Smash Bros.” upped the 
ante for chaotic ﬁ  ghting games with “Melee” and “Brawl,” the MvC franchise offered the 
preeminent chance to play wacky characters 
ﬁ  ghting other wacky characters amidst ran-dom explosions. 
  After several years on hiatus, Capcom 
has revived the franchise and included a new group of characters that have appeared, such as Viewtiful Joe, Dante, Amaterasu and that guy from “Bionic Commando.” 
  On the Marvel side, Deadpool makes 
his ﬁ  rst franchise appearance, along with some of Marvel’s weirder characters, such as M.O.D.O.K. and Dormammu. In all, it has 36 characters  available, and developers are 
working on making more characters in the 
future. 
  The three-on-three ﬁ  ghting system — the 
series’ staple — hasn’t changed much, but the controls have been simpliﬁ  ed, making it easier for beginners to set up combos and engage screen-ﬁ  lling 
laser explosions. 
  Beginners to the 
genre also will ﬁ  nd 
an easy and fun way 
to beat a Sentinel to 
death with a wolf-god, but hardcore fans should learn to accept 
the less complex gameplay.
  “Bulletstorm”  Console: PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and PC  Price: $60
  If after a yearlong bender of playing noth-
ing but “Call of Duty” and “Halo: Reach” your 
taste for ﬁ  rst-person shooters has soured, Epic Games might have the perfect palate-cleansing product.  “Bulletstorm” is similar to its big broth-
er, “Gears of War,” in that most battles are fought with the always-great combo of hy-
perviolence and foul language. But “Bullet-
storm” goes the extra mile. 
  The storyline is like a grindhouse mov-
ie on meth, with drunk rocket crashes, a 
backtalking cyborg and Mechagodzilla. The 
gameplay also ditches cover tactics in favor of racking up points based on how awesome and depraved your kills are. Killing an enemy in midair nets you some points, but shooting 
that enemy in the balls racks up even more. 
  The game also features Anarchy mode, in 
which up to four players mow down waves of 
enemies racking up as many points as possi-
ble, similar to “Gears of War”’s Horde mode. 
  For the ﬁ  rst-person gearheads and the 
adrenaline junkies, “Bulletstorm” is like 
Christmas wrapped in the X Games delivered by Robert Rodriguez. 12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, march 3, 2011
Gamer Bait
  B
y the time you have read this column, I 
Gamer Bait
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistOn vacation, rejuvenate your game collection
Local meditation center  a place to calm an uneasy mind
 By ROBERT IMFELD
 avenue contributing writer
 
  A number of meditation centers 
call Gainesville home. And as medi-
tation becomes more popular as a 
way to ward off stress, the Avenue wanted to ﬁ  nd out the story behind a few of the centers in town. 
  This is the ﬁ  rst installment in a 
series of three.
  The Tibetan Meditation Center, 
tucked away in a forested neighbor-hood, is just a one-story, ordinary-
looking house. At ﬁ  rst glance, you’d 
never guess it was anything special. Lawn tools litter the front porch, and a blanket of leaves serve as the 
driveway. Look a little closer, though, 
and you’ll realize something is dif-ferent. Colorful banners — splashes of blue, red and yellow — hang just below the roof. Through the window, you can catch glimpses of golden, 
round statues. A dog barks. The res-
ident dog, a little brown-and-white toy named Mickey, bounds out, ec-static at the presence of yet another 
human to love. 
  The center had another visitor on 
Saturday: Tibetan Buddhism teach-
er Khenmo Trinlay Chödron Karuna, who’s there to hold a three-week 
program.
  Khenmo Trinlay, a former U.S. 
Army employee and a Wayne State 
University alumna, discovered Ti-
betan Buddhism in a bookstore in 
1990 and has since begun teaching classes — one being in Gainesville last weekend.
  Khenmo Trinlay broke down the 
meditation process.
  One can think of meditation as 
three parts, she said: view, medita-tion and action. The view is your ide-als and how you see the world. At 
the other end, the action is how you 
act in your daily life. Because your views and your actions often don’t mesh, meditation comes into play. Tibetan Buddhists use Deity yoga, 
in which you imagine yourself as an 
immortal being.
  “Let’s say it’s a deity associ-ated with compassion. So, become compassion in your imagination,” she said. “You rehearse then doing 
what the deity does. You go person 
to person and act compassionately. You take on the personality of that deity and, in that way, cultivate that 
quality.”
  Medical studies have proven the 
positive effects of her religion’s phi-
losophy.
  According to The New York Times, 
a study published in 2008 showed that when people heard the sounds of people suffering, people who meditated had stronger impulses in 
the part of the brain connected to 
empathy than people who did not meditate. Another study published in “Psychiatry Research: Neuroim-aging” in January showed that peo-
ple who meditated had increased 
gray matter in the area of the brain connected to learning and memory and reduced matter in the area re-
lating to anxiety and stress. People who did not meditate did not show 
similar changes. 
  “We’re Buddhas-in-training.
That’s how a Buddha acts, so we’re trying to make ourselves more into that ideal,” Khenmo Trinlay said.She asserts that just ﬁ  ve minutes a 
day of calm abiding meditation can 
help you because it’s important to calm the mind down. 
  “There’s a T-shirt — ‘Meditation: 
It’s not what you think.’ It’s about 
not thinking. And what I found with 
meditation is it changed my start-ing point, my set point,” she said. “And I would start living here” — she 
lowers her right hand a bit — “and 
then I could live here” — she lowers it some more — “I could live here”— she lowers it to her lap. “And it was a long way to anger or agitation or 
whatever. Meditation can distance 
you from that point where you’re un-comfortable.”
  For more about Khenmo Trinlay, 
visit www.alligator.org/the_avenue.  GA Tech alumnus’ novel underlines college experience
  By EUGENIO TORRENS
 avenue contributing writer
 
  “…How liberated college students are, holding privileges 
of adulthood minus the constraints ….”
  Bill Chastain, a Georgia Institute of Technology alumnus, 
explored this notion in his novel “Peachtree Corvette Club.” 
The book follows character Truman Forbes during his fall 
1977  semester at Georgia Tech in Atlanta. Chastain, who 
majored in industrial management at the school, afﬁ  rmed 
he is part of the inspiration for Forbes, but he said the char-
acters and exploits were a combination of truth and exag-geration. 
  Chastain is a former “Tampa Tribune” journalist and 
current writer for MLB.com. He’s written a slew of nonﬁ  c-tion sports books in addition to his ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ctional work, “The Streak.”
  “Peachtree Corvette Club” is endearing because of 
Forbes’ inevitable pull as the protagonist. Recently separat-
ed from his girlfriend, Lisa Southall, Forbes has a hard time 
dealing with the single life and is determined to change his personality.
  Fueled by his fraternity brothers and others, Forbes em-
braces the roll-with-the-punches mentality his looser com-rades exude. 
  “I was in a fraternity, and there was just always guys doing 
creative things,” Chastain said. “I always wanted to write a book about the college experience. I think most any ﬁ  ction is going to have some of your experiences in there.”
  He said he and Forbes shared the need to bust loose — 
the need to appreciate college and all of its idiosyncrasies 
despite hardships stemming from academics, extracurricular 
activities, whatever. 
  Forbes, an avid student, deviates from the classroom once 
he starts hanging out with his brothers more, constantly guz-
zling Budweiser and getting ripped. 
His study habits get worse once Forbes meets Paige Ku-
pryn — a girl who’s the antithesis of Southall. 
And, through the sexually charged yet equally perceptive 
Kupryn, Forbes’s ideals on women are forever changed.
  Whether he is smoking doobies, fornicating without a sec-ond thought or risking expulsion, Forbes confesses his new “what-the-fuck” attitude leads to “the most fun I’d ever had 
at school.”
  That’s part of what makes the book such a gripping read 
— living in that moment now. As a college student, it’s easy to 
empathize with Forbes — even if his story takes place on the 
Georgia Tech campus 34 years ago. 
  “Truman is kind of the every-man for college life,” Chastain 
said. 
“A lot of times it was hard for me to unwind, and I think I 
could have smelled the roses a little bit more. Don’t get me wrong. I had a blast there. I was at my best then, although you evolve over your life.”
  Filled with dirty jokes, explicit sex scenes, f-bombs and 
“Animal House”-like college pranks, “Peachtree Corvette Club” is sure to be an enticing read that provides the reader a peek at college life decades ago. 
At the same time, it forces the reader to apply Forbes’ 
  mindset to college in the present and consequently ask the 
simple question: “What the fuck?” book review 
“We’re Buddhas-in-training. 
That’s how a Buddha acts, so we’re trying to make ourselves more into that ideal. Meditation can distance you from that point where you’re uncomfortable.”
Khenmo Trinlay
Tibetan Buddhism teacherIn Tibetan Buddhism, deity goodwill mimicked Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , MARCH 3, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$425 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
The Landings. 
All-Inclusive 3/3 ONLY $439
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive 2, 3 & 4 bedroom suites
***Starting @ $405***
Available for summer move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
352.373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroomAll inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-21/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2        2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 Tranquility 500 sqft Only $489-559
IMM Lease $500 rent credit
w/wrap lease rent credit & NO MIFees
Limited Time! 352.376.1248
4-20-11-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
2/2.5 TH •  1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUF.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1600
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-4-11-30-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
No move in fees and $500 off March!
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-15-11-34-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    3-24-11-40-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-
11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 
15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-
yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
3-15-11-24-2
Condominiums 2 & 4 Bedrooms now or 
summer and fall. Popular locations such as 
CountrySide, Southwest and Shands area. 
Call for details Bristol Park Realty 352 367 
2669 Bristolparkrealty.com   3-14-11-21-2
3/2 Available Fall!
4 Blocks to UF
***48 Hour Special***
352-371-7777                      3-4-11-20-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com3-15-11-19-2
House for rent - 3/2, 1618 sq. ft. in NW GNV. 
10 mins to campus or downtown. Excellent 
condition, lots of upgrades. $1050/mo with 
1-yr lease. For info, application or pictures: 
lmallicoat@live.com or 386-972-9440.   4-5-
11-30-2
www.10houses.com2 & 3 bd HOUSES for Aug. 1Cent H/AC, W/D, quiet areasBike to UF352-316-0154 or nancy@10houses.com    3-4-11-12-2Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
*FIND THE PERFECT APT*
100+ Floorplans! Skip the Bus! Walk to Class!
Free GATORNET–Fastest Internet in town!For more info: www.ForRentNearUF.com   3-25-20-2
Downtown garage/studio apt, off-street
parking, privacy. Behind Hippodrome, on 
bus lines. $420/mo, 1st, last and sec.
Call 352 373-6551, leave message.
3-4-9-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
3-18-11-10-2
3BR/2BA, 1940sq.ft. Quiet neighborhood. 
1.5 miles from U.F. Large fenced yard, wood 
floors, 2 car garage, and sun room. Available 
5/1. $1100/month. 3936 SW 3rd Ave. 352-
359-1270    3-25-11-15-2
Bellaproperties.net/Quiet Graduate 
Community
Luxury Spacious 2/2 and 2/1 with Loft/Must 
See/Starting at $283/Bedroom/Available 
August 2011/Call Today (352) 335-5424   
3-3-11-4-2
Large 1/1 in quiet neighborhood next to 
Oaks Mall. Walk to shops, bus routes, cafes. 
Screened porch, lots of storage. Move in by 
4/1 get one month free. 1 yr lease minimum. 
Discount for longer leases. Rent $500/mo. 
call 305-992-2832 or pazos.lu@gmail.com   
3-22-11-10-2
1BR/1BA, 5 blocks from Shands & UF. Quiet 
complex, parking, walk-in closet, W/D. $550/
mo. Call 317-2642 or 371-9520    3-23-11-
10-2
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
After Spring Break,
there are less than 6 weeks 
left in the semester!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
One bedroom available in a 4/4. $480 + 
utilities. pet friendly. great roomates! The 
Woodlands Call 863-303-3359   3-4-5-3
$325 Summer Sublease May-July for 
Gainesville Place Apartments.1/1 in a 4/4, 
Comes fully furnished with washer and dryer, 
utilities included $325! Many bus routes.
allison.lynch@yahoo.com    3-21-11-7-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 poolside condo at Countryside. Easy com-
mute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, 
W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. nukken1@
aol.com Text 850 585 4405, 386 676 9703
3-16-11-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
We offer unlimited wireless prepaid plan 
starting at $40/month.We flash phones to 
metroPCS.We fix phones too. Call us today 
at:(352)356-8615.Visit our
website:http://infinitemobile.net     3-4-3-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: 
surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
3-31-10-38-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $799904 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
16, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...
Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!
Call Gary at 352-682-8838,
email dlimotors@yahoo.com or
stop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-
12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
3-18-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
3-16-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
TECH SUPPORT
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
NETWORK ASST
SALES CONSULTANTS
CEO ASSISTANT
Full time positions.
Send resume to hr@gleim.com
www.gleim.com         3-14-11-10-14
A personal assistant for an executive po-
sition is needed urgently. Send resumes to 
alfrdsmt6@aol.com for immediate consider -
ation.    3-3-11-12-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring for Spring Semester
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Bonus
Great Resume Builder
(352)-392-2908 Ext: 105
720 S.W. 2nd Ave Suite 156
3-4-11-11-14
Crime Prevention Security Systems seeks 
sales consultants for Gainesville & Ocala.  
Must have reliable transportation. BG Check 
and Drug Test Required. Fax resume to 352-
376-9236 or e-mail info@cpss.net.   3-3-11-
10-14
Earn $1000 to $3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.AdCarDriver.com    3-25-11-20-14
Experienced swim lesson instructor needed 
for local program. Part time hrs either in mornings or late afternoons. Please email resume with lesson experience and 3 refer-ences to jwilby@cox.net   3-16-11-10-14
Great deal!
Brand new home, perfect for college student, 
quiet community. 3 bed, two bath. Wont last. 699/mo Call 904-992-0141    3-18-11-10-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Project Manager/Account Director wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   3-14-11-7-14
Busy couple in need of dog sitting for a friendly dalmatian as well as light household chores. Approx. 15 hrs a wk. Please email letter / brief resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com with references.    3-3-5-14SUMMER JOBS:
Recreation Camp Counselors/Supervisors 
for summer recreation program 6/13/11-
8/05/11 for children ages 5-14.  WSI/Lifeguard and Maintenance Aides (5/11-9/11).  Exp desirable.  City of Plantation 
(west of Ft Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave, 
Plantation, FL  33317 or www.plantation.org 
to download application.   3-4-11-5-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN 
or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or 
send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Nanny for 2-year-old girl needed. Must be 
available full time starting in May and part 
time starting in Sept (Mon-Thurs, 12-6). 
Childcare experience and references re-
quired. Email resume to
nannyingville@gmail.com.    3-4-11-4-14
Lifeguard-Certification Required
$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.
State Mental Hlth Treatment Fac
Call Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-
18-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT 15-40 hrs/wk - M-F, 
9am-6pm. $7.25/hr. Excellent Word, typing, 
internet & Excel skills. Indicate available 
hours, major, graduating semester.
OMA.office@yahoo.com   3-14-11-5-14
2 LOT TECHS for busy motorsports dealer -
ship. Requires cleaning, loading, unloading 
& operating machines, building maintenance 
& light mechanical. Valid driver license req. 
Apply  in person at Polaris of Gainesville 
12556 NW US Hwy 441    3-4-4-14
The Village, an upscale retirement commu-
nity, is seeking a full-time Nurse Manager. The ideal candidate will have the following 
skills / experience:
- Current and valid license in the State of 
Florida as an RN
- Experience with Memory Support- One to three years experience in a geriatric 
setting
- One to three years management experi -
ence- Excellent interpersonal skills
-Please see www.thevillageonline.com/jobs 
for more information!      3-28-11-14-14
MULCHING, PRUNING & MOWINGDaytime assistance needed for gardening. Flexible hours. $12/hr. Located north of Hwy Patrol Station. Email resume to:jaythaw@bellsouth.net    3-15-11-4-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.comthen call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
need performance credit? 5$ student tickets 
for 'Nightingale and the Rose' at the HIPP, 
March 7, 7.30 pm, 352.375.4477   3-4-11-
5-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
French tutor
Fluent and very affordable
Grammar, conversation, vocabulary
Contact Ben Schwartz at (860)593-9967     
3-16-1-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696
3-31-20-15
HORSE BOARDING
Watermelon Pond, trails, training, privacy, open stall. $325/mo. 330-329-8834 or chriswriterbuerki@gmail.com   3-15-11-10-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Sports
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n FLORIDA WILL TAKE ON 
ARKANSAS TODAY AT 1 P.M.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
Every week, coach Amanda 
Butler plasters the Gators’ practice 
facility with reminders.  On the 
door to the training room and again 
as you enter the gym, even posted 
on the walls under the baskets, are 
signs with the week’s emphasis. 
Recently, it was “Obsessed,” but 
now the Florida women’s basket-
ball team has developed something 
that can’t be cultivated in practice. 
The Gators closed their regu-
lar-season schedule on their high-
est note — a three-game winning 
streak, including two upsets against 
Vanderbilt and No. 22 Georgia — 
and are playing with a different de-meanor that’s easily recognizable in 
their play. 
“You can just never underes-
timate how powerful confidence 
is,” Butler said. “There’s a cumula-tive effect there with our team that 
I think you can’t underestimate. 
We’ve experienced so many disap-
pointing losses. To finally be turn-
ing those around in our favor … I 
think feels so good for them.”
With the start of the Southeast-
ern Conference Tournament today, that newfound poise couldn’t have 
come at a better time. In a rematch of the opening of the conference 
schedule, the first game of the tour -
nament features No. 8 seed Florida (17-13, 7-9 SEC) taking on No. 9 seed Arkansas (18-10, 6-10 SEC) at 
1 p.m. in Nashville, Tenn.The Gators defeated the then-
No. 22 Razorbacks 64-53 on Jan. 2, and Butler said that victory would hopefully add to her team’s ever-
growing belief in itself heading into 
the second showdown.
“We played pretty well against 
them, and that’s how we started the 
SEC season,” Butler said. 
Deana Allen, Ndidi Madu and 
Jennifer George all scored in double 
digits against the Razorbacks, and Lanita Bartley and Jaterra Bonds 
were one away with nine points. 
What worked then — contribu-
tions from all over the floor — is 
what’s working for Florida now. 
UF had a different leading scor -
er, and multiple players contribut-
ing, in each of its last three games. 
Bartley led with 23 points against 
Mississippi State, but George had 
21 and Bonds added 11. Versus 
Vanderbilt, guard Jordan Jones 
GATORS IN THE NBA ONLINE TEEING OFF WITH ANTHONY CHIANG
n Corey Brewer is nearing an agreement to 
sign with the Dallas Mavericks, multiple media 
outlets are reporting. ... Al Horford (31 points, 16 rebounds) outplayed Joakim Noah (13 points, 12 rebounds) as the Hawks beat the Bulls 83-80 on Wednesday night.n Check out alligatorSports.org for all 
our latest stories, podcasts and video 
shows. You can also subscribe to our multimedia endeavors on iTunes and follow us on Twitter (@alligatorSports).n Yankees first baseman Mark Teixeira fired superagent Scott Boras on 
Wednesday. Apparently the five-year, $180 million deal just wasn’t enough. I mean, Teixera does have three children to feed. ... I almost feel forced to write something about the lunatic we have all become enchanted with, Char -
lie Sheen, here. So, there you go. Saj Guevara / Alligator
Florida coach Amanda Butler has the Gators playing with a different demeanor following their three-game winning streak to close the regular season. UF begins SEC Tournament play today vs. Arkansas.
UF’s confidence peaking as SEC Tournament begins
See W-HOOPS, PAGe 18
When I got back from Vietnam 
at age 22, I worked for Jimmy Hoffa’s Teamsters. I delivered 
appliances for Sears throughout the five boroughs of New York. 
I earned a buck, but I gambled.I needed an outlet to bet, so one of the 
guys I worked with hooked me up with his brother, Vinny. He was the real deal. 
Vinny did a stretch for a big wise guy 
from Arthur Avenue, an Italian enclave near the Bronx zoo. Angelo was the “boss of bosses.” In the Bronx, all bookies kicked back cash to Angelo. 
After Vinny did Angelo’s “bit,” An-
gelo hooked up Vinny with three “num-ber shops” in Harlem so he could earn. He bought Vinny a $200,000 house in Westchester. In 1978, 200 large was real money .  
I’d settle up with 
Vinny weekly . As Angelo’s runner, he got 50 percent of 
my losses. Runners 
bring in business for bookmakers, so they work off per -
centage.   
Besides being a 
Bronx Don, Angelo 
owned a restaurant, Michael’s, and a huge discothèque in New Rochelle. 
Another one of Angelo’s runners, Joe, 
lived above the restaurant. To make ends meet, he also played guitar in Angelo’s restaurant Friday and Saturday nights. Legal rackets pay off in the end
Bill O’Connor
Confessions of a 
New York Bookie
sports@alligator.orgUF MeN’S BASKeTBALL
By GReG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
Although Florida’s second half against 
Alabama on Tuesday clinched a share of 
the regular-season Southeastern Confer -
ence title, it may hold an even greater sig-
nificance. 
In turning a 30-30 halftime tie into a 
78-51 romp, the Gators flashed the type of potential that led to a No. 9 preseason ranking and could make them a difficult out in the NCAA Tournament. 
Florida performed at an incredible lev-
el on offense and defense after the break, shooting 69.2 percent — the Gators’ best mark of the season — and holding Ala-bama to 28.1 percent from the field.
“The second half was our fullest poten-tial,” senior forward Alex Tyus said. “I felt like we played fantastic. And if we can do that for 40 minutes on a consistent basis, 
we’ll be great.”
“If we play the way we can play, up 
to our potential, I think we can beat any-
body,” senior forward Chandler Parsons 
said.
UF demonstrated the 
type of inside-out attack coach Billy Donovan has sought to establish all 
season, scoring 18 points 
from beyond the arc and 22 more in the paint in 
the final 20 minutes.  
The Gators even recorded a 6-to-1 as-
sist to turnover ratio and outrebounded the Crimson Tide 19-13, slowly increas-Gators flash full potential
Tyus
See HOOPS, PAGe 19See BILL, PAGe 18“There’s a cumulative ef -
fect there with our team 
that I think you can’t 
underestimate. We’ve ex-
perienced so many disap-
pointing losses. To finally 
be turning those around in 
our favor … I think feels so 
good for them.”
Amanda Butler
UF women’s basketball coach18, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011
Florida’s recent success keyed by balanced scoring, staunch defense
sparked Florida with 16 points, while Bartley 
went for 15 and center Azania Stewart added 
14. Then, in the Georgia game, Bonds was the 
top dog with 22 points, Jones had 18 and Al-
len scored 10. 
“It’s a tremendous advantage because it 
makes it really difficult for our opponents to figure out which way to attack us,” But-ler said, while adding that it also boosts the 
team’s total confidence. “There’s not just one 
person that’s feeling like, ‘I’ve got to play great or we’re not going to win.’” 
In addition to the balanced offense, the 
Gators have played exceptional defense 
down the stretch, something Butler said was 
a major factor in their recent wins and their 
improved mindset.  
Florida has allowed more than 70 points 
just twice in its last six games — once in the 74-71 victory over Georgia and again in the 
double-overtime loss to 
Vanderbilt — and held the SEC’s top offense, Tennes-
see, to just 61. 
The defense, Butler said, 
was the reason the team 
bounced back from a bru-
tal stretch of eight losses in 
10 games. 
“Finally, we were able to cross the thresh-old,” Butler said. “We were just knocking on the door, but we finally kicked the door 
down.”
Now, it’s tournament time, and there are 
new obstacles in the Gators’ path, beginning with Arkansas.
And Florida appears more than ready. “We’re excited about the chance to go out 
and compete feeling good about ourselves,” Butler said. “Hopefully there’s some magic 
left in Nashville.”W-HOOPS , from page 17
He’d stroll, strum and serenade din-
ers with Italian songs.
One Saturday night, before the 
restaurant got busy , Angelo, Joe and Vinny were eating pasta at the booth in the corner reserved for the boss. 
The waiter tells Joe, “Hey , Joe, 
you got a phone call.”
Joe wipes the napkin across his 
mouth and walks to the phone.
“What are you, some kind of as-
shole? Up in your mother’s ****,” he screams and slams the receiver onto the cradle.
He returns to his meal, steaming.  “What the hell was that all 
about?” Angelo asks. 
“Some f****** asshole telling me 
he’s Robert De Niro, and he wants to put me in a movie. Like I ain’t got enough f****** problems without some asshole breaking my balls.” 
Joe returns his napkin to his lap 
and re-grips his fork.
“Joe, phone call again,” the wait-
er says.
“Jesus Christ. I can’t believe this shit. I’ve gotta work tonight, and I can’t even eat in peace.”
Joe retraces his steps to the up-
side-down receiver. 
“What are you, some kind of a 
sick bastard? I swear to Christ, if you were here in front of me, I’d rip your f****** throat out. What did I tell you before? Up in your mother’s ****.”
Down slams the phone again as 
Joe returns to the table, 
“What a f****** asshole. Can you 
believe this guy? Did one of you two 
guys put this asshole up to this shit? 
Bobby De Niro, I’m up to my ass in debt. I’m working two jobs trying to earn, keep my head above wa-ter, and some asshole’s got nothing better to do than break my f****** balls.”
Angelo and Vinny swig, laugh 
then hoist their wineglasses.
“Salute, Joe Pesci, movie star.”Thirty minutes later, the door 
opens and in walks Robert De Niro. Celebrated smirk chiseled in place, he approaches Joe’s table and ex-tends his hand. 
“Hey , I’m Bobby De Niro. I know we had a misunderstanding on the phone, but I really want you in a movie I’m making.” 
Angelo ignores Joe.“Oh my God, Bobby De Niro. Sit 
down, mangia, mangia. Hey, Mario, bring a plate for Mr. De Niro.” 
Angelo pats the red-velvet seat 
with a Rolexed wrist and diamond-
ringed fingers: “Sit here, Bobby . 
Have a little vino.” 
De Niro explains that he saw a 
bit part Pesci shot with Danny Aiel-lo. He thought he’d be perfect for a minor part in his latest film, “Raging Bull.” The movie’s being shot in the neighborhood’s Mt. Carmel Gym where Jake LaMotta, who the story 
is based on, trained. 
After dinner and drinks, Angelo 
insists the four visit his discothèque, 
“Rings.” They arrive in New Ro-chelle after midnight and grab four stools at one of three circular bars. 
After a few belts, De Niro stares 
out at the crowded dance floor. He sees a pretty young blonde gyrating 
beneath the strobe lights. He tells 
Angelo the girl’s a dead ringer for young Vikki LaMotta, Jake’s wife. Angelo tells Vinny , “Have the 
young lady join us at the bar.”
The 17-year-old girl, Cathy Mori-
arty, gets a break.
She goes on to stardom in Scors-
ese’s monumental masterpiece, “Raging Bull.”
n  n  n
Joe devours the script. He con-
vinces De Niro to let him play the major role of LaMotta’s brother, Joey. 
As Sam Spade said when he 
stared at the Maltese Falcon, this is “the stuff that dreams are made of.”  
Joe Pesci skyrockets from “wan-
nabe wise-guy” to film legend in roles such as, “Casino,” “Goodfel-las” and “My Cousin Vinny .” 
Primarily , Pesci plays himself, 
or guys he admired all his life. One caveat: Once you work for Angelo, you always work for Angelo. 
Angelo relocates to Hollywood 
to protect his “investment.”
He partners a production com-
pany with Walter Matthau, who, fortunately for Angelo and unfortu-nately for Matthau, is a compulsive gambler. 
n  n  n                             
Vinny tells me years later:“Angelo’s making a fortune. He 
never uses his own money to pro-duce a film. He overcharges the in-vestors millions in production costs. This way, whatever happens at the box office, they come out ahead. The sweetest racket he ever had.”  
n  n  n                               
Talk about sweet rackets: Three 
years after the worst financial crisis ever perpetuated by fraud on the American people, not a single finan-cial executive has gone to jail. An-gelo would have admired that.
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam 
veteran, former Bronx firefighter and 
pub and restaurant owner. O’Connor 
is currently a journalism major at UF and a standup comic. The irreverent and acerbic O’Connor performs free standup around Gainesville.
BILL , from page 17Women's
Bask etballing their lead throughout the half 
before taking their biggest edge on the game’s final basket. 
“We played special in the sec-
ond half,” Donovan said. “We put together a half there that was re-
ally incredible.”
According to senior center Ver -
non Macklin, the change was due to little more than simply execut-
ing plays and getting the ball in-side. 
The explanation seems simple, 
but engineering a repeat perfor -
mance could still prove to be a challenge. 
Donovan knows his team is tal-
ented and experienced, yet he ac-knowledged that it has struggled to play consistently from one pe-riod to the next. 
In 14 of the Gators’ 29 games 
this season, they 
have outscored 
their opponents in one half and been outscored in the other. 
“The one thing 
that I’ve battled and struggled with ... is I see signs and glimpses of really special,” Donovan said. “You’re always trying to pull that out of them and trying to get them 
to do that more consistently. And 
it’s really hard, because if I had what it was that I could get them to do that, I would do it all the time.”
Donovan has consistently rein-
forced the principle of competitive maturity throughout the season, and his team finally appears to be getting the message. 
“We’ve just got to take it one 
game at a time and not get cocky,” 
Parsons said. “Not get a big head, 
keep running our stuff, keep lis-tening to coach Donovan and keep being the hardest-working team in the country.”
Whether they can carry through 
on those points, however, remains to be seen.THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
alligatorSports Southeastern Conference Power Poll
1 5
2 6
3
4 8109
7 11
12Mississippi (18-12, 6-9 SEC)
The poor man’s Devan Downey 
(Chris Warren) gets one ﬁ  nal chance 
to lead an atrocious team to an aver-
age win.
Kentucky (21-8, 9-6 SEC)
Despite early hype, talent and expec-
tations, the Wildcats, like “Inception” at the Oscars, have quietly become underrated.
Alabama (19-10, 11-4 SEC)The SEC basketball version of James Franco. Done some decent stuff, but picked a terrible time to have a lousy week.South Carolina  (14-13, 5-9 SEC)
In the last three games, Bruce El-lington is 7 of 34 from the ﬁ  eld. The kid apparently didn’t listen to Jiminy Cricket, because he has no con-science.
Mississippi State (16-13, 8-7 SEC)  
As ﬁ  ckle as they come
after losing to LSU then winning in 
Tennessee. This team is more
frustrating than the Matrix sequels.Vanderbilt (21-8, 9-6 SEC)
In the pole position of the cluster cluck 
of SEC East teams vying for a bye in 
the conference tournament.
Arkansas  (18-11, 7-8 SEC)
Note: Analysis for teams ranked 
eighth or lower is practically the same. They’ll occasionally knock on the door, but no one takes a tail whoopin’ like these squads.Auburn (10-19, 3-12 SEC)
In the words of adored alum Charles 
Barkley, this team is “turrible.”
LSU (11-19, 3-12 SEC)
Undermanned. Overwhelmed. Sad.Tennessee (17-12, 7-7 SEC) 
Middle of the pack this year. On a brighter note, freshman Tobias Harris (14.3 points, 7.6 rebounds per game) has become America’s most beloved Tobias since Arrested Development’s 
jorts-clad never-nude.Georgia (20-9, 9-6 SEC)
Similar to LeBron’s 3 Live Crew. 
They beat the teams they should, but 
mostly lose to teams as good as or 
better than them.Florida  (23-6, 12-3 SEC)
DJ Khaled may have said it ﬁ  rst, but Charlie Sheen truly made it gangsta. Florida basketball is, “Uh, winning.”
Alabama
The SEC basketball version of James 
week.
Donovan hoping Gators carry strong second half vs. ‘Bama into postseason
HOOPS , from page 17
Jesse Simonton and Rosa  Taveras / Alligator StaffMen's
Bask etballBy ALLISON BANKO 
Alligator Writer 
 
Before each practice, a gymnast steps in 
front of the team with a quote and a word of 
the day.
The choice for Wednesday’s practice was 
“commitment.” 
The gymnasts said it together as they 
clapped their arms in a Gator chomp, then moved on to begin practice.
Despite its first loss of the season against 
Arkansas, Florida has maintained its No. 1 ranking, refocused and committed to finish-ing the regular season on a high note Friday against Utah. 
The Gators’ first step was returning to 
their normal routine in the gym — something that hasn’t been an option recently.
The team finally moved back to its usual 
training schedule of four practices per week, which had been reduced to two when the team competed in three meets in eight days.
“We finally feel like we’ve had a couple of 
days to be able to train in the gym,” UF coach Rhonda Faehn said. “We feel like we’re a little 
bit more on track.”
This week, Florida has had time to scrim-
mage in the gym, as per usual before all of the 
recent road meets.Faehn said the blemish the Razorbacks left 
lit a fire under the Gators. 
“It made them angry,” Faehn said. “I think 
it fueled them quite a bit.” 
Sophomore Marissa King said the gym-
nasts have been paying extra attention to the polish and detail of their routines.
“We just made a lot of little mistakes that 
all completely added up,” she said.  “Where instead of starting off strong and continuing throughout the whole competition, we kind of dropped.” 
A major goal Friday will be setting the 
right tone from the get-go. 
Before the Gators’ first 
routine against Arkansas, their warm-ups weren’t on point — a sign things were heading south.  
“We want to challenge the athletes on 
having a good, strong warm-up ... and carry-ing that energy on throughout the rest of the competition,” Faehn said. 
If the rest of the season has been any indi-
cator, the Gators are capable of plenty. 
Despite the loss, Florida still sits pretty 
atop the rankings.
“Hopefully we can just realize that we 
can’t get cocky,” King said. “We can’t think, ‘Oh we’re No. 1,’ and just drop and slack.”20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore Marissa King and the Gators gymnastics team retained their No. 1 
national ranking despite suffering their first loss of the season Friday at Arkansas.
Gators staying focused despite first loss of season
Gymnastics