We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 15 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida guard 
Erving Walker 
(right) missed two 
free throws late in 
regulation but sank 
a 30-footer, send -
ing the game into 
double overtime, 
when UF pulled 
away for the win.
See Story, Page 14.n GAINESVILLE FACES AN $8.3 MILLION 
DEFICIT IN THE UPCOMING BUDGET.
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
After a year marked by new innovations, bud-
get cuts, hot-button issues and a national standoff 
between the city and a controversial local church, 
Gainesville has much to look forward to in the up-coming year, Mayor Craig Lowe said in his address Tuesday.
In his first State of the City address, held at the 
Hippodrome State Theatre, Lowe praised the com-munity for its character and its resilience in the face of what he described as “tough choices.”  
“The obstacles of the past year were not easy to 
overcome,” Lowe said. “But we addressed them head on and moved forward because we are committed to making this city great.”
Some of the toughest challenges facing Gainesville 
residents involve the tightening budget. 
Despite slicing $10 million in spending, the city 
is projected to run into an $8.3 million deficit for the 2011-12 fiscal budgets.
“It’s safe to say that the low-hanging fruit has been 
harvested,” Lowe said. “We were left with few choic-es for balancing the budget and none of them were easy.” 
Instead of dwelling on these figures, Lowe spent 
most of his time propping up his vision of a city 
saving taxpayers money, pointing to the city’s traf-
MIAMI — A grand piano recently 
showed up on a sandbar in Miami’s Bis-
cayne Bay, about 200 yards from condomin-iums on the shore.
The piano, which weighs at least 650 
pounds, was placed at the highest spot along the sandbar so it doesn’t get under -
water during high tide.
While officials aren’t sure how it got 
there, they know it won’t be going any-where unless it becomes a hazard to wildlife or boaters.
Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation 
Commission spokesman Jorge Pino says the agency is not responsible for moving such items. 
And, he adds, unless it becomes a navi-
gational hazard, the U.S. Coast Guard won’t get involved.
For now, the piano has become a fancy 
roost for seagulls.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSGrand piano shows up mysteriously on sandbar in Biscayne Bay
Partly 
cloudy
63/35FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 10
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 14
Jesse Lash / Alligator
Mayor Craig Lowe gives his State of the City address in the Hippodrome on Tuesday afternoon. Lowe addressed the city’s 
budget woes as well as future plans like Innovation Square and a bus rapid transit system.
Lowe praises city, says hard cuts loom
SEE CITY, PA gE 9
By ELIZABETH BEHRMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
The candidates for the next 
Student Body president have 
something to say about block tu-
ition.
Student Senate President Ben 
Meyers, a member of the Unite Party, and Progress Party Presi-
dent Dave Schneider formally 
announced Tuesday that they will be running for Student Body 
president.
Both candidates said their plat-
forms will focus heavily on the 
opposition of block tuition, 
which would charge stu-
dents a flat-rate tuition no matter 
the number of credit hours they SG presidential 
candidates namedAROUND g AINESVILLE
HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer 
Regional Transit System is trying to make 
a bigger impact on the Gainesville community 
by updating current programs for its passen-gers.
RTS is continuing its close work with UF 
by extending its Employee Bus Pass Program to more than 2,200 retired UF faculty and staff who live in the Gainesville area, according to  RTS spokesman Chip Skinner.
The program, which began in 2000, allows 
businesses and companies with more than 100 staff members to purchase year-round, unlim-ited passes for employees. The cost per indi-vidual with the program is $6.75. Individuals not on the program must pay $35 a month.
RTS is also continuing its environmentally conscious campaign by adding a decorative wrapping on its hybrid Ford Escape to make the public aware of its work. The car, with the image of vines sprawling from the gas cap, is used by RTS for employees to go to various meetings and public outreach events. Skinner said they are looking to buy more hybrids for the future.
“It shows that RTS and Gainesville are try-
ing to help the environment not only locally but globally,” he said.Bus pass program expands
SEE Sg, PA gE 9“RTS and Gainesville are trying 
to help the environment not only          
locally but globally.”
Chip Skinner
RTS spokesmanStudentGovernmentNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 15 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras FORECASTWHAT’S HAPPENING
Peace Corps Competitive 
Applicant Globe TalkToday, 6:30 p.m.Hub International CenterHave you ever thought of ap-plying to the Peace Corps? Ever wondered what it takes to be a competitive applicant? The answers are waiting for you at the first GlobeTalk of the spring semester. A panel of returned Peace Corps vol-unteers will be sharing their experiences and answering any questions you may have at the Competitive Applicant GlobeTalk.
Study in Europe this summer
Today, 4 p.m.
Turlington Hall 3312
Come enjoy pizza while learn-
ing about study abroad pro-grams in Krakow, Brussels and Salzburg. 
Meet faculty and students 
and get all the details about 
dates, cost and scholarships. Sponsored by the Center for European Studies.  For more 
info, call 392-8902.
RUB presents Ghost Hunter Jeff 
BelangerToday, 8 p.m.
Rion Ballroom
One of the most prolific para-
normal researchers today, Jeff has published a dozen books in six languages, including the best-seller “The World’s Most Haunted Places,” and is a series writer for the Travel Channel’s “Ghost Adventures.” Come see him speak about paranor -
mal investigations and the equipment they entail as well as how to start a group and present your findings.
Poker Tournament
Friday, 7 p.m.The VaultJoin Pledge 5 Foundation for its second-annual “Taking missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
STATE
Scott pulls back Fla. redis -
tricting amendments 
TALLAHASSEE — A spokes-
man for Gov. Rick Scott has con-firmed he quietly pulled back a request for federal approval of two new redistricting amend-ments to the Florida Constitu-tion.
Brian Huges on Tuesday said 
the new Republican governor acted just days after taking office Jan. 4 as part of his freeze on new state rules pending review by the new administration.
The Justice Department must 
approve election law changes to ensure they are not discrimina -
tory.
Supporters of the Fair Dis-
tricts amendments, which voters adopted in November, cried foul. Florida Democratic Party Chair -
man Rod Smith said the with-drawal was “shameful.”
Huges, though, said there 
will be plenty of time to get the amendments approved before redistricting is completed next year. 
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSIt Off for Charity” Poker Tournament. Play for free or donate $20 for a VIP wristband that gets you free wings and beer, a tourna-ment T-shirt, participation in the raffle and access to the band. Get $5 off if you do-nate your gently used cloth-ing at the door. All clothes will benefit St. Francis House and Goodwill.
Qualifying for SG Spring 2011 
ElectionFriday, Monday and Tuesday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.Reitz Union room 284You need your Gator 1 Card, or have a picture ID and know your UFID number. If you have any questions, email Amanda Griffin, su-pervisor of elections at elec-
tions@sg.ufl.edu. Student Body Election will be held Feb. 22 and 23.
Dance Marathon Spring 
RegistrationThrough Feb. 3Help make miracles hap-pen and register to dance for Dance Marathon 2011. Dancers do not need to be registered through or be part of an organization to par -
ticipate in this event. Visit Dance Marathon’s website at www.floridadm.org to register or make a donation.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-PARTLY
CLOUDY
63/35SUNNY
61/35SUNNY
66/40SUNNY
62/38SUNNY
68/44SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY TODAY
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — Pleading for 
unity in a newly divided govern-
ment, President Barack Obama im-plored Democratic and Republican lawmakers to rally behind his vision 
of economic revival for an anxious 
nation, declaring in his State of the Union address Tuesday night: “We will move forward together or not at all.”
The president unveiled an agen-
da of carefully balanced political goals: a burst of spending on educa-tion, research, technology and trans-
portation to make the nation more 
competitive, alongside pledges, in the strongest terms of his presi-dency , to cut the deficit and smack down spending deemed wasteful to America. Yet he never explained how he’d pull that off or what spe-cifically would be cut.
Obama spoke to a television au-
dience in the millions and a Con-gress sobered by the assassination attempt against one if its own mem-bers, Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. Her seat sat empty, and many lawmak-ers of competing parties sat together in a show of support and civility . Yet differences were still evident, as when Democrats stood to applaud 
his comments on health care and tax 
cuts while Republicans next to them sat mute.
In his best chance of the year to 
connect with the country , Obama devoted most of his hour-long prime-time address to the economy , the issue that dominates concern in a nation still reeling from a monster recession — and the one that will shape his own political fortunes in the 2012 election.
Eager to show some budget 
toughness, Obama pledged to veto any bill with earmarks, the term 
used for lawmakers’ pet projects. 
House Speaker John Boehner and other Republicans applauded. But Obama’s promise drew a rebuke from his own party even before he spoke, as Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said the presi-dent had enough power and that plans to ban earmarks were “a lot of 
pretty talk.”
Obama’s proposals Tuesday 
night ranged across the scope of 
government: cutting the corporate tax, providing wireless services for almost the whole nation, consoli-dating government agencies and freezing most discretionary federal spending for the next five years. In 
the overarching theme of his speech, 
the president told the lawmakers: “The future is ours to win.”
In essence, Obama reset his agen-
da as he heads toward a re-election bid with less clout and limited time before the campaign consumes more attention.
The Senate’s Republican leader, 
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said the president had gotten the mes-sage from the November midterm 
elections and “changed the tone 
and the rhetoric from the first two years.”
Obama entered the House cham-
ber to prolonged applause, and to the unusual sight of Republicans and Democrats seated next to one 
another rather than on different 
sides of the center aisle. And he be-gan with a political grace note, tak-ing a moment to congratulate Boeh-ner, the new Republican speaker of the House.
Calling for a new day of coop-
eration, Obama said: “What comes 
of this moment will be determined 
not by whether we can sit together tonight but whether we can work together tomorrow.”
On a night typically known for 
its political theater, the lawmakers sometimes seemed subdued, as if still in the shadow of the Arizona shootings.
Many in both parties wore black-
and-white lapel ribbons, signifying the deaths in Tucson and the hopes of the survivors. Giffords’ husband was watching the speech from her bedside, as he held her hand. 
Halfway through his term, 
Obama stepped into this moment on the upswing, with a series of recent 
legislative wins in his pocket and 
praise from all corners for the way he responded to the shooting ram-
page in Arizona. But he confronts 
the political reality is that he must to lead a divided government for the first time, with more than half of all Americans disapproving of the way he is handling the economy.
Over his shoulder a reminder of 
the shift in power on Capitol Hill: Boehner, in the seat that had been 
held by Democratic Speaker Nancy 
Pelosi. In a speech with little focus on national security, Obama ap-peared to close the door on keeping any significant U.S. military pres-ence in Iraq beyond the end of the year. “This year, our civilians will 
forge a lasting partnership with the 
Iraqi people while we finish the job of bringing our troops out of Iraq,” the president said.
Obama: US will ‘move forward together or not at all’
AP Photo
President Obama is applauded by House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio 
and Vice President Joe Biden during the State of the Union address.
By CHELSEA HULL
Alligator Writer
Student Senators had a 
long discussion about labor 
rights during their meeting this week.
Senators passed a resolu-
tion Tuesday night urging Publix to support a code of 
conduct outlined by the Coali-tion of Immokalee Workers.“Justice is not 50 cents for a 
32-pound bucket of tomatoes,” 
said Senator Cassia Laham, who helped draft the resolu-
tion.
Oscar Otzoy, a member of 
the coalition, shared his per -
sonal experiences with the working conditions of the im-migrant farm workers. His 
testimony was translated by Mark Rodriguez.
“Our basic rights are not re-
spected,” Otzoy said. “We re-
ceive wages which are below 
the poverty level. All we want is for Publix to do the same 
thing that other companies 
have done.” 
Nine other food retailers, 
including McDonald’s, Sub-way and Whole Foods have 
signed similar agreements de-
manding better working con-ditions in their supply chains, 
according to the resolution.
Another resolution sup-
porting graduate assistants’ 
rights to have a labor union achieved almost unanimous 
consent. 
The resolution was writ-
ten in response to recently 
introduced Florida legislation 
amending union requirements which, if passed, would invali-
date the current union, Gradu-ate Assistants United.
“Graduate Assistants Unit-
ed represents the people who 
come out in the rain and teach 
our classes, grade our papers 
and ultimately help make our 
degrees as valuable as they are,” said former Progress Par -
ty Sen. Dave Schneider.
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
An estimate of Florida’s population conducted by a UF re-
search center was accurate within two tenths of a percent in 
comparison with the actual U.S. Census Bureau’s counts re-leased for 2010. 
The Bureau of Economic and Business Research, part of 
UF’s Warrington College of Business Administration, found Florida’s population to be 18,772,352, only a slight difference to the census’s count of 18,801,310 people. 
According to Stanley Smith, the bureau’s program director and UF economics professor, estimates in years past fell around 
percentage errors of 1.6 to 1.8 percent. This year’s difference is the lowest the bureau has ever reached.
“It validates our methodology,” Smith 
said. “It shows that what we’ve been doing has been very accurate, probably about as accurate as you can get.”
According to Smith, the bureau has a 
contract with the Florida Legislature to pro-duce population estimates throughout the 
state for distribution of state revenue sharing dollars and bud-geting purposes.
Collecting the data is a yearlong process that the bureau has 
been doing for more than 40 years to produce annual figures.
“It takes a lot of effort,” Smith said. “We have one person 
that works basically year-round on collecting data and corre-sponding with local areas. Then, I spend quite a bit of time as well on producing the estimates in certain times of the year. It takes a great deal of effort to come up with that.”
The bureau also produces population counts for cities and 
counties throughout the state, but those figures from the U.S. Census will not be released until February. Thus, the bureau’s accuracy in that area has not yet been calculated. 4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Progress Party President Dave Schneider speaks in favor 
of graduate assistants’ right to have a union at the Student Senate meeting on Tuesday night.
STUDENT GOVERNMENTSenators talk labor policies 
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
You’re probably not learning as 
much in college as you should be.
That’s what “Academically 
Adrift: Limited Learning on Col-
lege Campuses” suggests about students today. The book is a study of 2,300 students in four-year col-
leges, which found that 45 percent 
of students did not improve their learning skills by the end of soph-omore year. Thirty-two percent 
of students are not taking classes 
that require more than 40 pages of reading or 20 pages of writing per semester. 
Would that be the case at UF?
“It certainly would,” said Jeanna 
Mastrodicasa, assistant vice presi-
dent for student affairs.
The culprits, she said, are stu-
dents who enroll in classes with smaller course loads, favoring a high GPA over a challenge.
“Our students definitely pursue 
the path of least resistance,” she 
said.
But these trends aren’t new, 
Mastrodicasa said.
In a survey conducted by Student 
Experience in the Research Univer -
sity, researchers found that 46 per -
cent of UF students were spending 
more than 11 hours a week study-ing or working on homework, com-pared with 59 percent of students at other universities.
The same study found that 75 
percent of UF students spend more than 11 hours a week in classes or labs compared with 86 percent of students at other universities.
Those were compared with 30 
percent of UF students who said they spent more than six hours a week partying, as opposed to 22 percent of students who do the 
same at other universities.
Kevin Knudson, UF honors pro-
gram director, said he attributes the 
lack of learning to students who 
choose to use their first two years 
for review.
For example, a 
student who scored a five on his or her 
Advanced Place-
ment calculus test in high school 
might elect to take the same class in college as a review for an “easy A” 
or to prolong his or her stay. 
“College is fun, right? Students 
don’t want to leave early,” he said.
Andrew Daw, a freshman tak-
ing 13 credits this semester, said he can understand why other students 
might not be making educational gains. He pointed to easy general education electives and a sense of 
freedom for freshmen.
“You have the ability to be apa-
thetic,” he said.Study: UF students 
not learning much 
 THE COMPANY WANTS TO 
MAKE BRANDS HEALTHIER. 
By LEILA MILGRIM
Alligator Contributing Writer
Walmart is taking measures to 
make a healthier lifestyle more avail-
able to its customers.
CEO Bill Simon said that because 
Walmart has more than 140 mil-lion customers visit each week, it is “uniquely positioned to make a dif-ference” by making food healthier and cheaper.
First lady Michelle Obama joined 
forces with the company to formu-late a program Walmart will imple-ment over the next 10 years to en-courage shoppers to eat healthier.
Anne Mathews, research assis-
tant scientist in the department of food science and human nutrition at UF, was invited by Walmart to attend a teleconference discussing its new initiative. Mathews said by 
2015, Walmart plans to make signifi-
cant changes in its branded foods specifically.
She said Walmart pla`ns to elimi-
nate trans fats and reduce sugar and sodium from its products.
Mathews, a registered dietician, 
said she feels Walmart’s initiative is worthwhile. She said she hopes it can make a difference.
Walmart is focusing on making 
sure staple food items like canned goods, mixes, yogurts, drinks and bread are nutritional and healthier.
“In society today, families strug-gle to shop for easily prepared meals,” Mathews said. “So anything we can do to make easily accessed options healthier is great.”
The part of Walmart’s initiative 
that Mathews is most excited about is the company’s plan to lower the cost of fruits and vegetables.
“Small studies have shown that 
people don’t buy fruits and vegeta-bles because they are so expensive, and processed food items are cheap-er,” Mathews said. “If fruits and 
vegetables are more accessible to 
more people, to me that is the most important part of the initiative.”
Nineteen-year-old Johan Bueno 
said that by lowering the prices of healthy food items, Walmart will become a more appealing grocery store to people who feel they can’t afford to make a lifestyle change in.
“I feel like many people are 
forced to eat unhealthy because health food stores are so expensive, and then they feel like they can’t af-ford healthier options,” Bueno said. 
He said he thinks Walmart’s im-
age could improve substantially from this initiative if Walmart’s ad-vertising strategy promotes it well.
“Not only will this help out 
people who eat unhealthy foods, but it will also help people who eat healthy , like me, to save money on their grocery bills,” Bueno said.
Walmart launches national program to sell healthier foodUFResearc h
Smith
“Not only will this help out 
people who eat unhealthy 
foods, but it will also help 
people who eat healthy, 
like me, to save money on 
their grocery bills.”
Johan Bueno
Local shopperBusiness research bureau’s population estimate was spot onBY SKYLAR RAMSEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ideas to improve sustainability 
on college campuses were shared 
among students from seven differ -
ent universities at the first Florida 
Student Sustainability Summit on 
Tuesday.
The two-day event hosted 
by Gators Going Green kicked 
off with 25 students in the Reitz Union.
Taylor Cremo, the co-director 
of programming for Gators Go-ing Green, said the summit was a chance for student leaders around the state of Florida to come togeth-
er and discuss sustainability. 
Cremo said a greater push for 
change is created when students 
come together from many schools in Florida instead of just one cam-
pus. 
“Sustainability as a whole can 
only be achieved if it is a concerted 
effort,” she said. 
In addition to the develop-
ment of new ideas, the summit will address environmental policy proposals like the Student Green 
Energy Fund as it continues today, 
said Bailey Kilbourne, agency di-rector of Gators Going Green. The Student Green Energy 
Fund would impose a minimal fee 
to fund renewable energy projects 
on campus.
Some UF students are already 
coming up with new ideas for their action plan to help create a 
more sustainable campus. 
Mark Grafton, a marketing se-
nior with a minor in sustainability,  
helped start a new organization called Intellectual Decisions on 
Environmental Awareness Solu-
tions. 
The organization hopes to 
make a big impact with a new project called T-Totes. 
“We are building 
a bike-powered sew-ing machine right now,” Grafton said. 
The bike-pow-
ered sewing machine will be used to sew together old T-shirts to make reusable tote bags. 
Grafton would like to share his 
ideas with some of the other envi-ronmental organizations at UF. 
“I think it’d be cool to have the 
leaders of all the sustainable or -
ganizations here on campus talk-ing about what their doing and about their specific organization,” Grafton said.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Lynn Scarlett discusses future opportunities of green careers during a speech about “Conservation in an 
Era of Scarcity” to a group of students and faculty at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Tuesday night.  Scarlett is the former deputy secretary and chief operating officer of the U.S. Department of the Interior.
Students discuss sustainability practices at summit
n THE ALACHUA COUNTY 
COMMISSION WILL ASK SENATORS BILL NELSON AND MARCO RUBIO TO GET INVOLVED.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
The Alachua County Commission is 
frustrated about the Cabot-Koffers Super -
fund site clean up, so it may take its case to the nation’s capital.
“Help us,” Lee Pinkoson, chairman of 
the commission, said to Marion Turner, 
a liaison between the Commission and Washington D.C. 
Turner said that a decision about how 
the site will be cleaned up has been de-layed by the Environmental Protection Agency for more than a decade. 
He offered a solution. Turner suggested organizing a meeting 
where Gainesville, Alachua County and federal officials, namely Sens. Bill Nelson 
and Marco Rubio, can have the opportunity to sit down and discuss the 
Superfund cleanup with 
the EPA.
Former Alachua Coun-
ty Commissioner Penny Wheat said she thinks 
something needs to be 
done or the county’s water supply may be 
in jeopardy.“Your objective is to embarrass the 
hell out of the people in Washington who haven’t been doing a damn thing for a very long time,” Wheat said to the com-
missioners.
Commissioner Paula Delaney said that 
the Commission should have sat down 
with the EPA years ago.
“It does seem like we haven’t gotten 
anywhere,” she said.
“I do think it’s time to start chewing on 
people,”Commissioners may take cleanup case to Washington
Wheat
OnCampu sThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
144 TOTAL VOTES31% YES69% NOTuesday’s question: Should the state allow guns on college campuses?Today’s question: Did you watch the State of the Union address?
We anticipated most of the talking points and even 
the tone of the State of the Union address Tues-day night. Two things have caught us off guard, 
however. 
The first was the manner in which we had to watch the 
speech — on our computers and some of us from our homes. 
Our office lost power, and we used our limited resources to bring the paper together.
As surprising as the outage was, we were more taken 
aback by an overarching spirit of compromise in both 
President Obama’s speech and the Republican response as delivered by Rep. Paul Ryan. 
Both sides seemed to agree to cut government spending 
in many of the same places. 
They agreed that this is the time to act. This isn’t to say we didn’t see some pursed lips, near-
eyerolls or worried faces. 
However, we did notice several appeals from either 
side overlapping, most of which concern the economy and would, if executed correctly, help the American people.
Yet, as the President said, “What comes of this moment 
will be determined not by whether we can sit together to-night, but whether we can work together tomorrow.” 
For all his semi-funny jokes and awkward pauses, this 
rang true for us.
Obama laid out guidelines for what he would and 
would not concede in each topic he discussed, including 
government spending, health care and Social Security. 
He also guaranteed he would veto any bill on his desk 
marred by earmarks, a measure Majority Leader Harry 
Reid has already questioned. 
We’re ready to call the idea into question too, given the 
prominence of the practice, but we’re glad to see the presi-dent looking to both sides of the aisle for ideas to improve the country.
Perhaps the speech was more toned down and agree-
able because of the Tucson shootings, which the President addressed briefly in his introduction. 
With the spotlight turned to political rhetoric, many of 
the speech attendees will be under pressure to play nice  — at least in public. 
There’s also the possibility that Obama wants a way to 
say “it wasn’t me” if warranted legislation stalls. 
He’s set the tone for compromise, making it difficult to 
get egg on his face later this year.
For all the talk, Americans want results and action. 
What the president says is less important to us than 
what he and Congress accomplish. 
Even more vital than that are the results from their 
achievements, which, we hope, are new jobs. No matter 
which side of the aisle we sit on, college students every-
where want to know we will be able to find a job and sup-port ourselves after we take off that cap and gown and frame our diplomas.
We live in a results-based society where few benefit 
from merely trying. We must do, and so must our politi-cians. 
Otherwise, like other people failing to do their job and 
to produce the expected results, our leaders may find 
themselves out of work.State of Unity
Speech shows parties 
can reach compromise
Remakes pollute Hollywood magic
Within the next week, I will hear the phrase “the 
book was better.” While I usually agree if it’s a book I have read, I’ll be honest and say that unless 
it’s a hyped-up children’s series not involving vampires, or a trilogy directed by Peter Jackson, there are few books I’ve 
ever read that have film adaptations. I suppose that’s why 
some books get made into movies — so the stories they tell 
can be digested in less than two hours and I can get back to more important things, like choosing what combination of outerwear I want to lug around as the Florida weather covers every temperature and humidity level in the span of a day.
The adaptation of books to films makes sense from a 
business standpoint. Investment in the film industry is 
risky, but with potentially great rewards, including stand-
ing as a legacy engrained in the collective cultural mind. To 
this end, when going out on a limb and mashing together famous actors with a capable crew and director, it helps to have a story your audience already knows via a book. This makes sense.
The mentality also makes sense if you take it a step fur -
ther and look at the concept of the remake. Remember that old movie from the ’70s about a kid who goes to a candy 
factory and wins a grand prize because he has a pure heart? 
Let’s remake it and have Johnny Depp bounce around the screen like the love-child of Oscar Wilde and a drag queen. The people love him, and they can’t get enough feel-good kids’ movies. The remake is a safe venture because, like the book adaptations, you already have a sampling of the film’s potential success. Even if your movie is terrible, you can guarantee a core audience of original-version lovers who will put up with your butchery at least once. You will at 
least break even.
This results in rampant unoriginality in the entertain-
ment business.  We need to be more critical of how we spend 
our free time and what we decide to throw our money at.
Bad remakes are also happening with foreign films com-ing to the U.S. Original, beauti-
ful films get the “Hollywood treatment” and are made worse when re-written and shot for a 
U.S. audience.  It’s like scrubbing away any semblance of 
foreign culture to make the story more digestible. Among the myriad of vampire stories these past few years, there is an amazingly dark and mesmerizing foreign vampire film set in a suburb of Stockholm, Sweden, called “Let the Right One In.” All the violence happens off-screen, and it gives you shivers you’d forgotten you missed.  But it’s not in Eng-
lish, and therefore not good enough for a U.S. audience, so millions were spent re-shooting and changing it. Now you are left with “Let Me In,” an inferior movie.  
Remakes in entertainment have their successes, some 
most notably in television — look at The Office.  But re-
branding should annoy you.  With music, would you pay 
an equal amount to see an American Radiohead cover band as you would Radiohead themselves? The concept is ab-
surd. Why the film industry decides the message of a movie 
is untranslatable is beyond me. The music industry has no 
problem here. But I say this ignoring some differences. Dif-
ficulty is one. I could easily freestyle a pop song but couldn’t 
come up with an equivalent to “Gattaca” off the top of my 
head. The original movies coming out of Hollywood are the 
best they can come up with. No wonder there are so many re-makes.
In the end, I’d lay my chips with the quick re-makes over 
recent reality television. Some shows look like the casting directors closed their eyes, pointed to a few disorders in the DSM-IV , screened out everyone with a triple digit IQ and then made Teen Mom, Hoarders, Jersey Shore, et al. I just 
came up with a new show: a pregnant Jersey girl with a 
machismo boyfriend who hoards military memorabilia.  It 
will be called Grenades.
Wesley Campbell is a fifth-year English student. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.Wesley Campbell
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
To quote James Madison: “Americans 
have the right and advantage of being armed - unlike citizens of other coun-
tries whose governments are afraid to trust the people with arms.” On Tuesday , the Alligator published a letter regarding the Florida Sen-ate bill that would legalize concealed carry on campus. Most of the arguments presented in 
this letter, and by gun control advocates na-
tionwide, play upon common fears and mis-conceptions people hold about firearms and their place on college campuses. 
Letters like that one use scare tactics and 
ignore facts, envisioning a fictional campus where the threat of being shot is perpetual. And yet, there are 70 campuses in the U.S. which allow concealed carry , including all public universities in the state of Utah. To date, there are no recorded cases of any gun-related 
crime by a student with a lawfully attained 
concealed carry permit. 
The simple fact is that many gun critics are unaware of the im-portance of allowing citizens their right to arms.  Permitting citi-
zens to legally arm themselves is essential to maintaining the peace: In Florida, murder rates have dropped 26 percent after concealed carry permits began being issued in 1987. Washing-
ton, D.C., however, remains the most poignant 
example, where, with prohibitively strict gun laws up to 2008, the murder rate was almost five times the national average. The reason is that citizens with lawfully bought firearms are not the ones committing crimes; surveys of in-mates reported that 80 percent of their weap-ons came from family, friends, street purchases and other illegal sources. Despite regulations, criminals will find guns. One of the letters 
asked, “How am I supposed to defend myself 
against gun-toting individuals?” The answer 
is simple: Fire back.
Jacob Kupp is a UF student.
Concealed weapon carry not a threat to campus securityGuest column
Jacob Kupp
Speaking OutI commend Sarah Poser for a balanced article on the allow -
ing guns on campus in the Monday issue of the Alligator. 
However, Brian Malte’s quote, “The  more outrage there is, 
the more the gun lobby starts to retreat.” The gun lobby is com-
posed of the NRA and Second Amendment supporters. And, 
“Without a lot of protest, there is a chance the gun lobby could 
shove it through,” Malte said. 
Quite the contrary. Malte’s statement is deceptive. When-
ever the NRA  or mere gun owners show outrage over more 
proposed limits to gun ownership, the gun control lobby re-
treats. They are continually losing out with their agendas to 
place more  restrictions on gun ownership. The gun control 
lobby , including The Brady  Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence 
— a deceptive name for a major gun control organization — is 
notorious for quoting deceptive figures and statistics  about 
gun violence in their anti-gun propaganda. They exaggerate the figures about gun violence  to make it look like the misuse 
of firearms is actually worse than it actually is. I noticed that Kyle R. Mitchell used some of these deceptive numbers in his 
letter to the editor. The fact that the gun control lobby and its allies, such as the CDC, exaggerate the figures and are losing the battle over gun control can be verified from several sourc-
es including the NRA and Gun Owners of America. Like the 
majority in the gun control  lobby , Brian Malte is attempting to 
stir up trouble so more limits to private gun  ownership will be 
made into laws under the current Obama regime. These peo-
ple loathe and hate guns and the Second Amendment, often 
for no more of a reason than the fact guns simply exist. Don’t 
believe Malte’s false  statements. 
After thinking it over, do not lean  toward  the open carry 
of guns on Florida campuses. If guns were to be carried at all, 
besides those used by university police, concealed carry would 
be a better option. However, I know if Senate Bill 234 passes, 
the gun control supporters and those on the left would  have 
a fit and start making up claims about open  or concealed carry of guns. Some are already do-
ing so. I am neither a member of the NRA nor  Gun Owners of America. 
I don’t belong to the Tea Party. I am 
simply an American who believes in and  supports the 
Constitution as it is and as it was originally meant to be.  
People who apply for gun permits are required by state law to go through  gun training safety courses and to become familiar 
with the various requirements surrounding carrying a hand-
gun with a permit.
Permits are not issued willy-nilly to someone just be-
cause  they own a handgun or want to carry it either openly or 
concealed. These people have various  requirements that they 
must meet and abide by, including that said people must be 
21 or older. That in itself would rule out a majority of Florida 
college students acquiring such permits. Permits are not  issued 
to everyone. There are those who have been denied a permit due to a criminal past, drug use or mental instability.  On that 
note, there are about 165 million gun owners in the U.S. About 
40 million of the owners are military veterans and over six mil-lion are combat veterans. Florida has issued nearly two mil-
lion permits since adopting its concealed carry laws  in 1987, 
and it had more than 760,000 licensed permit holders as of Oct. 
31, 2010. How many of these gun owners have actually com-
mitted gun crimes or turned Florida or  the United States into 
the Wild West? I think a lot of the gun control supporters have watched  too much TV and too many movies. 
Besides  that, the vast majority of the millions of guns in this 
nation have never been  used in any sort of crime.  The private 
ownership of guns by Americans has even struck fear into our enemies past and present.   It is said that during World 
War II, the highest ranking admiral in the Imperial Japanese 
Navy, Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, believed any attempt 
by Japanese forces to invade the U.S. would fail because, ac-
cording to him,  there would be a rifle behind every blade of grass. This is one of the main reasons the U.S. has never been invaded by an enemy military force since the War of 1812.  
Contrary to what Nicole Iovine feels and stated in her letter to the editor, guns are not antiquated. They are still useful for self-defense, hunting, recreational target shooting or curio 
collecting.  She appears to lack a basic understanding of guns 
and seems to fear them, which is not uncommon seeing how 
many who fear guns get their ideas from an anti-gun media, 
the gun control lobby and movies or TV . Many who once feared 
guns overcame their fear by actually taking the time to learn by taking gun training and safety courses. If properly used, stored, maintained and treated with the proper respect, they are not 
the evil tools they have been  made out to be.  Sadly , some are 
misused, like in the cases of the Tucson shooter or the Virginia 
Tech shooting. 
These incidents should be examples as to why concealed 
carry should be allowed without restrictions. If there had been 
trained concealed carry gun owners in Tucson or at Virginia Tech, things would have turned out differently , and there would not have been as many people dead. Cops can’t read minds and 
can’t be everywhere at once, even though that seems to be a common  belief. It’s up to the individuals to defend themselves, 
their loved ones or those around them, no matter the form of 
self-defense. The Second Amendment to our great Constitu-
tion states that “the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.” The Second Amendment  is not  strictly 
referring  to law enforcement, security guards,  private security 
personnel or the military only . It states “the people.”  Period. 
And the Second Amendment it is not just referring to guns. I 
would like to know what part of “shall not be infringed” the 
gun control supporters and anti-gun politicians do not under -
stand. I also wonder what would happen if politicians or politi-
cal groups tried to put limits on the gun control lobby’s First 
Amendment rights of free speech.
August Lee is a Gainesville resident.Gun control groups distort facts, ignore ConstitutionGuest column
August Lee
Speaking Out8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Rain, rain, go away
Students rush to class as torrential rainfall and thunderstorms cast gray clouds over Gainesville 
on Tuesday.  The storm brought lightning and 1.62 inches of rain, yet the rest of the week should be mostly sunny skies, according to the National Weather Service forecast for Gainesville.
By RACHEL STEPHENS
Alligator Contributing Writer
You don’t have to travel half-
way around the world to experi-
ence authentic European culture. 
In fact, you don’t even have to 
leave Gainesville. 
A series of authentic European 
cooking classes, sponsored by the 
UF Center for European Studies, 
will start Thursday evening.
Turkish, Slovak, Bosnian/
French and Hungarian classes 
form the new line-up for this se-
mester. A native from each coun-
try will be co-teaching classes 
along with the head chef of Take 
Away Gourmet, a local catering business. 
Classes are spread out over 
the next few months and will take 
place at Take Away Gourmet, 
3345 SW 34th St.
The series offers a unique 
learning experience, according to 
the center’s outreach coordinator, Gail Keeler.
“There’s ritual and a lot of rich 
tradition that are handed down 
through generations in terms of 
recipes,” she said.
Because of demand, Take 
Away Gourmet has expanded 
and rearranged to accommodate 
more participants this semester. 
Ten students are now allowed in 
each class, compared 
to eight students per 
class last semester.
Registration is still 
open, but classes are filling up quickly. People who took the class last semester were the first to reg-
ister this time, Keeler said. 
Classes are open to vegetarians 
and vegans. Students can check 
the recipes for the class they are 
interested in online to see if it con-
tains foods they can’t eat. 
Each class costs $25. Anyone 
may register for a cooking class online at takeawaygourmet4u.
com.Chefs demonstrate 
European cooking
MUSIC
By ELLIOT EVANS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The blues are back. 
From hearing the electric blues riffs of 
The Black Keys in commercials to the various projects of 21st century bluesman Jack White, blues music is making its way back into popu-
lar culture.
It’s all part of a century-long trend of ebbs 
and flows in popularity for the genre, accord-
ing to John Rogers, a Gainesville resident who’s played guitar for more than 40 years.
Rogers, 67, presented part of “The Roots of 
American Music” program at a Writers’ Alli-ance of Gainesville meeting to 38 people on Sunday at the Millhopper Branch Library. He 
developed the presentation as part of North Central Florida Blues Society’s “Blues in the Schools” program.
The presentation gives a brief history of the 
origins of blues music through storytelling and 
songs, including some of Rogers’ originals, as well as other blues standards.
He started playing guitar when he was 19 
while recovering from a foot injury . He bought a $29 guitar and played the popular folk music of the day.
After graduating from Dartmouth College 
with an English degree, he moved to Green-wich Village — the famed musicians’ haven — to attend New York University. He was exposed to the music that stirred something in him.
“The blues grabbed me by the lapels, spun 
me around, slammed me down on the ground and said, ‘This is the music you’re going to play, boy,’” he said during his presentation.
While in New York, he saw famed blues 
musician Mississippi John Hurt perform at the Gaslight Cafe, which he said was the best way for him to learn the style.
“I did what every love-struck guitarist 
does,” he said. “I started copying others.” Last year, Rogers recorded his second al-
bum, “Old and New, Borrowed and Blue.”  
In addition to selling his albums at CD-
Baby .com, he sells them for $10 at Satchel’s Pizza, 1800 NE 23rd Ave., where he performs 
monthly. Although he said he has no imme-
diate plans to record any new material, he’s trying to expand his “The Roots of American Music” presentation as he approaches retire-ment from his corporate job.
He said he’ll perform a lot during April 
and May when the music festivals go into full swing. As he continues writing and perform-ing his music, he has also started working on 
a novel, which he said is just another part of 
his creativity . 
“Nobody really understands the creative 
process,” he said. “As far as I can tell, everyone does it different.” Gainesville musician speaks of blues resurrection  
“The blues grabbed me by 
the lapels, spun me around,      
slammed me down on the    
ground and said, ‘This is the     
music you’re going to play, boy.’”
John Rogers
Gainesville resident and guitarist
By KAITLYNN FLOYD
Alligator Contributing Writer
Although Gainesville was ranked as the fifth-
meanest city toward the homeless in the U.S. in 
2008, developments on the City of Gainesville/Alachua County 10-Year Plan to End Homeless-ness are taking steps in a positive direction.
The next big step is the construction of the 
One-Stop Homeless Assistance Center. The cen-ter will house 68 homeless people and offer sev-eral different services.
Alachua County’s Poverty Reduction Pro-
gram Director John Skelly helped start the ini-tiative. Skelly said several of the plan’s objec-tives have had a slow start, but the center is beginning to take action.
“It’s not only adding more beds, which is 
important … but the transitional house will al-low them to stay for six months to a year, and the services will help end their homelessness,” he said.
Construction on the center, which will be 
built on Northwest 53rd Avenue, is planned to begin this summer and completion is expected summer or fall of 2012. The public will be able to help create this home after construction be-gins.
Skelly said plans exist to start a website for 
the center that resembles a registry. People will be able to buy from a list of specific items the center needs.
Christy Finnegan, execu-
tive director of Arbor House, said the center is needed very much and will offer sev-eral services including food 
stamps and support. With 
the downturn of the econ-
omy , Finnegan has noticed homelessness is a growing problem.
“Some people used to volunteer at these 
organizations, and now they are clients,” Finnegan said.
In 2010, Alachua County Coalition for the 
Homeless and Hungry counted 1,292 people in 
Gainesville without adequate housing.City plans homeless center
n THEY PLAYED “CRAZY TAXI.”
By DIANA JACOBSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers hope to find ways 
to improve and maintain the men-
tal functions of older adults using something many college students 
are familiar with — video games.
The Research to Examine Videog-
ame Interventions for Visual Atten-
tion study aims to assess whether an action video game can improve visual attention in adults. 
Visual attention affects a person’s 
ability to perform tasks such as driv-ing, reading medication labels or 
finding items in a pantry. Later in 
life, visual attention declines, but there may be a way to get some of that back.
In the study currently going on 
at UF, Patricia Belchior and Michael Marsiske are aiming to find a way to link the use of action video games, in this case “Crazy Taxi,” to the visual attentiveness of older adults. 
Marsiske said “Crazy Taxi” is a 
simple game without complicated controls.
“That means that our older adults, 
all of whom are novice game play-ers, can focus on actually ‘driving,’ and thereby getting visual attention practice,” he said.
The subjects of the study will be 
randomly assigned to three different groups. One group of people will play 
“Crazy Taxi” to practice their visual attention. The second group will play the PositScience game called InSight. The third group will not receive any visual attention training at all. 
Subjects chosen to play “Crazy 
Taxi” will log about 64 hours of prac-tice time during the approximated seven months they participate in the study.Study tests video games’ 
effects on older adults
Finnegan
UFResearc hStudentLifewere taking.
The Progress Party officially 
merged with the Student Alliance 
party Tuesday.
“We’re looking forward to hav-
ing [the Student Alliance party 
members] as a part of this new, 
unified Progress Party,” Schneider 
said.
Meyers, who has been seriously 
considering running for the office for a while, said he wants to gain more exposure to campus-wide is-
sues. 
He was previously chairman of 
the Senate Allocations Committee 
and a senator for the sophomore 
class and the College of Agricul-
tural and Life Sciences.
“This campus has serious prob-
lems, and it needs serious people to 
fix it,” he said. 
Schneider, a student activist 
and an organizer for Students for a 
Democratic Society, said he decided 
to run for election because of the is-sues facing UF concerning relations 
with the University Police Depart-ment and the Florida legislature.
“[UF] needs students to become 
more active in Student Government and take control of this thing, and it needs strong activist leadership,” Schneider said.
Both candidates said their par -
ties will release the complete execu-tive tickets early next week.
The deadline 
to register a po-litical party for the spring election is Thursday at noon. 
If candidates 
wish to run inde-pendently, they should register 
during the qualifying period. 
Qualifying for positions with 
the parties will take place from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday, Monday and Tuesday in Room 284 of the Reitz Union. 
Students should remember to 
bring a photo ID.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Student Senate President Ben Meyers formally announces his candidacy for Student Body president 
to a crowd of Unite Party members Tuesday afternoon at the Reitz Union Colonnade.
Student Government elections will be held Feb. 22-23 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
SG , from page 1The mayor said proposed police department merger is non-negotiable
fic management system and the 
upgraded traffic light system as examples, while still funding 
services and programs, such as 
afterschool and mentoring pro-grams. 
He also hinted that the city 
may re-examine some of the cuts made in the past year. 
One of the issues that is non-
negotiable, Lowe said, is the preservation of the Gainesville 
Police Department. As talks of consolidation be-
tween Gainesville Police Depart-
ment and the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office heat up, the may-
or told the audience where he stood.
“Any attempt to abolish this 
integral part of our city is an at-
tack on our home rule. In short, 
we must save GPD,” Lowe said as he was met with cheers and applause.
In regard to what was arguably 
Gainesville’s most contentious event of the year, the proposed “International Burn a Koran Day“ on Sept. 11 by the Dove World Outreach Center, Lowe praised 
residents for coming together to 
combat what he described as “in-flammatory rhetoric.”
“When the eyes of the world were upon us,” Lowe said, “You, 
the citizens, expressed our city’s 
true character.”
Lowe also spent a good chunk 
of his 22-minute address discuss-
ing future plans like the devel-
opment of Innovation Square, a project involving UF, the imple-mentation of a bus rapid transit system in Gainesville and the 
continued battle to clean up the 
Superfund site. 
While he acknowledged a 
sense of uncertainty for the up-
coming year given the calls from the governor’s office and the 
state legislature for an adherence to stricter fiscal policy, Lowe re-
mains optimistic for Gainesville’s 
future.
“We have faced the chal-
lenges of the past year head on and moved Gainesville forward 
through innovative thinking and 
proven strategies gathered from across the nation,” Lowe said. “But the successes we have engi-
neered, even in light of these dif-
ficult times, are not the pinnacle of our city’s potential.”
CITY , from page 1n POLICE OFFICERS SAID THE 
PROTEST WAS CALM.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
About 30 protesters stood outside 
the Hippodrome Theatre on Tuesday 
to voice their displeasure for the city’s 
treatment of homeless people as May-or Craig Lowe gave his State of the City address.
The protest was organized by 
the Coalition to End the Meal Limit NOW!, a group focused on repealing the 130-meal limit placed on St. Fran-cis House, a Gainesville soup kitchen.
Protesters chanted slogans such 
as “When did compassion go out of fashion?” and “There is no excuse for homeless abuse.”
Some walked silently. 
One clanged cowbells. 
Volunteers gave away homemade 
cornbread and vegan chili to the homeless.
“While [the mayor] is giving his 
State of the City, we want to make sure this aspect of the state of the city is projected,” said Joe Cenker, a mem-ber of the coalition.
Gainesville Police Department sent 
officers to the Hippodrome, but Lt. Tim Hayes said the protest was calm.
“As long as everyone’s peace-
fully protesting, we’re not getting in-volved,” he said.
Two citizens who supported the de-
cision to enforce the meal limit were outnumbered as they stood among the 
opposition.
“I’m all for feeding people,” said Jai 
Levengood, a Gainesville 
resident who lives near 
downtown. “I just think 
one neighborhood is be-
ing overly burdened.”
Steve Lyons, a resident of St. Fran-
cis House, said he’s seen children, 
pregnant women and elderly people 
turned away for food. 
He himself has been turned away 
twice.
Lyons said he was glad to see that 
the protesters cared but wasn’t sure if the protest itself would change any-thing.
“I hope it does,” he said.Protesters rally against meal limit outside speech
Meredith Rutland / Alligator
Protesters chant in front of the Hippodrome State Theater in opposition of the meal limit for 
serving the homeless on Tuesday while Mayor Craig Lowe gave his State of the City speech.
Meyers
NewsLocal
“When the eyes of the 
world were upon us, you, 
the citizens, expressed our 
city’s true character.”
Craig Lowe
Gainesville mayorClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-8-15-1
$675(Price Negotiable). CLEAN. Spacious. 
1 Bed/Bath. Minute walk from UF. Nice view. 
Quiet. New Kitchen Floors. Painted Nicely. 
Washer/Dryer. Pets allowed. Moving out of 
town. You can keep the furniture! If interest-
ed feel free to call or text (304)218-1628 or 
email stever0@ufl.edu    1-27-11-5-1QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-21 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted. Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625
·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779
·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-22/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/D
Pet friendly
352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-2-10-
30-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 11
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-4-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-1-11-14-2
2BR/1BA cabin, 20 acres. Fixer-upper. 
Horses/dogs welcome. 27802 SW 120th Lane, Newberry. $555/mo. Comes with horse. Long driveway. In Gothe State Forest. Call 330-329-8834    1-26-10-2AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-9-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA house. 
Beautiful wd flrs, fireplace, good size rooms. 
W/D provided, fenced yard. Pet ok. CH/AC, 
DW, 830 NW 16th Ave. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342  gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-9-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-9-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com     2-1-11-9-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
Really nice and spacious 1 BR. Walking 
distance from UF! Two blocks from Beaty 
Towers! Pets are welcome. $460/month. 
With parking & laundry services in the com-
plex. Call 352-6725479 to move in today!  
1-27-5-2
****  HOUSE 4BR/2BA  ****
Avail 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, bike to UF. 
NO Pets. Drive by 3532 NW 7th Ave, pick up flyer. $1200/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645    2-18-11-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2Remodeled 2bd/1.5ba Townhouse; new 
w/d; close to mall and pub transp; 4mi from 
campus; free cable; partially furn; 2 parking 
spaces; NO PETS $650 mo   (352)672-1571   
2-1-11-5-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances including W/D, 
DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
available. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    
3-31-11-42-2
Lg Rm, 4/2, Clean + Quiet
.03 mi to SFC, 8 mi UF. 2 lv rms, laundry, 
garage, lg kitchen, porch. 325 + 1/4 util (avg. 
80 e/month). 1st, last, sec dep (negotiable)! 
352-283-9905, sarad7821@yahoo.com   
2-1-11-5-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus 
Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun 
Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 
352-871-7801    2-1-11-5-2
Treehouse Village
2 beds/2baths condo incl washer & dryer.
Pool & tennis court.Bus stop opposite con-
do.954-9186425   1-28-11-5-2
Live in the CLOSEST apartment complex 
to UF! Price is all inclusive with: Hi-Speed 
Ethernet, Extended Cable Package, Water, 
Sewage, Garbage, Parking, Pest Control & 
Electric. Enjoy a private bedroom, spacious 
kitchen and living room.. Pool on-site! Free 
Parking! Townhouse layout. Rent is $504 
and available from Feb. 1 2011 to Aug. 9th 
2011. If interested email me at
ssuarez5@ufl.edu    1-27-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $425/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79291-31-10-42-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. $425/month. Short term lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   1-28-11-16-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! Call 850-974-0686   2-4-11-20-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 orjfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
2BR/1.5BA newly renovated townhouse. 
6134 SW 8th Lane. You have to see it to 
appreciate it! Come see it and make an of-
fer. Call 352-281-7411 or 786-537-2963 and 
make an appointment   1-31-11-17-5
Rent to Buy. 2BR/2BA Capstone Quarters 
Condo Near Shands. Private porch, back-
yard, new carpet, paint and appliances. 
Community Pool, $650/mo. $54,900 Call 
352-378-4626   1-28-11-15-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-
liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 
(352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
WATERBED FOR SALE
Willing to deliver. Pictures available. Asking $150. MUST GO TODAY. 352-377-5560    1-26-5-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
12, ALLIGATOR � WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
iPad Owners
www.CaptureNotes.com
is the BEST note taking app for the iPad
Created by Gators for Gators!
G8R Software, LLC - GO GATORS!
1-28-8-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948    
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
What's black and white & read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submir resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
2-8-10-30-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Flexible, minimum 20 
weekday hours. Excellent Word, Excel, typ-
ing, internet skills. $7.25/hr. Indicate, major, 
graduating semester, available schedule.  
siva1950@yahoo.com   1-28-11-22-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 13
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on 
cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. 
Compensation will be provided. If interested, 
call 336-406-3706 or email
uflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-28-14-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS 
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY 
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT 
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-4-11-20-14
University Athletic Association - Accounting
Currently seeking flexible individual for part-
time (OPS) filing clerk. Varied duties includ -
ing data entry and filing. Experienced in Microsoft Excel & good organizational skills 
required. Minimum wage position averag -
ing 20 hour per week. Please fax resume to 
(352) 375-5182.     1-26-11-12-14Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
Computer tech, Skills to repair comps. Must 
have car. Be honest, available, dependable. 
Part time, make own hours. hr@blue4.com    
1-26-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
2-9-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-2-15-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, 
clean building, very minor mechanical, hours
1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]
12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   
11-20-11-5-14
CONSTRUCTION SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
Full or part time student. Responsibilities - 
AutoCAD, SketchUp. Assist with planning 
hanger, putting green, guest house, swim-
ming pool, fountain construction and main-
tenance of multiple business and residence 
properties. Back up Shipping, yard main-
tenance. Apply at http://www.gleim.com.    
1-27-11-10-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm 
& 3:30-9:30pm, M-F & wkends. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    1-27-11-10-14
EARN UP TO $300/DAY! Bartending!!! No 
experience necessary. We train you! 888-
575-TIPS (8477)           1-28-11-8-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, 
phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
NANNY NEEDED NOW  28hrs/wk; $10/hr 
10 month old; MWF 8:30-12:30; T/TH 9-5 
clean bkkg; exp + refs; long term commit; 
email resume, sched, pix, + hello to NOAH'S 
ARK NANNY:  gnv@nanoneone.com   1-28-
11-6-14
HELP WANTED: Student caregiver/assistant 
for woman with Parkinson's Disease. Needs help with administering pills, proper fluid and food intake, basic house cleaning, Dr appts, and errands. Knowledge in physical therapy a plus. Late morning and early afternoon. Min 10 hrs/wk. lisak0905@gmail.com1-28-11-5-14
Dependable,experienced Nanny needed to 
care for newborn; M-F; 35 hrs/wk; occasion -
al travel with mom; $9/hr. FL Driver License, background check, and excellent references required. Email resume toabtwbutler@gmail.com.   2-4-11-10-14
Now Hiring Starbucks Baristas!
Gator Dining Services, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, is now hir-ing baristas for a new Starbucks opening in March.
We offer flexible schedules, competitive pay, 
and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply online at www.gatordining.com or in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.   1-31-11-5-14
Get Paid to Take Surveys, earn up to $16/hr!
Work as little or as much as you want. NPD Research is hiring workers to take surveys and test products, email is all thats needed. Apply at www.paidonlineresearch.info   2-1-5-14GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITY
WHY PAY MORE? 371 9696
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15
Beauty in the Blocks Quilts & More
Making custom-made quilts & t-shirt quilts.Great for special occasions & preserving event t-shirts!Go to www.beautyintheblocks.com for more information on ordering a quilt.   2-1-11-5-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Sports
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
ATHENS, Ga. — After missing 
two critical free throws in the closing 
moments of regulation, Erving Walk-er found redemption by draining a 
game-tying three with one second 
left in overtime, igniting the Gators. 
Walker’s shot forced an extra pe-
riod Florida (16-4, 5-1 Southeastern Conference) would dominate en route to a 104-91 double-overtime victory over Georgia (14-5, 3-3 SEC) on Tuesday in Athens. 
“In a situation like that, there’s 
no time to think,” Walker said. “You just have to be ballsy and step up and knock it down.”
Following a free throw from Jere-my Price that extended Georgia’s lead to three with six seconds remaining in overtime, Walker took the inbounds pass and drove past half court. 
About 30 feet from the basket, 
Walker pulled up and drilled the 
high-arcing, game-tying three with 
just one second remaining. 
“With him, it’s always got a 
chance,” coach Billy Donovan said. 
Walker’s last-second heroics came 
just minutes after he cost his team an opportunity to seal the win in regula-tion. 
With the Gators leading by four 
and 35 seconds remaining, Walker missed the front end of a one-and-one. 
Georgia junior guard Gerald Rob-
inson followed with a three to cut Florida’s lead to one, and Walker again found himself at the line with 21 seconds left. 
This time, the junior connected on 
the front end but missed the second, leaving the door open for Georgia junior forward Trey Thompkins to 
score a tip-in at the buzzer and send 
the game to overtime.
“I was definitely kicking myself,” 
Walker said. “I put my team at risk with that. I should’ve been able to put the game away, but we battled and we’re just happy to come out with the win.”
The junior point guard followed 
his game-changing three with the first basket of double overtime, giv-ing the Gators a lead they would never relinquish. 
Florida dominated the second 
overtime period 19-6 thanks to the ef-forts of junior Chandler Parsons, who scored nine points and grabbed four rebounds in the final five minutes. 
“I just tried to take over and be ag-
gressive,” Parsons said. “I’m just go-ing to play the same way I keep play-ing all year long, and I was fortunate to hit some shots and make some plays in double overtime.” 
Although they were playing their 
third game in six days, the Gators looked to be the much fresher team 
down the stretch. Florida tied its 
highest scoring output in SEC games under Donovan just two games re-moved from putting up the fewest points (45) in the Donovan era Thurs-day at Auburn.
The Gators made 5 of 7 field goals 
in the final period while holding Georgia’s big three of Thompkins, 
Robinson and junior guard Travis 
Leslie to just three points. 
“Putting us through that condi-
tioning and all that stuff, it all paid off,“ Walker said. “Sometimes coach gets mad at us in practice telling us 
to run suicides. Those extra suicides 
probably helped us out here, that we had legs to finish it off.” 
Although Thompkins, the pre-
season SEC Player of the Year, fin-ished the game with 20 points and 13 rebounds, Florida defended him well after halftime. 
The junior had just nine points 
and four rebounds in the game’s final 30 minutes. 
“He’s a great player, so we had 
to know where he was at all times,” Parsons said. “Our whole game plan going in was the weakside guard sit-ting in his lap.”UF edges UGA in double overtime
I DID NOT KNOW THAT alligatorSports Podcast TEEING OFF WITH ADAM BERRY
n Adam Berry and Jesse Simonton 
welcomed back former Alligator 
co-worker and current GatorBait.net writer Kyle Maistri to talk Florida basketball. Check it out on iTunes.n We had a little trouble in the office Tuesday, as a leaky roof in our server room 
led to power and server outages. I remained calm, immediately making apoca -
lypse comparisons while playing “It’s the End of the World As We Know It” by 
R.E.M. ... Thankfully, our staff quickly picked up the pieces while I chipped in by contracting the roofing company, helping a much smarter person fix the server and editing the sports section. And they say Chandler Parsons is versatile?AP Photo
Florida junior guard Erving Walker drives on Georgia guard Gerald Rob -
inson in the second half of UF’s 104-91 win Tuesday night in Athens.
UF GYMNASTICS
By ALLISON BANKO 
Alligator Writer
 
It began as a routine recruiting trip to a Jacksonville 
gymnastics studio. 
The Florida gymnastics coaching staff arrived at Gym-
nastics Unlimited to check out another 
recruit, but it was a young Ashanée Dickerson, donned in orange and blue, 
practicing her vault, who would morph 
into the Gators’ future star.
“We were actually there to see anoth-
er gymnast that was about two or three 
years older than Ashanée ,” coach Rhon-
da Faehn said. “Ashanée  was vaulting, 
and she stood out, obviously. Her coaches pointed to her 
and said, ‘She’s going to be your next Gator.’ From that point on, we’ve always had our eyes on Ashanée .”
Flash forward to Dickerson’s sophomore year at UF, Dickerson builds 
off sensational freshman season
FLORIDA’S MISTAKES HAVE BEEN CRITICAL IN 
CREATING ITS FOUR-GAME LOSING SKID.
 
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
All season, the Gators have had a crutch to lean on after 
making mistakes: six new players trying to adapt at the next 
level.  
But after a devastating 10-point collapse to Kentucky at 
home, coach Amanda Butler said inexperience would no 
longer be considered an excuse for the sloppy ball handling and poor defense Florida displayed while handing away yet another game. 
No more crutch. Freshman guard Jaterra Bonds, who 
leads the team with 65 turnovers, agreed 
and said the team definitely has to correct 
those breakdowns.
“We’ve played so many minutes,” 
Bonds said. “We’re all like sophomores because we play a lot, so it shouldn’t be an 
excuse. I don’t make that excuse.”
Apart from the obvious issue of turning the ball over, 
Florida is relinquishing the rock in pivotal moments, leading directly to scores for the opposition.  
The Gators gave it away four times in the first two min-
utes against Kentucky , allowing an early 6-0 Wildcats lead, Gators say youth 
not a good excuse
n The Florida softball team was ranked No. 
5 in two national preseason polls. For the 
third straight year, the Gators were in the top five in the Preseason USA Today/National Fastpitch Coaches Association poll and ESPN.com/USA Softball Collegiate Top 25.Faehn
Women's
Bask etballSEE GYM, PAGE 15
SEE W -hOOPS, PAGE 15and five times in the final five and a half minutes during a 15-4 run 
that ultimately sealed a one-point loss. 
Making matters worse, an unhealthy amount of the Gators’ 
woes seem unforced. Junior guard Jordan Jones agreed with that assessment. 
“Definitely,” she said. “And I think coach Butler would agree 
as well.
“It really sets the tone for how we’re going to play when we 
have turnovers on the first four possessions. We’re on a losing streak, and I think that’s one of the main contributions to that.”
Jones also echoed the sentiment that UF is allowing teams to 
take advantage of their mistakes — not that it could be denied. 
Florida had a 16-point lead with 14:21 left at Georgia on Jan. 16. 
Its next three possessions? Turnover, turnover, foul. The Bulldogs 
scored on each opportunity and cut into the Gators’ lead. 
UF’s advantage dwindled to five points with less than six min-
utes left, but it appeared Florida still had the game in its grasp. 
Then, the Gators committed five turnovers that led to 10 Georgia points, and all of a sudden, Butler was answering questions about another devastating defeat instead of a thrilling road victory.
Jones said the atmosphere of road games in the Southeastern 
Conference can be tough on the first-year players, yet agreed with Butler’s opinion that the time for excuses has passed. 
“We have to grow up,” she said. “The youth and inexperience 
can be part of our immaturity . We let teams go on runs, and it kind of gets us down. Part of that can be attributed to youth, but it can’t be used an excuse.”
The catalyst to UF’s problems, Butler said, has been pressure. 
She recognized the nerves involved in protecting a lead and the ability to handle defensive pressure as areas causing headaches. 
While Butler acknowledged the intensity UF faced in recent 
games is tough to emulate, she said she has dedicated time in prac-
tice to recreating similar situations in an effort to ready her team.  
“But the hardest part … is getting a lead against such a great 
team,” Butler said. “The finishing out part shouldn’t be the part 
that we’re struggling with.”and she’s done more than just become another Gator. With 
her performance in Friday’s meet against LSU, Dickerson reeled in her 10th all-around title. She won all four of the meet’s events, the first UF gymnast to do so since 2000. 
“It was great,” Dickerson said. “I don’t pay attention to 
my scores so I didn’t know what my all-around score would be. I just went out there and had fun with my teammates be-cause we knew the crowd was against us.”
Due to her stellar performance against the Tigers, Dick-
erson was named Southeastern Conference Gymnast of the Week for the second time in her collegiate career.  
“She’ll come back in immediately after winning every 
event and the all-around and get right back to work,” Faehn said. “She doesn’t expect to get a little bit of a break or say, ‘Hey I’ve won so many meets, I don’t have to work as hard, I’m good.’ She works even harder to fix the smallest little mistakes. She’s awesome.”
Dickerson’s drive to compete for Florida wasn’t some-
thing that spontaneously came about. She said it’s been a dream she’s had since she was a mere 8 years old.
“I’ve wanted to be a Gator ever since I was a little girl,” 
she said. “Now, it’s comfortable. It’s my home now.”
In the summer of 2009, now-senior Maranda Smith was 
training in the practice facilities at Florida when Dickerson first stepped in the studio as the Gators’ newest gymnast.
“From the first day, she was all ready to do full routines, 
and she was sticking landings,” Smith said. “I always knew she was going to be a rock star out on the floor.”
Despite Dickerson’s spunky attitude on the mats and 
powerful performances that earned her SEC Freshman of 
the Year last season, she became known as the shy one. 
Now, midway through her sophomore year, her shell has finally started to break. 
“She’s definitely provided more of her personality,” 
Smith said. “She cheers. She leads. She’s still the great, same 
gymnast she was last year but just a little more spice behind 
her.”
On top of Dickerson’s more outgoing personality being 
unleashed this season, Faehn said, another noticeable dif-
ference from last season is seen in her efforts to improve her 
gymnastics on a more specific scale.
“She’s really working hard on her 
polish since last year,” Faehn said. “She 
has the power, she has the tricks, but 
she’s worked really hard on her form, 
her flexibility, her overall presentation, 
and that’s making a big difference. She’s really maturing as a gymnast.” 
Currently, Dickerson is ranked No. 3 nationally for all-
around gymnasts, proving that she’s the farthest thing away from a sophomore slump. 
In the corner of the gymnastics studio Dickerson’s al-
ways dreamed to be in, there is a marker-stained white-
board scribbled with the words “Ask yourself, what am I 
doing to bring this team to victory?” 
The Gators have already proved themselves victorious 
this season, sitting pretty at a No. 1 national ranking, a spot 
that Dickerson has no doubt contributed to immensely.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
UF sophomore gymnast Ashanée Dickerson has not regressed at all after being named SEC Freshman of the Year in 
2010. She won the all-around title vs. LSU on Friday, posting the highest score in each of her four events.
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Freshman guard Jaterra Bonds, who has recorded a team-high 65 turnovers this season, said the Gators must 
limit their mistakes, and the fact that the team has six freshmen is no longer an excuse for poor play.
Sophomore shows no signs of slump, personality revealing itself
GYM , from page 14
Pressure situations affecting young squad’s ability to hold onto leads
W-HOOPS , from page 14Gymnastics16, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2011
Steven H. Keys / Alligator
Sophomore Lauren Embree, last season’s SEC Player of the Year, 
will lead Florida as it tries to live up to its No. 2 ranking.
UF WOMEN’S TENNIS
  By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
 Alligator Writer 
   
 High rankings come with high 
expectations, and this season 
Florida has a lot to live up to. 
  On Monday, coaches from the 
Southeastern Conference voted the Gators as the unanimous fa-vorite to win their second con-secutive SEC title. 
  The preseason predictions and 
No. 2 ranking are nothing new for coach Roland Thornqvist and his team. 
  “That’s sort of an unspoken 
thing every year here,” he said. “We always have high expecta-tions. That’s frankly why our players come to Florida. That’s 
the best way to do it: get players 
on board that are already used to high expectations both from themselves and externally.”
  After nearly winning the 
NCAA ﬁ  nals last season, this year’s squad features six return-ing players including SEC Player of the Year Lauren Embree and 
SEC Freshman of the Year Allie 
Will. 
  Embree’s second season in 
Gainesville has been met with adversity, as a wrist injury pre-
vented her from participating in 
the fall. 
The talented sophomore will 
play singles for the ﬁ  rst time, as the Gators open the season today at 5 p.m. against UCF at home.  Embree’s return provides UF 
with another talented player on a roster that already features ﬁ  ve players ranked in the ITA’s top 100. 
  “Our players were sort of used 
to maybe the idea of not having Lauren day in and day out, and now that may be changing for the better for us,” Thornqvist said. 
  The Gators have a blend of ex-
perience and youth that should bode well this season.
  Freshmen Olivia Janowicz, Al-
exandra Cercone and Soﬁ  e Oyen have contributed this season, with Janowicz winning the ITA Southeast Regional in October.  
  Although all three players 
have experience playing in high-proﬁ  le matches at the junior na-tional and international levels, 
today will be their ﬁ  rst taste of 
dual-match play.   “It’s very different than play-
ing as a junior on the junior circuit, where you only play for yourself,” Thornqvist said. “Here, you have the added pres-
sure of playing for Florida with 
the big name in front. 
“You play on a team where 
more often than not, you have the bull’s-eye on you.” 
  With a strong freshman class 
and several key veterans, han-dling the depth of such a talented squad is no easy task. 
  “One of our challenges, I think, 
this year is, with having so many talented players, to have each one of them ﬁ  nd a role on the team,” Thornqvist said. “Even 
though the younger ones are very 
talented, they can’t really lead us no matter where they play in the lineup.” 
  The team has underperformed 
in doubles so far, so the Gators spent the past week building chemistry and making improve-ments, looking to put those on 
display against UCF. 
  “We are going to continue to 
try and press to the importance of 
playing good doubles to start off 
dual matches well,” Thornqvist 
said, “and I think we have the players to be a very good doubles team. 
“So, hopefully some of the 
work we’ve done in the past few days will show itself when we play Central Florida.”  No. 2 Gators ignoring early hype
“We always have high ex-
pectations. That’s frankly 
why our players come to 
Florida. That’s the best 
way  to do it: get players 
on board that are already 
used to high expectations 
both from themselves and 
externally.”
Roland Thornqvist
UF women’s tennis coach