We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 82 THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
NEW YORK  — A former porn actress 
who exchanged emails and messages over 
Twitter with Rep. Anthony Weiner said Wednesday that he asked her to lie about their interactions, while a growing chorus of lawmakers pressed for his resignation as the scandal enveloping the congressman enters its third week.
Weiner has told friends he wanted to 
speak with his pregnant wife, Huma Abe-din, before deciding whether to resign. She returned to Washington early Wednesday from a trip to Africa with her boss, Secre-tary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.
Nightclub dancer Ginger Lee is the 
latest in a series of women who said they received sexually charged messages from the seven-term congressman. The scandal began when Weiner posted a picture of his underwear-clad crotch on Twitter, then lied about it and said his account was hacked.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSPorn actress claims Weiner asked her to lie about conversations
 n  The No. 2 na-
tional seed Gators 
left Gainesville on 
Wednesday to trek 
back to the Col-
lege World Series 
in Omaha, Neb. 
Florida opens with 
Texas on Saturday 
at 7 p.m. on ESPN.
See Story, Page 18.Thunder 
storms
95/73FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 17
SPORTS 18
Ashley Lombardo / Alligator
Summer Sizzle
Andrew Brestel and Kelsey Black take a dip in the Canopy Apartment Villas’ pool to get away from 
record-breaking temperature of 102 degrees Fahrenheit on Wednesday. See story, page 4.
n THE DECISION WAS MADE BY THE FRANCHISE 
AND GATOR DINING SERVICES.
By JUDEEN MOLYNEAUX
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tacos on campus will soon be much harder to come by.
Today at 8 p.m., Taco Bell will close its location at the Reitz 
Union, a UF official confirmed.
Mike Mironack, the Union’s director of operations, said the 
decision was made between the Taco Bell franchise and Gator 
Dining Services, though he couldn’t give specific details as to 
why.
The manager of Taco Bell was also not allowed to say why 
the restaurant was closing; she could only say it would not be 
around for Summer B.
Calls and emails to Gator Dining were not im-
mediately returned. 
The loss of the campus’ Taco Bell means stu-
dents will not be able to get a meal on campus for less than $1.
Whether it was a Cheese Roll-Up for 89 cents or a Beefy 
5-Layer Burrito for 99 cents, Taco Bell has always been a cheap alternative for students on a budget.
The cheapest meal available in the Reitz Union will now be 
a slice of cheese pizza from Papa John’s for $2.50.
The Reitz Union has no current plans for a new business to 
move into the Taco Bell space, Mironack said.
“We are not 100 percent sure how we are going to use the 
space at this point,” Mironack said.
Graduate student Andrew Stewart said he eats at Taco Bell Taco Bell to 
close its doors
ON CAMPUS
By CALLI BREIL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Despite ongoing budget con-
cerns across UF, the amount of 
parking citations issued on cam-
pus has decreased.
Scott Fox, director of Trans-
portation and Parking Services, 
describes the department as more like a business than a department of the university, because it cre-ates its own revenue and does not 
receive revenue from the state, 
university or student tuition.
Its revenue depends on decal 
sales, visitor parking, fines, spe-cial events, meter parking and other sources.
This past year the net decrease of the department’s revenue was 
estimated at $454,452. The office 
has cut some of it expenses by deferring some “non-essential” projects, such as bus shelter con-struction. 
They have also decreased staff, 
eliminating four employees by not filling open positions.
Fox stated they had not fired 
any personnel. 
“You don’t want to fire people, 
even in a tough budget climate,” he said.
Fox said the expenses for the 
office have also increased. “Imag-ine the electric bill we pay to light 13 garages 24/7,” he said. 
Also, the office is expected to 
spend $60,000 to add more ener -gy-efficient lighting.
Fox also said the office would 
be spending more than $1 million to maintain the structural integ-rity of said 13 garages, protecting the $50 million dollar asset.
The office will increase decal 
prices by 6 percent in the coming year, an increase that would allow the office to have a budget cush-ion of about $45,877, just 0.39 per -
cent of the department’s budget. The 2009 revenue from fines 
was about $1.7 million. The office expected the revenue to increase to $1.95 million, but instead it fell to $1.4 million.
“We are writing fewer tickets 
than ever before,” Fox said.
 He said a couple of years 
ago the office would write about 100,000 tickets. This past year 
it wrote about 79,000 tickets, of 
which 5,000 were dismissed after being appealed.
More than 18,000 tickets were 
appealed in the last year, a figure that does not include many stu-dents who didn’t bother with the appeals process.
He explained that when an ap-
peal is made, the Student Traffic Court, a group of unpaid student 
volunteers, reviews it.
He also spoke about the second 
level of the appeal process, where 
one can appeal his or her ticket to a council of faculty members to try to protest their denied appeal.
“Sometimes we make a mis-
take,” Fox said.
For many violations, the office 
takes photos to have evidence to the reason of the citation. 
The office also takes photos 
when cars are towed. Fox said  the photos help provide accuracy during the appeals process.
More than 6 percent of parking 
citations are dismissed.
“I think you get a pretty fair 
judgment,” Fox said.
UF parking services rolling with budget punches SEE TACO, PA gE 5
“You don’t want to fire 
people, even in a tough 
budget climate.”
Scott Fox
director of transportation & parkingStudentLifeNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 82 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Brittany Fink, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Clare Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING 
Gulf Coast Ecosystem 
Restoration director to ad-dress Gulf cleanup
Friday, 10 a.m.Martin H. Levin Advocacy 
Center, UF Law campus
John H. Hankinson Jr., execu-tive director of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Task Force, which is preparing rec-ommendations to restore the Gulf Coast areas damaged by the 2010 oil spill, will speak at the UF Levin College of Law 
on June 17. Hankinson’s visit, 
which is open to the public, is co-sponsored by the Center for Governmental Responsibility at UF Law and the Department of Civil and Coastal Engineering in UF’s College of Engineering. Parking restrictions have been lifted at the law school in the 
green commuter lot for the 
event.
Gainesville Roller Rebels
Roller Derby GameSaturday, 9 p.m.Skate Station Funworks1311 NW 76th Blvd.The Gainesville Roller Rebels women’s flat track roller derby team plays Jacksonville’s Tri-County Rolling Militia this Saturday . Doors open at 8:15 p.m. and the bout begins at 9 p.m. at Skate Station Funworks.
As part of the league’s pledge to 
give back to the community , the LifeSouth Blood Mobile opens at 6 p.m. The first 10 on-site do-nors get into the bout free.Tickets are $8 in advance from 
Skate Station, Sweet Dreams 
Ice Cream or brownpapertick-ets.com; $12 at the door; and 12-and-under are always free. For more event details, visit gainesvillerollerrebels.com.
NATIONAL
Oregon man who quit college 
in 1932 graduates at 99 
BEND, Ore. — An Oregon man 
who dropped out of college just 
short of graduation in 1932 has earned his degree at age 99.
KTVZ-TV in Bend reports that 
Leo Plass, of Redmond, received his diploma a few days ago from Eastern Oregon University in La Grande.
Plass says he was less than one 
semester away from graduating Bonnaroo.
Saturday kicked off with Big 
Boi and Lil Wayne laying down early morning sets — inexplicably overlapping — shortly after Ar -
cade Fire’s Friday night finale, and the takeover continued with Wiz 
Khalifa on the big stage during a 
hot afternoon set before Eminem destroyed his Bonnaroo debut.
 The event is known more for 
its granola-flavored ethos than its urban cool, but Jay-Z turned in one of the most memorable sets in the festival’s 10-year history in 2010, and expectations were high 
for Saturday’s takeover — the 
most concentrated collection of star MCs at Bonnaroo.
The day was full of odd jux-
tapositions. Khalifa dropped his hit “Black & Yellow” while just a few hundred yards away Mum-ford & Sons tore through a set of fiery folk rock as fans watched 
over a nearby fence and from atop 
ATMs. 
Later in the evening, a re-
united Buffalo Springfield set up Eminem’s show with a fiery ren-dition of Neil Young’s “Keep on Rockin’ in the Free World.”
Eminem was in top form, fast 
and angry as he stalked the stage 
in long camouflage shorts and a 
black T-shirt. He thanked his fans for standing by him before launch-ing into “Not Afraid.”
Bonnaroo’s crowd may be a 
hippie enclave, but you wouldn’t have known it Saturday night as most fans rapped right along with Eminem, brightened the sky with 
lighters to the Slim Shady and 
Royce Da 5’9’’’s “Lighters” and played along to a naughty call-and-response before “Love the Way You Lie.”
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS from what was then called East-ern Oregon Normal School and starting a career as a teacher.
But Plass says it was the De-
pression, and a teaching salary 
of $80 a month wouldn’t cut it. 
So when a friend offered him a spot in a logging outfit at $150 a month, Plass says he couldn’t pass it up.
 — THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Oregon officer named 
Byrd rescues young hawk 
PORTLAND, Ore. — It’s the 
kind of story that creates its own 
headline — Byrd Rescues Hawk.
Oregon’s KGW-TV reports 
that Portland Police Bureau of-
ficer Cage Byrd — his real name 
— spotted a young red-tailed hawk standing outside a down-town hair salon on Tuesday.
The raptor chick appeared 
to be injured, so Byrd grabbed some towels and a box from a nearby hotel and took the hawk to a veterinary hospital.
The bird was later taken to the 
Audubon Society , which says the hawk probably fell from a nest near the KGW Audubon Raptor Cam. The remote camera records the activity of a raptor family and is shown on a website that has become popular.
One of the three chicks sus-
tained a leg injury last week.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Eminem takes the big 
stage as rap rules Bonnaroo 
MANCHESTER, Tenn.  — 
After a little more than an hour 
of a hard-as-nails set that had the bikini-clad rumps shaking at Bonnaroo, Eminem thanked the 
crowd and left the stage.
Nearly 80,000 fans chanted 
“Shady! Shady! Shady!” in a 
thunderous roar for five min-utes until hip hop’s angry king returned to the stage for a trium-phant encore of “Lose Yourself,” capping the day rap took over MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
97/73SUNNY
97/73THUNDER
STORMS
97/74THUNDER
STORMS
98/74THUNDER
STORMS
95/73
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By DEVANEY VAZQUEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jennifer Aldrich and Jon MacAllister say 
the Internet helped them start a promis-
ing relationship. It also helped them start a promising business. 
Midnight Cookies is a delivery service 
that delivers “freshly baked, made-to-order 
cookies, straight from the oven to your door -
step,” the  website says.
The small business is located inside of 
California Chicken Grill at 2022 SW 34th St., but Midnight Cookies is an entirely separate 
business with different staff and drivers.
Its niche delivery market mainly targets 
college students. It also gets a lot of walk-in business from California Chicken Grill cus-
tomers who notice the desk in the back cor -
ner.
“We get a lot of the late-night, drunk 
crowd who just want desserts and don’t want to drive yet,” Aldrich said.
The two owners work 40 to 80 hours a 
week, stay open seven days a week and have 
a nocturnal working schedule. For the small shop’s summer schedule, business opens 
every day at 7 p.m. and closes at 1:30 a.m 
Monday through Thursday. On Friday and Saturday, the business closes at 2 a.m. and 1 a.m on Sundays. 
Cookies are $1.29 each and a minimum 
of six must be ordered for delivery. After tax is added, the minimum price for delivery is $8 and there is a $1 charge for orders under $12.
The business has earned itself some loyal 
fans.“The amazing thing about this business is 
that every time they deliver, the cookies are still warm,” Cynthia Rodriguez said. “It’s 
as if I had taken them out of the oven my-self. But who am I kidding? I can’t bake that 
good.”
Rodriguez, an undergraduate biology 
major at UF, “likes” almost every status up-date and comment on the Midnight Cookies fan page on Facebook. She describes herself as daring and said she loves to try all the new 
crazy cookies they have.
Midnight Cookies is proud of their “cra-
zy” creations. Their newest creation is the 
maple-bacon cookie, Aldrich said. The idea was inspired by the Denny’s bacon sundae, she said.
This cookie business had unusual begin-
nings.
The two met on the website OKCupid, 
where Aldrich took interest in MacAllister’s roles in high school musicals. 
MacAllister was a full-time student at UF 
before being academically dismissed and transferring to Santa Fe College.  He worked 40 to 60 hours a week at California Chicken 
Grill. During this time, Aldrich made the 
move to Gainesville to be with him.
The move was difficult for her at the time 
because she didn’t know anyone, so she turned to baking. 
MacAllister, the creative one of the two, 
would put new ingredients in his wife’s reci-pes. Some crushed-up Oreo cookies later, the famous cookies-and-cream cookie was born.
Midnight Cookies finally took off Aug. 9 
and is close to celebrating its one-year anni-versary.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Jennifer Aldrich, owner of Midnight Cookies, poses with a Cookie Monster mascot 
and an assortment of gourmet cookies at 2022 SW 34th St. Wednesday night.
LOCAL
For those with late-night munchies, cookie service offers cure 
By ESTEE BECK
Alligator Writer
County Commissioner Rodney Long, who 
announced his retirement in an email Monday 
morning, said he will continue to serve the Gainesville and Alachua County community from his private sector.
“It’s time to leave while I’m at the top of 
my game,” said Long, as he chronicled his 22-year public service career at his official retire-ment speech Wednesday morning to a crowd 
of almost 80.
He reminisced about his career milestones 
including founding the Martin Luther King Jr. Commission of Florida, serving as president of 
the Florida Association of Counties and spear -
heading the Plan East Gainesville project. 
He also joked about his pitfalls, remember -
ing his first bout of negative publicity shortly after his 1988 election. 
“You wanted to be a trail blazer,” Long re-
called, “so, blaze the trail.”
Smiles, nods and laughs in the audience 
followed each of Long’s statements. Tears even flowed for some, including Diyonne 
McGraw, a professional and personal friend 
of Long’s. 
“The timing is perfect,” she said of Long’s 
decision to retire. McGraw said Long played a large role in her life as a mentor, guiding her professional career, and that he’s left an even 
bigger impact on the community.
Long said his community involvement 
won’t stop. He has plans to continue projects in his areas of concern, such as developing and 
improving east Gainesville, reducing poverty and homelessness and providing education for at-risk youth.
It was 1988 when Long’s career as a public service officer took off with his election as the first single-member district commissioner. He 
was re-elected in 1991, and after much con-
troversy, was elected the first district mayor-commissioner later that year.
In 2000, Long won his first county seat on 
the Alachua County Commission, making him 
the first African-American to serve on both the 
Gainesville City Commission and the Alachua County Board of Commissioners.
Long also announced in his retirement 
email that state Rep. Charles S. “Chuck” Chestnut IV , D- Gainesville, will seek Long’s District 5 seat on the County Commission. 
“I believe that he could actually be an in-
dividual who could hit the ground running,” 
Long said. “It’s time to pass the torch.”After 22 years in public service, Long says its time to hang it up  
State representative to run for his county seat
“It’s time to leave while I’m at the 
top of my game.”
Rodney Long
County Commissionern THE TEMPERATURE HIT 102 °
By MARIA CASTILLO 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Reaching 102 degrees Fahrenheit, temper -
atures in Gainesville broke a record that has 
stood since 1977. 
Peter Wolf, a spokesman for the Na-
tional Weather Service in Jacksonville, said Gainesville reached a high of 99 degrees Tues-day . By Wednesday at 4 p.m., it hit the record high.
Typically ,  July and August are the most 
common months for record-breaking num-bers, Wolf said.
“Records are about a 100, 102,” he said, “so 
it can get this hot, but [it’s] a bit unusual this early.”
The temperatures will cool down slightly 
over the weekend, he said.
The highest recorded temperature for 
Gainesville was 103 degrees in August 1915. 
With such hot temperatures, exercising 
and spending time outdoors could lead to dehydration if people don’t take precautions. Shannon Kirkpatrick, health promotion spe-cialist at GatorWell Health Services, said peo-ple should drink about eights cups of water a day to maintain healthy and hydrated during the summer heat. 
Some signs of mild dehydration are thirst, 
fatigue and loss of appetite. Drinking water could aid these symptoms, Kirkpatrick said, but for a person who has been exercising outdoors, sport energy drinks like Gatorade work best.For Gainesville, the heat is on
By DANIELA GUZMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Office of the Provost is introduc-
ing a new program, called Creative B, 
which is an effort to refresh UF campus 
life from June 27 to Aug 5.
Proposed in 2010, the program is 
a collaboration of the Colleges of Fine 
Arts, Performing Arts, Journalism and Communications, and Engineering. 
Other campus agencies, like Student 
Affairs and the Smathers Libraries, are joining in an effort to boost campus cre-ativity. Live performances and unique 
academic opportunities will also be part 
of the program. 
“We are hoping that momentum car -
ries through to the fall and spring,” said Andy Howard, manager of marketing and alumni affairs at the College of Fine Arts. 
At its core, Creative B is a promo-
tional effort as opposed to a curriculum track.  
The program is designed to encour -
age students to enroll in courses bridg-
ing the gap between left and right brain activity . Classes such as Local Acts: Performance and Engage-
ment, in which students watch acts all over the city of Gainesville.
Another feature of the Creative B pro-
gram is the Swamp Dance Fest, which is “putting Gainesville on the cultural 
map,” according to Neta Pulvermacher, 
a UF dance professor. She directs this semester-long workshop, which is open to both beginners and expert ballerinas.Campus program to 
debut in Summer B
OnCampu sTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
 Max Reed / Alligator Staff 
   Ellie Allen, from the College of William & Mary, and Kara Naseef, from American University, study 
Swahili outside of the Reitz Union Taco Bell on Wednesday night.  
The Reitz Union currently 
has no plans for the space
frequently. 
  Stewart likes the convenience of hav-
ing one in Reitz Union as opposed to 
taking the hike down University Avenue 
to get his favorite item, the Crunchwrap 
Surpreme.
  He has watched the inexpensive food 
options slowly vanish from UF’s cam-
pus.
  “I used to go to Wendy’s, and that 
closed down too,” he said. “There’s not 
really anymore cheap food around here 
now.”
  Janelle Guzman, a UF wildlife ecol-
ogy junior, said she doesn’t eat much at Taco Bell but was surprised to hear that 
it was closing. 
  “I never thought I’d see the day,” she 
said. “It’s been there ever since I’ve been to UF, so I never really thought it would 
close.”
  David Peterside, a ﬁ  fth-year bioen-
gineering student, was also shocked to hear that Taco Bell would no longer be a 
part of campus life.
  “It’s really surprising,” he said. “On 
my way to the bus stop, it’s usually packed, especially around lunch time.”
  Peterside said he ate there because of 
the cheap food.
  “If something more expensive goes 
there, I’ll be sad,” he said. TACO , from page 1  By ESTEE BECK
 Alligator Writer
 
  Faculty, staff and students at 
UF are being reminded by the 
university to monitor their social media activity at work, school and home.
  The university’s Ofﬁ  ce of Hu-
man Resources released a docu-ment Monday outlining federal, state and university regulations relevant to social media use.
  Social media includes Face-
book, Twitter, blogs, YouTube, Flickr, text messages and other, less popular platforms, accord-
ing to the document, which has 
been more than one year in the making.
  If the use of social media out-
side of work represents an indi-
vidual as a member of the univer-
sity community, the guidelines apply. 
  If social media are used to 
share opinions and activities 
unassociated with the university, such 
conditions must be 
clearly indicated.
  Janine Sikes, director of UF 
public affairs, said the initial con-cern was the accidental release 
of patient information or student 
and applicant records via social media, which would violate both legal and ethical standards.
  She said the human resources 
department pooled together ex-isting regulations into one docu-ment, which speciﬁ  cally address-es social media use.
  “Essentially, it’s a reminder of 
best practices,” Sikes said. “This is what we expect.”
  If any guidelines are violated, 
no further repercussions will be carried out other than those that already exist under federal, state or university regulation.
  Norman Lewis, a professor 
for the College of Journalism and Communications, is a social media user. He has a Twitter ac-count, a blog and a personal web-site. Though he says he always 
views himself as a representative 
of his employer, a protection of the boundaries between personal and public life is important. 
  “Social media is a means to an 
end, not an end in itself,” Lewis said. 
 University makes changes to social media policy
Human Resources released the document
OnCampu s
“It’s been there ever since I’ve 
been to UF, so I never really 
thought it would close.”
Janelle Guzman
UF JuniorThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
Today’s question: Would you listen to Ted Nugent lecture on American politics?  
123 TOTAL VOTES69% YES31% NOTuesday’s question: Are you glad the Miami Heat did not win the NBA Finals this year?Turn the page
With every passing 
day , it becomes clearer that noth-
ing will stop the Republican Party from living up to Jack 
Kennedy’s “circus elephant” 
characterization. On the na-tional level, a clown car full of jokers, white sepulchers and those named Michele Bach-mann continue to wallow in their own intellectual feces. 
Here in the Sunshine 
State, we have a criminal-in-
chief and a herd of minions 
who are hell-bent in starving our state into a privatized penal colony.
You would think Alachua 
County , given its reputation as a protector of hippies, god-less commies and those who have an independent thought, 
couldn’t possibly pull off the 
Horrid Trinity . 
But glory be to our lord 
and savior Ronald Reagan, Stafford Jones and the Alach-ua County Republican Party have pulled off the Triple Crown as they have invited Ted Nugent to bestow local Republicans with his flawless insight into the political pro-
cess at a party event sched-
uled to take place in the fall.
For those of you playing 
the home game, this is the same Ted Nugent who po-
litely suggested that Hillary 
Clinton, whom he eloquently referred to as a “worthless bitch,” ride a machine gun into the sunset like a pony.
Aren’t you excited to hear 
what fiscal revelations the “Motor City Madman” will 
bestow on our bastion of tea-
bagger intellectuals.  
No? Neither are we. In the 
words of a great conservative philosopher, it’s time to for Ted and Republicans to “turn the page.” 
(Editor’s Note: Y ou may cut 
our funding and our rights, but 
you will never cut our right to 
make corny classic rock puns!)Tip of the cap
For those about to leave 
us, we salute you 
What a six weeks it’s been.
For most students, Summer A is a time to get 
caught up on a few classes, earn a little coin on the 
side or it’s just a little pocket of time used to delay the respon-
sibilities of the grown-up world (if only there was a plethora of 
jobs with 3-hour workdays that required copious amounts of 
boozing in between — damn you, recession!)
For some of you, this is, in fact, your final stand. Your time 
has come to take the world by the testicles and drag it down a trail of awesome. For others, this is where “the fun ends,” and the journey to the parents’ couch begins. 
Whether you’re a redshirt super-senior or a clueless fresh-
man who still has no idea what the hell is going on (trust us, nei-ther do we), we appreciate you and what you contribute to our 
university . It may sound hokey , but y’all are the reason we go to 
an asbestos-filled shoebox to provide you with this paper. 
To those leaving: Thanks for making our university a great 
institution. Though the economic tides are rough and the op-portunities may not seem as prevalent as they once were, you are fully capable of doing great things. 
For those remaining: In a little over a week, this campus 
will be somewhat flooded with new bodies. These new Gators, many of whom were the best and the brightest in high school, 
are about to get smacked by reality — HARD. While it may be 
fun to sit back and laugh as Darwinism takes its course, remem-ber the unhealthy amount of awkwardness and nervousness you felt stepping onto this campus for the first time as a stu-dent. If you see them with a map looking lost, help them out and show them the ropes. Who knows, they may be the next Student Body president or the next editor-in-chief of this paper.
But one thing is for sure, if they stay for the full four (five … 
six … ) years, they’ll come out winning.
When in Rome, screw up as they do
We’ve been told that history repeats itself. We study history to learn from humanity’s past. We try to build on its triumphs and never repeat its failures. 
Many empires have had their time in the sun: the Egyptians, Mongols, Chinese, British, Incas and the list goes on. 
For the United States, the most relevant history to study 
comes from Rome.
The parallels between our country and Rome are strik-
ing, from the very beginning to our current predicament. Both were grounded in agrarianism in their respective in-fancies. Both governments were based on mixed constitu-tions, a blend of democracy , aristocracy and monarchy . We overthrew King George II;  Rome overthrew Rex Tarquinius Superbus. Both lands expanded greatly in a short amount of 
time, but more importantly, both were not initially hellbent 
on empire building.
Eventually both were pulled onto the international stage 
after a major war. Rome became more significant after defeat-ing Carthage, and a sleepy United States rose to eminence following World War I. Afterward, both used their militar -
ies to forge an empire. Rome grew to engulf the rim of the Mediterranean, and the United States extended its influence practically everywhere.  
Ultimately , Rome began to deteriorate. Roman writers criticized their society’s moral decay, re-
minding me of a modern conservative critique of our society. Emperors even enacted legislation to regulate morality. This should ring a bell! Think about Republican stances on abor -
tion, gay marriage and prayer in school. 
The Roman populace became enamored with “bread and 
circuses.” Emperors viewed games at the coliseum, and the daily bread was doled as a way to prevent the poor from re-
volting. Is this analogous to us? Are we content when glued 
to “American Idol” or the Super Bowl? According to ABC News, a record number of Americans received food stamps this year.
Moreover, the ruling class of Rome became fat and rich at the expense of their people. They began to live opulent lives. Ring an-other bell? According to Fox News, the number of government limos has almost tripled since 2000. Decadence? 
Absolutely.
Late Rome also experienced eco-
nomic troubles. Upper-class Romans 
hoarded their money, tightening the money supply and choking the econ-
omy. Compare that to American businesses currently sitting on trillions of dollars and not investing. Consistent trade deficits plagued Rome as well (cough, China, cough).
Lastly, Rome was overextended militarily before its col-
lapse. The financial burden to keep the empire together and defend its borders was herculean. Similarly , we spend about as much as the rest of the world combined on our military, and defense spending takes up about a fifth of our annual budget.
The parallels between late Rome and current America are 
poignant, especially because they are so glaring — yet no-body cares. We must stop sitting around. Edward Murrow said, “A nation of sheep will beget a government of wolves.” 
Hold your representative’s feet to the fire by writing or call-
ing him or her. Attend a political protest to make your voice heard. Vote for common-sense, honest candidates. Write for a newspaper about your passions. You could even do some-thing extremely American: Run for office yourself! We can either try to be the positive change or wait for it to come knocking on our doors.
The themes of Rome’s decline are also evident in the de-
cline of other empires. If we don’t want the sun to set on us, 
we ought to make some adjustments. Realize these similari-
ties should be a wake-up call, a call to arms to fight history so that it may once again be “morning in America.”
Chris Ceresa is a chemistry sophomore. His column appears on 
Thursdays.
Chris Ceresa
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
I’m about to begin a journey into a jungle. This isn’t your 
typical jungle. Here, habitats range from indeterminate bars to packed apartments. Sustenance is in the form of ethanol. 
The male animals are characterized by Polos, reversed hats and the use of the word “bro.”
It’s dangerous out here, so I need a companion. Will you 
join me? Yes? Then let’s commence our journey through the cultural mecca known as Gainesville. 
First stop: midtown. No, today isn’t New Year’s Eve; this 
is the ordinary drunken hysteria of this locale. Yes, that guy is throwing up. Those dolled-up patrons on the sidewalk ahead? They’re arguing over the difficult decision of whether they should enter Standard Bar A, Standard Bar B or Standard Bar C.
Second stop: downtown. The corner liquor store is attract-
ing a lot of business. Yes, that guy is also throwing up. Wow, he looks bad. It must be his birthday. 
Actually, let’s stop here. We’ve seen enough.You’re disappointed, you say? Well, we’ve seen the best 
Gainesville has to offer — at least of what’s outwardly present-ed. What more do you want? If you’d like, we can go to the Hippo-
drome State Theatre and watch “Suds” in the company of middle-aged women. 
No? Well, then our journey is com-
plete. Thank you for the company , my new friend. It’s been fun.
Wait, I know what you’re thinking: 
Surely Gainesville has more to offer. We 
are surrounded by Florida’s young intel-
ligentsia —  some of the brightest young 
minds in the world. Surely there is more to this city? There has to be!
Ah, I expected nothing less from you, an astute, educated 
reader. 
BYou’re right. Gainesville is a typical college town in that it 
has exceeding potential and promise. It can offer so much. And it does — to an extent. I say “to an extent” because although 
much of this potential is realized, it is covertly veiled by the 
trademarked, attention-grabbing antics that SEC schools are known for. 
It is not all fun and games — or sometimes it is. Impres-sionable, new undergraduates play the hands they’re dealt and use UF for its intrinsic purpose: to party , drink and do the bare minimum to receive a sufficient GPA to enter the labor force.
But if we look past this facile perception of our diverse com-
munity and look deeper, we can see that something beautiful is hidden. We see smart, motivated people pursuing meaningful ambitions.
Less exposed are the thespians in the community who put 
on moving plays after weeks of grueling practice, the scientists performing exhausting research to advance their field of study, and the individuals involved in countless organizations.
Less exposed are the diverse, unique stories and inspiring, 
boundless goals of the 50,000-plus students in this seemingly one-dimensional town.
There are incredible people waiting to be met and waiting 
to meet you. If you want to see more, if you want to do more, if you want to live more — reach out to someone. 
So long for now, my friend. I look forward to seeing you in 
the jungle.
Abdul Zalikha is an microbiology junior at UF. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays.Yes, besides boozing, t here’s actually more to our townColumn
Abdul Zalikha
letters@alligator.org
Our tuition is about to increase — again. 
Our university is facing a budget cri-sis — again. And the Board of Trust-
ees has approved yet another policy that will make UF less accessible to working students. 
At the June 10 Trustees meeting, every 
member of the board voted to increase student tuition by 15 percent in the coming year.
Facing an economic crisis with no end in 
sight and a slew of attacks on education com-ing from all sides, students are beginning to learn two lessons. First, the fight for public ed-ucation in Florida is a multi-front battle. Sec-ond, we can’t count on anyone but ourselves 
to fight this battle for us.
In the past legislative session, the right-
wing state legislature and our extremist Gov. 
Rick Scott decided to balance the state budget on the backs of students and faculty . Just a month later, the Trustees and Student Body President Ben Meyers agreed to throw on a bit more weight by voting to increase student tu-ition by 15 percent.
Tuesday’s issue of the Alligator featured an 
article covering the 15 percent tuition increase, an opinion piece written by President Meyers explaining his vote in favor of increased tu-ition and an editorial defending tuition hikes. It wasn’t the presentation of the arguments that bothered me, especially since I’ve been on 
the receiving end of one-sided news coverage 
before. Instead, I was disturbed that neither of the two largest representatives of the Student Body — the student newspaper and the Stu-dent Body President — were willing to stand up to this new wave of attacks on public edu-cation.
Students need to come to terms with the 
fact that our list of allies has grown tremen-
dously short in the last few months. Most of 
our representatives in Tallahassee are more than willing to put us on the chopping block first. Our sole representative on the board, the Student Body President, buckled under the pressure of President Bernie Machen and Pro-vost Joe Glover and voted in favor of this re-cent 15 percent tuition hike. And even our stu-dent newspaper opted against standing with 
the Student Body against tuition increases and 
instead threw its support behind the board’s plan.
Unquestionably, 
our university faces a looming budget crisis 
brought on by Gov. Scott, but it begs the ques-
tion as to why we have a university president 
who worked on Gov. Scott’s Economic Devel-opment Transition Team. 
Undoubtedly, we have to tighten our belts 
in this economic crisis, but I doubt anyone on the board has considered starting with the UF President’s Mansion on University Avenue — not used as a home — or the $1.1 billion UF endowment, which increased by 9.3 percent 
in 2010.
President Meyers is absolutely correct in 
pledging his continued opposition to block 
tuition, but we should resolutely condemn his decision to support a tuition increase more financially devastating for working students than block tuition.
Whether it’s Rick Scott’s chopping block or 
the administration’s guillotine, students are al-
ways told to step up first and kneel. 
I’m tired of kneeling. Our representatives, even with their loud voices, won’t stand up for 
us. We can’t afford to wait on them to change their minds.The state legislature cut Bright Futures Scholarship awards by 20 percent per student, meaning even fewer students 
will have the opportunity to attend UF in the 
future. When education is under attack, the students themselves must stand up and fight back.
As one of 10 students protesting, President 
Machen and President Meyers can shut their doors, close their window blinds and drown out our cries with a little soft music. But as a mass student body, we can organize our -
selves, march to Tigert Hall, and demand that when we go to balance the budget, we should always chop from the top.
Whether it’s more budget cuts coming 
from Tallahassee in January 2012, the admin-istration’s block tuition plans, or the 15 percent tuition hike, we can defeat any and all attacks on public education by standing together.
Dave Schneider is political science and history 
senior and a former candidate for Student Body President.
UF trustees, Alligator made the wrong call on tuition hikeGuest column
Dave Schneider
Speaking OuttheAvenue         thursday, june 16, 2011
INSIDE: 
PG 9: Check out the highlight of 
our Man Issue - “A Day In The Life Of A Bro.” Also, Andy Ma-roon’s movie column ventures into the manliest movies of all time.PG 10: Need some tips to start that workout regimen you’ve been putting off for so long? Check out our article on the right ways to bulk up. Also, Carter Lyles’ Tech Effect column delves into portable X-ray technology.
PG 11: Editor-In-Chief CJ Prun-
er takes you into his own man-world with his column about professional wrestling.
NEXT WEEK: 
The Avenue takes a break next 
week, but be sure to pick up our next issue on June 30 for a pro-file on Gainesville-based Zom-bie Vinyl.
MANLY RECIPE: 
Courtesy of Epic Food Time, we 
bring you the recipe for their Fast Food Lasagna.  If you try 
this at home, you might not be a man - you might just be asking for a death sentence.
w 15 McDonald’s Big Macs
w 15 Wendy’s Baconatorsw 15 other fast food burg -
ers (they used A&W burg -
ers but we don’t have those in Gainesville!)w  orders of onion ringsw 1 liter of Big Mac special saucew Strips and strips and strips of baconw Lots and lots of shredded cheese
We would write out exactly how 
the Epic Food Time guys orga-nized their lasagna, but we feel it’s irrelevant. Just stack burg -
ers, bacon and cheese to your heart’s desire. Cook until you feel like it’s done, then eat with a pillow nearby for your coma.Local eating challenges test men of all sizes
By BENJAMIN BRASCH
avenue contributing writer
Eating is one of the most basic functions of the 
human body. Proving how superior you are is one 
of the most basic functions of a man. The sweet spot that lies in the middle is, of course, eating challenges.
Challenging a man at eating, something he was 
programmed to do, seems silly. But it’s when that man is on his quarter pound of stomach-pulver -
izing meat or a bite of searing spices measuring in at one million Scoville heat units that the chal-lenge starts to take a toll.
Many restaurants offer challenges that shake 
the foundations of eating and reshape the prin-ciples of what it means to be a man. Those who 
fall leave many heads shaking in disappointment, 
but those who bask in the warm light of gorged vic-tory are truly champions among men. Luckily for all of Gainesville’s manly citizens, plenty of local establishments have eating challenges to make anyone falter.
El Cinco LocoThe owners at 101 Cantina, 1632 W. University 
Ave., were redoing their menu and saw an oppor -
tunity for a bright shining star of pure burrito glory. Cantina’s five-pound burrito behemoth, named “El Cinco Loco,” is filled with queso, rice, black beans, 
lettuce, tomatoes, sour cream and your choice of 
beef, pork or chicken. 
If someone is brash enough to take on the chal-
lenge, they must complete the quest in one hour without the familiar comfort of a bathroom. 
Only three out of the 30 people who have tried 
the monstrous meal have managed to vanquish it. The fastest time one person ever finished the chal-lenge was 17 minutes, and he weighed in at only 
150 pounds. 
“It looks a lot bigger than it 
really is,” said Adam Culpepper, manager at 101 Cantina. 
Culpepper said the key to 
getting the burrito to five pounds while still keeping the price at $25 is a lot of rice, which also fills a person up quickly. 
All who finish the challenge receive a T-shirt, a 
picture on 101Cantina.com, and a $50 gift card to the restaurant.
Ghost Chile Pepper DawgGator Dawgs wields a fiery sword of vengeance 
in the form of a hot dog. After seeing ghost pep-pers used on the show “Man v. Food,” Otis Britt, owner of Gator Dawgs and creator of the most diabolical hot dog in Gainesville, decided to bring some into his kitchen. 
The challenge at Gator Dawgs, 1023 W. Uni-
versity Ave., mandates that the competitor ingest a hot dog covered with a sauce made from ghost peppers, three chicken strips and one bowl of na-chos. One drop of the ghost pepper extract used to make the sauce measures in at one million Scoville heat units.
“It will kill you,” Britt said simply. “Your lower 
intestine will melt.”
Britt said the burn people feel normally lasts 
about 20 minutes after ingestion. While in the kitchen one day, Britt’s son accidentally got some of the extract on his shirt — and within two days found the color of his clothing eaten away by the suicidal sauce. 
The extract is used as the base for a tear gas 
in India, Britt said. On the bottle containing the scorching potion there are five warnings to agree 
to before purchase. The fifth warning reads: “I am 
not inebriated or otherwise not of a sound mind, and I am fully able to make a sound decision about the purchase of this product.”
The eight victors who have finished the chal-
lenge have their photographs on the walls of Gator Dawgs. Those who have fallen victim to the chal-Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Among the manliest of activities is eating. Based on the popular TV show “Man vs. Food,” the above car -
toon depicts a pro wrestler ready to take on a burrito-man. Man’s time-honored battle against food has 
been well documented, and in today’s “Man Issue” of The Avenue, we’re proud to present our own guide to 
Gainesville’s eating challengs and five other testosterone-influenced articles. Are you man enough?
the man issue
see FOOD, page 10“Fight Club” 
“Fight Club” bleeds testosterone with every frame. 
Violent, anarchic and mind-boggling, “Fight Club” is the film 
equivalent of the psychosomatic nature of man. Explosions? 
Check. Car Crashes? Check. A man shooting himself through 
his cheek? Check. 
This film also has one of the best twists of the last few de -
cades. Most writers seem to feel that film versions of their books  
take away from the original story, but author Chuck Palahni-
uk found the film version “to be improvement on his novel.”  
Manliest Moment: When Edward Norton punches Jarod Le -
to’s face into oblivion.
“Rudy”
There are three times in a man’s life when it is acceptable to 
cry: the birth of his child, a UF loss to FSU and the end of “Rudy.”  
While it doesn’t have the standard formula of explo -
sions, boobs and more explosions, it does have the next manliest thing: personal triumph through sport, in this case football.  
Beware, men. Rudy is not a film to watch 
with your lady friends unless you want 
them to know you actually have those things called … feelings.
Manliest Moment : “Rudy! Rudy! 
Rudy!”
“Bad Boys II”
Not too many films can boast a  se -
quel stronger than the original.  “Bad Boys II” is an exception to that rule.
The Michael Bay-directed thriller boasts all of his trade -
marks. You’ve got your ridiculous car chases, excessive explo-sions and plenty of unnecessary destruction. Pile on the co-medic partnership of Will Smith and Martin Lawrence and set 
the film in beautiful Miami and you have pure man-gold. In my opinion, “Bad Boys II” is one of the most underrated action-
comedy films in history. Nothing beats a gunfight on South Beach.  
Manliest Moment: When Reggie attempts to pick up Marcus’ 
daughter and “Uncle Mike” gets involved.
“300”
At the height of the comic-book craze, “300” drop-kicked its 
way onto the screen.  Starring the manliest of men, Gerard Butler, the film is essentially about 300 kick-ass Spartans kicking ass.  
When the film isn’t attempting a story, it is essentially a mon-tage of insanely ripped men killing crazy monster things. And that is awesome. 
Watching a sweaty Spartans weave in between en-
emies while decapitating them in slow motion will im-bue enough “manspiration” for even the tiniest of men to rip off their shirts and start a long, soaring battle roar.  
Manliest Moment : “This! Is! Spartaaaaaa!!!!” Followed by a 
chest-kick into an endless pit.thursday, june 16, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Avenue Storytellers: A Day In The Life Of A Bro
By SHELBY WEBB
avenue writer
They’re a mystery to the outside world. You 
see them everywhere: in your classes, giving 
campus tours and swarming midtown on a Monday night. Their Sperry shoes, Polo shirts and those things your dad used to keep his sunglasses around his neck culminate to cre -
ate this breed of college men.
Indeed, since the birth of the college cam-
pus, there has been the “bro.” They are often described as drinking gratuitous amounts of alcohol, engaging in promiscuous activities and constantly in pursuit of female attention.
But who are they, really? I decided to find 
out this past Friday, by staying with a group of bros from the hour they woke up until the time they fell asleep — or passed out.
What followed was almost 20 hours of 
drunken debauchery, complete with disrob-ing in public, day drinking, the shortest-of-short khaki shorts and bruises that were a mystery the next morning. I have tried, to the best of my ability, to describe the day hour-by-hour. However, no students or groups are mentioned by name, and this account, by no means, reflects on everyone who looks like a bro.
But the group of guys I did follow bro-ed 
out all day. This was their story:10:50 a.m. —  Hammering on the doors 
begins, as each brother is awoken with sooth-ing screams, and an uplifting message: “WAKE UP PUSSIES, WE’RE GOING TO THE BASEBALL GAME.”
11:13 a.m. — We arrive at Kay Bros. BBQ 
for 50-cent drafts and what can only be de -
scribed as a breakfast of champions. The bros pound about two pints each to start the day.
11:45 a.m. — The group starts walking to 
the baseball game (already in the second in-ning), but gets distracted by the smell of stale beer and thrill of day drinking radiating from Salty Dog Saloon. Six pitchers are bought and split among the group.
1:50 p.m. —  We leave Salty and meet 
up with a brother who had just gotten out of class. The guys and their newest attendant, 
still wearing his backpack, swing into Gator 
City and buy three more pitchers.
2:05 p.m — Exiting Gator City, the bros fi-
nally start heading to the baseball game. The last bro joins the group fresh off giving a cam-pus tour to incoming freshmen.
2:30 p.m. — Everyone finally makes it to 
their seats at the game.
2:45 p.m. — The first shirt comes off.
2:48 p.m. — All bros are now shirtless, 
screaming, “SUNS OUT, GUNS OUT!” to a 
group of concerned-looking parents and their children.
3:17 p.m. — The game ends and everyone 
heads back to Salty. Between eight and 12 pitchers were purchased, depending on the level of drunkenness of the person being asked.
5:48 p.m. — The bros head to 101 Cantina 
to meet up with some girls.
6:15 p.m. — A waitress dares a bro to chug 
a drink. Seeing this as a test of his mascu -
linity in the presence of females, he quickly complies and orders another pitcher.
6:52 p.m. —  The bros arrive back at the 
house.
8:50 p.m. — Bros visiting from out of town 
arrive and reunion shotguns from beer cans commence in the hallway.
10:07 p.m. —  After getting dinner and tak -
ing a quick “frat-nap,” music begins blasting 
and drinking recommences.
10:25 p.m. — First girls arrive.
10:36 p.m. — The drunkest of the brothers 
begin dancing in a manner that can only be described as YouTube-worthy.
11:08 p.m. — A Backstreet Boys song 
comes on. Everything in the room abruptly stops and everyone leans against each other, swaying and belting their hearts out reminis-
cent of a preteen girl in 1998.
11:11 p.m. — The Backstreet-bonanza 
mercifully ends. Games of beer pong, civil war and flip-cup commence, but bros make significantly less eye contact with each other 
after unleashing their inner 13-year-old girl.
11:47 p.m. — The now-larger gaggle of 
bros leaves the house and makes its way to The Swamp.
12:05 a.m. — After squeezing through the 
flood of people, a vacant table is spotted. Thirty people share a table meant for 14.
12:16 a.m. — Pitchers arrive, and drunken 
shenanigans continue.
1:37 a.m. — The bros decide to leave mid -
town and head back to the house. A few of the bros are having profound “bro-ments” as they support each other’s weight and stum-ble down the sidewalk. Two people trip and fall when one loses his footing on the edge of the sidewalk. One bro is noticeably bleeding from the arm.
2:56 a.m. — First bro is noticed passed out 
on a couch
4:17 a.m. — Last group of girls, excluding 
girls dating bros, leaves.
4:35 a.m. — I leave, but at least five bros 
are still up, completely wasted, milling around the house.
4:53 a.m. — Last recorded drunk text is 
sent from a bro.
**Note: Four of the bros reported waking 
up in their same clothes the next morning.The opposite of chick flicks: a guide to the manliest movies ever
Andy Maroon
Columnistthe movie column 
CAVE OF FORGO TTEN DREAMS
If you're interested in the history of the human race -- if you're a 
member of the human race -- you owe it to yourself to see this movie. 
—Slate.Tonight at 6:30 & 8:30pm.
 HIPP
cinema
“’Suds’ is all fluff 
and good fun.” 
(Arline Greer, Gainesville Sun)
FRI AT 8PM
SAT AT 5 & 8:30
SUN AT 2 & 7:30
Students only $12!
Tickets at the Hipp Box Office
352.375.4477 / thehipp.org
TONIGHT AT 8PM
By DIANA LOPEZ
avenue contributing writer
Summer is upon us and beach bodies are 
longing to soak up some sun. 
Men who want to bulk up and show their 
summer physique need to focus on proper 
weight training and nutrition.
“The key is training hard with consistency 
and eating right,” said UF junior Michael Pe -
tresky, a personal trainer and fitness intern at Southwest Recreation Center.
“When you exert a certain stimulus on the 
muscle through resistance, you’re breaking down the muscle,” Petresky said. “The building up of muscle happens after you workout, for in-stance, when you’re sleeping.”
This is when the protein in your body repairs 
the stressed muscle fibers. 
“Protein is essential for muscle repair,” Pe -
tresky said.
Chicken, turkey, 90 percent lean beef, lean 
pork, top sirloin, cottage cheese, Greek yogurt, milk, eggs, soy, tofu, sweet potato, tilapia and salmon are all full of protein and are recom-mended as a nutritional staple.“I get asked so many times as to what sup-
plements to use,” Petresky said.
He believes there is more to gaining muscle 
than just using supplements. However, there is one supplement he finds agreeable, called cre -
atine.
Although creatine is frowned upon for ath-
letes, many average gym members do use it to power through their workout sessions.
“It’s the only research-based supplement 
proven to enhance performance,” Petresky said. “It enhances ATP [Adenosine triphosphate] use, and it pulls water into the muscle. That’s where people get the fuller look from.” 
This means that you are able to lift heavier 
weights and work out for a longer period of time.
According to Petresky, it is a naturally occur -
ring substance found in our bodies and in red 
meat.
“Creatine helps you get stronger and is not 
a stimulant,” said GNC sales associate Darrel 
Brooks. “It helps with muscle recovery and an effective amount will cost about $60 to $80.”
As with misconceptions among supple -
ments, there are also fallacies toward weight training.
“There’s a misconception that you need to 
work out like body builders to get big,”  Petresky said. 
According to Petresky, most body builders 
use isolation exercises that won’t help the aver -
age Joe in bulking up.
Petresky said the average person should fo -
cus on core compound lifts such as deadlifts, squats, pull movements, rowing movements, 
overhead press and, of course, the infamous 
bench press.
“People who want to bulk up should make 
those the focus on a bi-weekly basis,”  Petresky said.
Depending on the individual, Petresky rec-
ommends doing a warm up set, with lighter weights and three hard work sets with eight to 12 repetitions, working up to 12. Once you hit 
12 reps increase the weight, start with eight 
reps and work up to 12 again.
“If you’re unfamiliar with exercise form, edu -
cate yourself when you start,” said Petresky. “Don’t pile up on heavy weights.”
Spend two to four weeks using light weights 
doing 15-20 reps so it teaches your body how to do the movements; when you start serious 
training, it will be simple muscle memory.
Bulking up and gaining muscle takes dedi-
cation, patience and time. Petresky said the 
common error he sees is guys who don’t eat enough. 
“Take the time to see how much you’re eat-
ing,” Petresky said. “Increase your calorie intake until you find the right level for you.”
For more exercise tips, check out Petresky’s 
fitness blog at gatorbody.com.
By CARTER LYLES
avenue columnist
Good news, guys! The dream has 
finally been achieved: A Micro-soft research team has suc-
cessfully created a working prototype of a portable X-ray gun. 
Just imagine how easy getting test 
answers through a drawer will be, what a breeze mild voyeurism will turn into, how simple it will be to check out what the girls on campus are working with underneath their ... Just kidding.
The device is actually a handheld 
hybrid of an Optoma PK102 pico pro-jector, a Microsoft LifeCam digital we -
bcam, a FireFly MV USB near-infrared camera, and a Logitech R400 laser pointer which researchers have dis-covered creates a safe and portable X-ray machine that can be used to show physical therapy patients what’s really going on inside their bodies.
The device, which researchers call 
the AnatOnMe project, was tested on 
18 individuals chosen to participate in 
a test study group on the effectiveness of image projection on three types of surfaces during simulated therapy consultations. Out of the three types of surfaces, the AnatOnMe project kept the patients’ attention the longest 
through the sheer novelty of seeing 
their insides on their outsides.
Microsoft Research’s Amy Karlson 
explains, “People are notoriously bad at sticking to their physical therapy 
regimens.” Injuries, as a result, take 
longer to heal, and it has been report-ed that between 30 and 50 percent 
of patients with chronic conditions fail 
to comply with their recommended therapies, an average that AnatOnMe 
hopes to curb with its new device.
“There seems to be something quite compelling and unique about viewing medical imagery on one’s own 
body,” Karlson said.
The device can also take photos 
during a consultation, which can be printed out and reviewed as an ad-ditional aid and incentive for the pa-tient.
Developed on the Redmond cam-
pus in Washington and led by re-
searchers Tao Ni, Amy Karlson and 
Daniel Wigdor, the AnatOnMe project was presented recently in Vancouver at ACM CHI 2011, the Association for Computing Machinery’s Conference on Human Factors in Computing Sys-tems.
“This is an interesting new space 
because, despite the prevalence of 
technology in many settings, technol-
ogy has been relatively absent from face-to-face communication and edu -
cation opportunities between doctors and patients,” Karlson said.
So, unfortunately for all the guys 
out there, research into a handheld X-ray gun has stalled beneath the moral implications of what havoc such a 
device would wreak upon the female 
population of the world. 
But the good news is that at least 
when you bust your knee playing ulti-mate Frisbee, the AnatOnMe project will be able to show you exactly how long it will be until you’re back out on the field.10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, june 16, 2011
Courtesy of Amy K. Karlson, Daniel Wigdor and Tao Ni through GizMag.com.
The AnatOnMe project spawned a portable X-ray gun that enables patients to see beneath their skin.
Cantina and Pazza Bistro challenges have lowest success rates
lenge have had to be carried out, tended to with purple lips. Most 
say the challenge lasts hours after the last bite, as their insides have to deal with the uncomfortably hot extract. 
The Gator Cup Burger ChallengeThe new burger on the block hails from Daytona Beach,  but 
has not had much trouble making Gainesville its home.
The “Gator Cup Burger Challenge” now resides in the newly 
opened Endzone Sports Bar & Grill, 1209 W. University Ave.
The burger weighs in at a gut-busting two pounds and is accom-
panied by a deceptive side of french fries. There is no time limit in which the competitor must finish the $25 burger. All 10 competi-tors who have taken the challenge so far have been victorious.
Those who conquer the burger receive a “Gator Cup Burger” 
T-shirt in addition to a spot on the in-house trophy and a picture on the Endzone website and Facebook page.
The Inferno PizzaIf you were to choose a slice-of-life moment and equate it to a 
slice of Pazza Bistro’s Inferno Pizza, it would be the spiciest mo -
ment of your entire existence.
Only 53 people have survived the Inferno Pizza at Pazza Bistro, 
3841 SW Archer Rd., but 355 have fallen to the spice of this parch-ing pie.
The challenge started just over a year ago, and Marc Perotti, 
owner of Pazza Bistro, said it only came into being because of the small market of students who would be willing to try it.
This pizza has “ghost pepper everywhere,” Perotti said. A home -
made hot sauce of jalapenos, habaneros and ghost peppers re -
places traditional tomato sauce. Sitting atop the hot sauce lays eight habaneros, four jalapenos and three ghost peppers. Cover -ing the combination of peppers is another homemade sauce of cayenne pepper, vinegar and more ghost peppers, thus bringing the heat level to extremes unknown.
Each contender is allowed 20 minutes to finish the challenge, 
though Perotti said if the pizza is not eaten by the 10-minute mark, most don’t finish. Only one cup of water, with any ratio of ice to water, is allowed, but no napkins or silverware can be used. 
Perotti said that 75 percent of those who attempt the 12-inch 
inferno pizza challenge vomit, win or lose. One poor soul was sick 
for 18 hours and had to call in sick to work the next day. Another 
contestant had to have an ambulance called because he “thought he would die,” Perotti said.
If the challenger overcomes the blistering pain, they earn a spot 
on the “Wall of Flame,” free soda for life and a key chain. The re -
cord for finishing the challenge is three and a half minutes.FOOD , from page 8Tech Effect: Microsoft research team uncovers portable X-rayBuilding muscle requires consistency and healthy diet
Michael’s Oatmeal Recipe
Ingredients
w1 Cup oats
w1 Cup milk 
w1 Scoop of protein
Steps
1.Mix all ingredients in a bowl.
2. Microwave for 2-3 minutes. 3. Voila! A post-workout meal to satisfy 
the many.fitness  thursday, june 16, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
professional wrestling
CJ Pruner
Editor-In-Chief
No holds barred: one man’s journey through pro wrestling
Toward the end of my senior 
year of high school, my theol-ogy teacher, a behemoth of a 
human being who I’m pretty sure fought alongside the Philistines in a 
previous life, told our class to write 
an exhaustive, Jesus-filled, self-re -
flective term paper as our academic coup de grace. 
The prime objective of the assign-
ment: Find out who you are. 
As a person who wears American 
flag pants, randomly shouts Daniel Day-Lewis lines in public and has 
placed bets on women’s college bas-
ketball games (it was a dark point in life), you can imagine how an exer -
cise requiring extensive self-analysis would be challenging. For my class-mates, many of whom have just as much of a chance of curing cancer as they do of going to prison for in-sider trading, the topic was just as 
perplexing. 
Any idea offered up by the class 
was quickly given the thumbs down 
from Conan the Barbarian. “That’s not you,” he huffed at us. “I just wan-na know … WHO are YOU?!”
“Screw it,” I told myself. Jesus 
wasn’t going to help me after all the dead baby jokes I had made in eco -
nomics class. Plus, I still owed Him money from the Jets game. I did the responsible thing. I walked into the school library, walked past all the rows of leather-bound books con-taining philosophical treatises and sayings from the saints, sat down at one of the computers and fired up YouTube. 
After watching Flea Market Mont-
gomery for the 32nd time and a few bum fights, I somehow ended up on the epic  “I Quit” match from  “Wres-tleMania 13” between Bret “Hitman” Hart and “Stone Cold” Steve Austin. 
In terms of WrestleManias, “Wres-
tleMania 13” was like “Batman & Robin,” only with a tad more spandex 
and fewer puns. Yet buried beneath 
that turd mine of pay-per-view shows was the diamond that was Hart vs. Austin. For about 30 minutes, the two beat the living bejesus out of each other like they were two 15-year-old girls fighting for the right to get fertilized by Justin Bieber.
As Hart locked the bloodied Texas 
Rattlesnake into the dreaded sharp-shooter, a light bulb went off in my head. I remembered that whenever he gave his pre-match interviews, Hart would always turn to the camera and proclaim himself to be “the best there is, the best there was and the best there ever will be.” 
God had sent me a savior donned 
in pink and black trunks. 
I wrote a 10-to12-page term paper 
heavily based not on the theological proofs of Aquinas or the deontological arguments of Kant, but on a single catch line from the Excellence of 
Execution.
I rode that 
line to an “A.”
Ever since 
I flipped on 
the TV that one Saturday 
afternoon when I was 5 years old to see a bearded man with a voice that 
sounds like he choked down a buck -
et of pine cones wearing the outfit of 
a colorblind transvestite cowboy, I’ve been hooked to professional wres-tling. I’m not one of those guys who collect the action figures and live in their parents’ basement until they’re 40, but I’m pretty damn close. 
My peers have told me they can 
tell whenever I write our paper’s edi-torial because words such as “slob-berknocker” and  “jabroni” wind up in the copy. When I interviewed for the job as editor-in-chief of the Alli-gator, I was wearing my Hulkamania tank underneath my starched shirt and tie — you know, for good luck.
There have been times when 
I’ve woken up after Friday night bar crawls in pain, not from any hang-over, but from the Ric Flair chops cer -
tain sports writers subjected me to. But what’s the appeal? Don’t they 
know it’s all fake? Are fans’ lives so sad that they live out their wildest fantasies through costume-wearing, coked-out, mullet-rocking meat-
heads?
The answer: Ehh, not really. Sure, 
it’s not exactly feasible to believe a 
7-foot tall, 320-pound man was set on fire as a child by his brother who, despite being buried alive, locked into burning caskets and smashed with 150 gazillion chair shots, just cannot die.
But it’s fun. And it’s American. 
Anyone can like it. Women watch it because it they can get giddy below the belt while looking at John Cena’s anatomy. Men watch it because they can get giddy below the belt while seeing someone jump off of a ladder to crush an opponent (and, for some, because they get to look at John Ce -
na’s anatomy). 
It’s also a great conversation 
starter. I’m not suggesting you go up to that sorority girl at the bar and ask her if she prefers the camel clutch or the mandible claw. But you’d be sur -
prised how many times “WHATCHYA GONNA DO MEAN GENE?” yields in-teresting results. 
Ladies, if a man does offer you a 
“skull crushing finale,” it’s probably not  in your best interest to take it. However, if he offers a “stone cold stunner,” take interest but make sure he has money and protection.
Is wrestling scripted? Sure. But 
that’s the case with all movies, po -
litical elections and landing on the 
moon. The bumps, however, are very 
money. I don’t care if you’ve been spoiled rotten with every cinematic explosion, fistfight or Arnold one-liner, it’s not as boss as seeing a man thrown 20 feet off the top of a steel cage onto a table, then thrown through the top the same cage to have a chair hit him on the way down 
before being thrown onto a pile of 
thumbtacks — all in a 15-minute span. 
And that’s PG compared to the 
stuff they used to do with stop signs, barbed wire and fire chairs (yes, ac-tual chairs on fire). 
Will pro-wrestling make you tough-
er? No. I got chased out of my shower 
the other day by a bee. Will it make 
you smarter? Probably not. I’ve wast-ed too much mental storage space on the names of finishing moves. Will it get you laid? If it does, it’s probably the kind of sex that will have you in court a few years later pointing out the “no-no” places on the doll.
But it definitely makes you a real 
American who will fight for the rights of every man.
C.J. Pruner is the editor-in-chief of 
the Alligator.Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 4/4’s
ONLY $409
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1
The Polos
Roommate Matching Available
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    8-15-11-25-1COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-
ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. 
$800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call 
Cindy 352-443-2016.    8-15-11-25-1
Furnished,4bedroom,4bath,W/D,1st 
floor,$350/room, 3800 SW 20th Univ Terrace 
West, includes utilities Steve 352-586-6468; 
room-mate matching    7-5-11-10-1
$375-Well-maintained 4/4 SW Gville condo 
avail. starting summer or fall. Less than 10 
mins. from UF/Shands/Butler Plaza! RMM 
match, indiv. leases, private bath, walk-in 
closets, W/D, on 2 bus routes. Internet/cable 
included. Call 352.514.3398.   8-26-11-25-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse.
Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865    6-30-11-8-1
1/1-$600/month(39th St NW and University 
Ave). Spacious, carpet with tile flooring. Fully renovated with new appliances. Furnished, Washer/Dryer included. Min. to UF and Oaks Mall.Contact Maria @ 786-389-9718  
7-5-11-8-1
Furn.small efficiency,immaculate,wash/dry 
on premises,wat/sew incl,NS,NO PETS,1/2m South UF/SHANDS,2 bus routes,$415/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    7-7-11-7-1
4BR/4BA available in 4/4, Beautiful gated 
Countryside complex. $385/mo incl all utils, 
cable, internet, etc. Big Screen tv in living room! 
Looking for female for full year lease. Shahrouz.
ebadian@gmail.com or 386-454-8956   7-26-11-10-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
2 BR starts at $1029
3 BR starts at $1219Amazing townhome, includes:Cable w/ HBO and ShowtimeCobblestone Apts. Call Now!352.377.2801   8-15-25-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly
352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-2
One Month FREE!
Move In by June 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
8-15-11-25-2
Immediate Availability!
1/1 $549 • 4/2.5 TH $899
Waived move-in fees • Waived pet fee
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   8-15-11-25-2AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
8-15-11-25-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720
352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$579 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$579
2/2 *$699
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
6-30-11-47-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     6-30-11-39-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/1.5BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 
●2BR/1.5BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $590-625. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39377-7-42-2*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
6-30-11-39-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin-
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M 
Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south 
UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-
nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    
8-2-11-30-2
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.net
Clean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, 
stable, mature persons.
●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 
Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, 
WDH, CHA, carpet. 
●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-
rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock 
gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.
●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 
- $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our 
units are newly refurbished with all new ap-
pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and 
more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    
8-15-11-25-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. 
rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded 
kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on 
direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-
14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1600/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida room, private fenced backyard with patio, pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-5453    7-14-11-18-2
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-11-13-21/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or 
quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth 
call: 352 377-2150    6-16-11-10-2
1/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook-ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2
●Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage Blocks to UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry 
with w/d, large private screened porch. No 
Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $875/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836
7-28-11-20-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA 2816 W Univ Ave 1 mi to UF. 
Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. Avail now.
$1500/mo summer, $1600/mo fall NEG.327-2931, 376-6183              6-16-11-10-2
3BR/3BA Apartment
Internet & Cable Included
Available August 4th
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838!
8-15-21-2
Very nice Rockwood Villas Townhouse
3/3 for only $900.00/month-Great deal!
Large bedrooms, updated appliances, 
Washer/dryer, 2 pools, lots of parking
Call Jared at (941) 737-6997    6-30-11-10-2
1st mo $100 off. Near UF. Beautiful 4BR/2BA 
home. FL rm w/inground jacuzzi. W/D. Tile 
flr. 2-car attached garage, storage shed. 
Walk to grocery/shops. Avail 8/9. $1399/mo  
904-534-6982, kencarmgravs@comcast.net    
6-16-11-8-2
Great 3/2 House w/crpt & w/d (1100sqft)
Rent $1050/month with leasePets allowed  :)  Available June 1stContact Kathryn: kesamai@gmail.com4102 NW 21st Terrace Gville, FL 32608    7-14-14-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-11146-30-11-10-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/ 
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2175 352-665-8166 lv mssg8-15-11-21-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice,
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwash-er, ice, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. $1590/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg          8-15-11-21-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm floor plans starting
at $635. Washer/Dryer, Fitness Center,
Tennis Court, Swimming Pool, Sauna etc.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 10-5, Sun 12-4
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillas.com
text (Lakewood)@65586
8-15-11-20-2
SPYGLASS
Individual Leases. Furniture Pkgs. incl.
Washer/Dryer, FREE Hi-Speed internet.
Rates start at $399. Every unit an end unit.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 26nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass) 65586
8-15-11-20-2
UPPER WESTSIDE /
NANTUCKET
1 & 2 bdrm  Luxury Apts. Granite counters.
Parking avail. Walk to campus & stadium.
For info. call 352-872-4644
upperwestside@cmcapt.com
text: upperwestside@65374
8-15-11-20-2THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS, $750, NEAR 
MALL & UF. LOTS OF PARKING, CORNER 
UNIT, HAS OWN W+D D.AGUIRRE.
AZOCAR@GMAIL.COM OR 347.878.9072   
AVAILABLE JULY 1.    7-5-11-10-2
2BR HOUSE
Private yard. Small dog OK. $650/mo 6200 
SW 13th St. 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   6-28-11-8-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pris-
tine Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, 
hdwd flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to 
Shands/UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-
1458    6-28-11-8-2
4bed/4 bath condo available on
7/31. $275 per person.1.5 miles
from UF; on bus line. All appli-
ances &some furniture included.
Call J. Erney at 352-328-1266.   7-7-11-10-2
LARGE 1 Bedrooom Condo in
HAILE PLANTATION
on GOLFCOURSE next to
POOL & CLUBHOUSE.
Beautiful Tranquil location just minutes from 
U.F. 2nd Floor Unit $750 per month.
MCHENRYSCOTT@HOTMAIL.COM
407-493-4748
6-16-11-5-2
***FALL RENTAL***
4,5,6+ Bdrm Houses for Rent
Call Eric @ 352-682-7424
Ask abt Family Discounts
Immediate Move-In Available
8-15-11-17-2
3240 NW 41st Ave. On bus rte. 3BR/1BA 
house. Quiet neighborhood, W/D, DW, cent A/C, screened porch, fenced yard, pet friend-ly. Avail 8/1. $1000/mo. 1st + security. 407-509-4574    6-30-11-6-2
NOW LEASING FOR FALL!!
3 and 4 bedroom houses, Close to Campus!
Starting at $1095.00
www.associatesrealty.com
352-372-7755
6-16-11-4-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   8-31-11-24-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    8-31-11-24-2
**WALK TO UF** 617 NW 19th ST. 
4BR/2BTH. 1600/mo. Park cars for games, make money while you rent!!! Avail Aug 1. Wood floors, washer/dryer. Call (803)413-
8669.    6-28-11-3-2MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLKS TO UF
Wood Floors or Carpet $500/Mo
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
1216 SW 3rd Avenue
GRAD II Apts
1BR & 2BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. 1BR $500/Mo
2BR-$800/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue
Marcott Apts
1BR 1BA $500/Mo
Central H & Air, 600 Sq. Ft.
Carpet, No Laundry
1029 Sw 3rd Avenue
RITZ Apts
2BR 1BA Apts $600-$675/Mo
Carpet or Tile Floors, No Laundry
1234 & 1238 SW 1st Avenue
Central H & Air, Behind Leonardos.
ROBERT OBRIEN APTS
1BR 1BA $400/Mo
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat
Gas Ht, Laundry on site2901 NW 14th St.
PICKWICK PARK
2BR 1 ½ BA Condo Carpet,
Central H & Air, DishwasherPool, Clubhouse etc. $675/Mo
4411 SW 34th Street #1005
3BR 1BA Home 3 BLOCKS TO UF!
Wood Floors, Central H & AirAvail late August. 1012 SW 3rd Avenue
$1200/Mo
3BR 1BA HOME NEAR LAW SCHOOL
Carpet, Central H & Air, Yard217 NW 36th Drive $950/Mo
2BR 1BA DUPLEX $600/MO
New Carpet, Window A/C
Nat Gas Ht. 6 BLKS to UF
604 NW 13th Terrace6-28-11-3-2
1st MONTH FREE 3BR/1BA
Newly renovated. Granite, hardwood floors, patio. ●OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY ●715 NW 
24th Ave. or call for an appointment. 904-303-5520 $1200/mo.  6-28-11-2-2
Quiet spacious 2 bed 1 bath house on large 
fenced corner lot,screen porch, washer/dryer hookup,pet fee,lease $750 available june 11123 NW 31st ave call 352 475 1586    7-5-4-2
1/1 Reduced Price Poolhouse
ONE MONTH FREE RENT925/mo. W/D covered patio. Pets OK.Utilities Cable Internet Included.e-mail laurencrunyon@gmail.com    6-28-11-3-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
8-15-25-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house. Male 
or female. No pets/smoking. Free off-street 
parking $450/mo. Includes all utilities, wifi, 
security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 
727-726-2915    6-30-11-40-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   6-30-11-27-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from 
Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. 
$325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837                                 6-28-11-13-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881    6-28-11-9-4
Male college student wanted for gated 
4BR/4BA Countryside condo, poolside, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, ear-ly stop on UF bus rte. Utils incl. $400/mo. No deposit  863-634-1893     6-30-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Countryside 
condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl.Direct bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless.Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-48147-28-11-18-4
Grad student looking for female students 
in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. $425/month. Includes cable/internet, utilities, W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.    6-16-11-6-4
Looking for 4 UF students to rent furnished 
4/4 student condo at Countryside at the University. W/D, pool, no pets, on bus rt, 1.5 mi from UF. 1st floor. Ready Aug 1st. $400/mo/rm. Call 386-295-7929 or 386-672-6969   7-14-11-11-4Grad student looking for female roommate 
who is clean and studious. Windsor Park 
furnished condo - 3/3, own bed/bath, on 
bus stop close to UF. Pool, hot tub, tennis, 
gym, $375/mo + 1/3 utilities. 407-361-1154.
6-30-11-6-4
Roommate wanted for summer B and/or fall: 
College house; 4/3: lg rooms, lg yard, fp & 
lg pool, walk/bike to UF or 4.5 mi to SFC, 
nice/safe neighborhood! Join the good life!
$375/mo +1/4 util. Call Justin 813-748-6042
6-28-11-5-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412      7-7-7-4
wanted; female roommate for 2BD 2BA 
furnished w/ own laundry. close to Shands 
& campus. $500/mo + utilities. big clos-
ets, 2 pools, cable & internet included. call 
Christine: 352.870.3806    6-30-11-3-4
LARGE 3/2 POOL HOUSE
Master Bedroom, suite, PRIVATE bath and walk in closet. 5 min to UF. W/D and all utilities included $560. Call 352-332-5030 or 352-541-6180    8-15-11-14-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
Perfect 2/2 Townhouse 3.5 miles UF 
$135,500. Master bdrm upstairs. New A/C, 
kitchen appliances, siding, and much more. 
Pictures, ect at Realtor.com MLS #319897. 
352-376-9756    6-16-11-9-5
HOME TO BUILD -- Suppose you wanted 
to build a house that was different from, 
and better than the local norm; a house 
with grace and proportion, a house which 
felt more like a friendly, solid and enfolding 
home, and less like an ungainly, manufac-
tured and impersonal structure. Please call 
Dee or Arty at A&M Restoration (316-0374 
or 371-4259).     6-16-11-2-5
THINK YOU CAN’T BUY?
Credit score of 600
qualifies you to apply now.
Homes as low as $500/ month.
Oak Park MHC
4000 SW 47th Street
Gainesville, Fl 32608
Call Tessie 888-486-1607       7-14-11-8-5
New homes, 3.2 miles north of UF
3BD/2BA 2-car garages. Starting at 148,900
1659 NW 34th Ave - Model home
ForestCreek.me
Schackow Realty 352-514-5060       6-30-
11-4-5
INVESTOR ALERT!
2/2 in Campus Edge only $115kDebra Oberlin, REALTOR 352-514-6715ERA Preferred Propertes    7-7-11-5-514, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011
REMODELED! $46,000 1BR/1BA 
BRANDYWINE MOVE in NOW!
Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 352-514-6715 ERA Preferred Properties   6-28-11-2-5
Updated NW Vintage Charm
2br/1ba, corner lot, 1 car garage, near UF & 
downtown $95k Jeff Dautel, REALTOR 352-331-5374 ERA Preferred Properties    6-30-11-3-5
$177,500 - 4BR/3BA w/in-law apt, 1 blk off 
Newberry, corner SW 2nd Ave & 38th ~1 mi 
to UF. 2500 hsf, 2 car carport, Owner will sell 
subject to owner mortgage with good down 
payment 407-363-7198 or 407-234-1380    
7-7-11-5-5
NC mountain property must go. 4.5 acres 
with outstanding views and privacy. $25,000 
OBO, great for home or cab. (828)394-9298. 
Ask for Richard     6-16-1-5
Access Reverse Mortgage! Florida-
based: Application & closing in your home. Experience: almost 1,000 reverse mortgag-
es funded. Award-winning customer service. 
BBB A rating. NMLS #4566. 1(800)806-7126    
6-16-1-5LAND SALE STEINHATCHEE, FL 10 
Acres $39,900 $900 Down, $326/Mo. Great 
Hunting/Fishing. Near Gulf and River. Call (352)542-7835 cell: (352)356-1099    6-16-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   8-15-25-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 ★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-
11-25-11
STAND OR SIT ● POWERFUL MOBILITY
15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take 
apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-
erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & 
up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    
7-28-11-17-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   8-15-11-20-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
8-15-11-20-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    8-15-11-25-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
8-15-25-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
7-28-11-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 DAY PAYOFFON CASH VEHICLESPAY OFF TIME NEGOTIABLE352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKCASH VEHICLES $1000 AND UP!352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
92 EAGLE TALON $1499
89 FORD BRONCO $129994 FORD TAURUS $129994 TOYOTA CAMRY $2999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
00 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250096 BMW 318TI $3999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
01 CHEVY SILVERADO $599998 DODGE DURANGO $699902 CHEVY SILVERADO $6999352-338-1999     8-15-95-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLE $500 & UP!352-375-9090     8-15-95-12BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
DELL LAPTOP
17", Model PP22X, webcam. $250.
Call 352-371-1482     6-16-11-2-7
CASH FOR ELECTRONICS WORKING OR 
NOT!SMARTPHONES, IPADS, LAPTOPS, 
GAMING SYSTEMS & MORE. WE DO 
REPAIRS WE ARE LOCATED BY BEEF`O` 
BRADY`S ON ARCHER RD (352) 872 5881
6450 SW ARCHER RD
WWW.TECHMODO.CO
6-16-4-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03708-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
● Fresh Local Blackberries ●
Thornless ● Big & Sweet
U-pick $3/lb ● We pick $3.75/lb
Interlochen  386-972-1770
6-28-11-5-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock ready to ship. Starting at $995.00. www.NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N    6-16-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-25-11THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 15
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK, BUY HERE PAY HERE
CARS, SUVS, TRUCKS & VANS
30 DAY WARRANTY
352-375-9090     8-15-95-12
04 FORD TAURUS $5999
02 CHEVY CAMERO $6999
03 GMC SONOMA $6999
05 CHEVY MONTE CARLO $6999
352-375-9090       8-15-95-12
05 SATURN ION $7999
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
05 CHEVY TRAILBLAZER $9999
05 TOYOTA CAMRY $10,999
352-375-9090      8-15-95-12
DONATE VEHICLES, BOATS, PROPERTY 
and get a free vacation. www.dvarinst.com 
Helping teens in crisis for 30 years. Max IRS Deductions. Free Towing. Call (800)338-6724 Today    6-16-1-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
8-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
6-16-11-25-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Denise Fanning at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial 
Production department is now accepting 
applications from students only. 
Applicants should be available evenings 
between the hours of 6:00 pm and 1:00 am. 
Production duties include page layout and 
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is 
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected. 
Fill out an application at the front desk of 
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule 
and references. No phone calls or e-mails, 
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to 
reapply with current schedule. EOE
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            8-15-10-25-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-15-10-25-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  8-15-11-25-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
6-3-79-14
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonalrecreation and aquatics positionsCompetitive pay in great workenvironment! Apply online todayat www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
Net Enforcers is looking for a FT Junior 
Applications Developer. ExcellentBenefits. Please email resume toahjobs@intersections.com. EOE.www.netenforcers.com    6-28-11-14-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617    8-15-11-25-14
Exp. PRESSURE WASHING person w/ truck 
to pull trailer, pc, internet, cell; flexible hrs, part or full-time 'as needed', good pay. Only serious/dependable candidates, please. 352-870-6017 / shaneman@symo.com    6-16-11-12-14HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.50/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    6-16-8-14
CLERICAL/TECHNICIAN POSITION
Full Time
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Specialists
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A        6-16-5-14
Artist needs model. I have examples of my 
work and local personal references for you to 
review. decent pay. must have own transpor-
tation.352 246 3157    7-9-11-3-14
Full and part time positions available -
PERSONAL COUNSELOR
TECH SUPPORT
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
LINUX ADMINISTRATOR
ADMIN ASST
SHIPPING TECH
AVIATION EDITOR
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
Please complete an online application at 
http://www.gleim.com/employment.    6-16-
11-4-14
Bench scientist: BA/BS or equivalent. Strong 
background in immunology and biochemis -
try. ELISA experience or related methods preferred. Attention to detail; ability to record 
and maintain accurate notes. Submit resume 
to info@elisa-tek.com    6-16-11-4-14
PROGRAMMERS
A 25-year-old software company in Gainesville is seeking entry and senior level programmers. Full time positions available for work on desktop application. Programming experience required; familiarity with VB.NET and SQL Server a plus. Seeking dynamic and hard-working individuals. Resumes to employment@elitesoftware.com or call 352-335-3800 ext 831   6-16-11-4-14Nanny needed. Overnights.
Newborn twins.8pm-8am Mon -Th
exp/ refs req Sharyn@jaxnanny.com            6-30-11-6-14
Quality child caring center is looking for 
dedicated people who love working with 
children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, 
AA or BA in education. Benefits avail -
able with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481  
6-28-11-5-14
NANNY WANTED for our two young boys in 
our High Springs home. M/T/Th 12-5, W 8-1. 
We kindly request light housekeeping while 
they nap. Would prefer long-term commit-
ment. Nanny experience a must.
Please join our family!   Inq to:
nanny@explorationsunlimited.com    6-16-
2-14
Artist / Craftsman is offering a apprenticeship 
designed to provide a opportunity to learn 
fundamental building skills. Decent pay ,flex-
ible hours, hard work, must have transporta-
tion. 246 3157      6-28-11-2-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly work
Flexible schedules
$8 an hour to start
Apply online at RGIS.COM    6-30-11-3-14
Seeking detail oriented, computer savvy per-
son who can thrive in a non-crowded high 
tech workplace. Part-time position requires 
working every weekend. Equal opportunity, 
drug free workplace. Apply in the About Us 
section of www.myGTN.tv    6-16-1-14CALL NOW! Top 5% Pay! Excellent Benefits. 
300 New T660's. Need 2 months CDL-A 
Driving Exp. (877)258-8782 www.melt-
ontruck.com    6-16-1-14
Drivers Earn Up to 39¢/mi HOME SEVERAL 
NIGHTS & WEEKENDS 1 yr OTR Flatbed 
exp. Call: (800)572-5489 Joy ext. 238 Susan 
ext. 227 SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC    
6-16-1-14
Drivers- No Experience- No Problem. 100% 
Paid CDL Training. Immediate Benefits. 
20/10 program. Trainers Earn up to 49¢ per 
mile! CRST VAN EXPEDITED (800)326-
2778 www.JoinCRST.com    6-16-1-14
CDL-A Drivers - Relocate for Tons of Great 
Paying Texas Oilfield work! Great company/
Paid benefits! Must have bulk pneumatic 
trailer experience. Call today! (800)491-9029    
6-16-1-14
Driver- Great Miles! Great Pay! $1000 Sign-
on for experienced CO's & $1500 Incentives 
for O/O's. Driver Academy Refresher Course 
available. recruit@ffex.net. (855)356-7121    
6-16-1-14
Drivers - CDL-A Start up to 43¢ per mile!! 
SIGN-ON BONUS!! GREAT HOME 
TIME!!! Lease purchase available. 
Experience Req'd. (800)441-4271 x FL-100 
HornadyTransportation.com
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!16, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   8-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  8-15-11-25-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
8-15-25-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    8-15-11-31-15BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
CPR, First Aid, Basic Life Support,
Advanced Cardiac Life Support Classes
Offered at your schedule. Best prices in town. 
Call Cardiac One today (352)494-4217
7-5-11-10-15
Bankruptcy, Foreclosure Defense, Consumer 
Rights. Peter Kelegian, Attorney at Law, 
Gainesville, Florida. Free no obligation con-
sultation. Serving counties throughout North 
Florida. (352)672-6444. peter@kelegianlaw.
com     6-16-1-15
ALLIED HEALTH career training-Attend col-
lege 100% online. Job placement assistance. 
Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. 
SCHEV certified. Call (800)481-9409 www.
CenturaOnline.com     6-16-1-15
Movie Extras Earn up to $250 per day To 
stand in the backgrounds for a major film 
production experience not required. All looks 
needed. Call NOW!!! (877)435-5877     6-16-
1-15
$$$ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com     6-16-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Paralegal, *Accounting, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. Call (888)203-3179, www.CenturaOnline.com     6-16-1-15AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for high 
paying Aviation Career. FAA approved pro-
gram. Financial aid if qualified - Job place -
ment assistance. CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (877)741-9260.     6-16-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)994-9904    
6-16-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
8-15-25-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
8-15-25-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
8-15-11-25-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
THE SMOKELESS CIGARETTE,
E-Cig is popular and may be just the product to help a friend or loved one stop smoking.www.dnobles.myinlife.com    6-16-4-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
8-15-25-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
8-15-11-25-18
LOCAL IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, H1B's, Employment 
Green Cards, & Natz
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
6-28-10-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Peace begins with you.
Award-winning 'Words of Peace'Cox CH 21: Sun 7pm; Thurs & Sun
1:30am; Sat 1am or www.wopg.org
352-373-5578  floridaconnect.net       8-15-
11-25-20
CPR/ FIRST AID/ WILDERNESS FIRST 
AID/ LIFEGUARDINGMeets internship and health majorrequirementsFloridaheartsaver.org 575-0119    7-28-11-15-20
Advertise in Over 100 Papers through-
out Florida for One Low Rate. Advertising 
Networks of Florida, Put us to work for You! 
(866)742-1373 www.florida-classifieds.com.    
6-16-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 17
Sports
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
alligatorSports PODCAST alligatorSports.org GATOR GREAT DANNY WUERFFEL HOSPITALIZED
n Don’t miss our extensive coverage of the College World 
Series live from Omaha, Neb., as sports editor Jesse 
Simonton will make the long trek to the Midwest to bring you non-stop baseball coverage as the top-ranked Gators attempt to capture their first-ever baseball championship. n Former Gators quarterback and Heisman trophy winner 
Danny Wuerffel has been hospitalized after being diag -
nosed with Guillain Barre Syndrome, a rare disorder with potentially lethal effects. Wuerffel is expected to make a full recovery, according to the Associated Press. n In a busy week of sports entertainment, 
the crew joins host Jesse Simonton for a quick jam session on the CWS, the Stan -
ley Cup, The Facilitator and Gold Cup ac -
tion. Subscribe and download on iTunes.  JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
In the opening baseball me-
dia session in February — still 
stinging from a bitterly short trip 
nearly eight months before — the top-ranked Gators spoke about their motivation to get back to the 
College World Series. 
Florida players lamented 
how they were nervous, over -
whelmed, excited but ultimately 
blind to the environment they 
walked into. Yet every player and 
coach was quick to respond that if the opportunity presented it-self to get back to Omaha, Neb., 
things would be different.   
“As a coach, you can give a 
player a lot. You can coach a lot 
of different ways and give them lots of things to improve on,” UF 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan said in 
February. “But one thing a coach can not give a player is experi-ence.”
A year ago, the Gators trekked 
to the CWS wide-eyed and con-tent. Fresh off a Super Regional 
sweep of perennial powerhouse Miami, Florida strolled into Omaha with a sense of accom-plishment, a feeling that the hard part was already past them.  
But after UCLA and Florida 
State drubbed UF twice en route to an early exit, a long plane ride home wasn’t quite so enjoyable. 
“I hate to say it, but everybody 
was just happy we got there,” se-nior second baseman Josh Adams said. 
“This year, it’s different be-
cause everybody knows we ex-
pected to be there. Don’t get me 
wrong — we’re thrilled we’re go-ing — but there’s that little thing in the back of our minds that we knew where we were going to be 
at this point. We just have to stay 
focused on the task at hand.”
Florida left for the CWS on 
Wednesday, a day earlier than a season ago, charged with a re-newed mental approach to the 
circus that awaits. 
After reaching the CWS for the 
second straight season — a feat 
never accomplished in school Florida takes business-like attitude back to Omaha
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
No. 2 national seed Florida left Gainesville on Wednesday to travel to the College World Series in Oma -
ha, Neb. The Gators said they are focused this year after distractions led to an early exit in 2010. 
Lake LeBegone. 
Garrison Keillor’s famous 
fictional town was due for a 
21st Century update. Luckily, King 
James made it possible.
No longer are “all the women 
strong, all the men good looking 
and all the children above aver -
age.” 
Now their lives all suck. Well, ac-
cording to LeBron anyways. 
In what is becoming an annual 
summer tradition like the Kentucky 
Derby or a Kardashian engagement, the Pied Piper is in a world of Heat after having the audacity to go Rick 
James on his haters after shrinking 
in the playoffs again. 
Antagonizing critics with, “I’m 
rich b**** and ya’ll better remem-ber how much better my life is than yours” 
is not the way 
to address an-other failed opportunity. 
W a i t , 
should I clarify what I wrote? 
How many times can LeBron say 
something stupid and then retract 
the same remarks one news cycle 
later?
His petulant whining is becom-
ing increasingly maddening. James’ 
ignorant comments only provide 
further fodder for his detractors. 
Citing “God’s plan” in a tweet is What everyone Witnessed
Jesse Simonton
Simon Says
jsimonton@alligator.orgSEE BASEBALL, p AGE 20
SEE JESSE, p AGE 19UF BASKETBALL
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
mwatts@alligator.org
 
Listening to sophomore Patric Young 
talk about Florida’s season-ending loss in 
March at the NCAA Tournament, it’s clear 
he hasn’t put the game behind him. 
Despite contributing solid minutes as a 
freshman and being eyed as a potential se-
lection in the NBA draft, Young said losing 
74-71 to Butler in overtime at the Elite Eight motivated him to come back and improve.
“We felt we shouldn’t have lost that 
game,” he said recently while being inter -
viewed regarding his invitation to the U-19 USA Basketball camp. 
“I’m going to avenge myself from last 
season, (from) that last game that we lost,” 
he said.  “We’re going to come back and we’re going to work together as a team. I 
want to be the guy that can push my team-mates and help us get to that point to make it to a national championship this year.”
But the team that was three wins away 
from a title is no more. Southeastern Conference Player of the Year Chan-dler Parsons, Vernon 
Macklin and Alex Tyus 
are gone, and the path for Young is wide open.
If the 6-foot-9 sopho-
more is to make good on 
his goals, it will be with a completely dif-ferent lineup and larger personal role — something Young said he is comfortable with.
“There’s a role to be filled in the big man Motivated Young hoping 
to fuel guard-heavy Gators
SEE HOOpS, p AGE 19UF plays Texas at 7 p.m. Saturday in Game 1 on ESPN
“As a coach, you can give a 
player a lot. You can coach 
a lot of different ways and 
give them lots of things to 
improve on. But one thing 
a coach can not give a 
player is experience.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coach
Young
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
only added ammunition. 
“God doesn’t care about the NBA Finals,” 
Jason Whitlock responded emphatically, and 
he’s hardly LeBron’s harshest heckler.  
For years, I’ve rooted against The Chosen 
One, but I always thought he got a bad rap, overanalyzed and maliciously scrutinized. 
No more. Not after Game 5 against Boston in 2010. 
Not after The Decision and the ensuing cel-ebration debacle. Not after he complained 
early in the season about how he didn’t ex-
pect this much vitriol when leaving Cleve-land, only to turn right around and say screw the fans. 
But most importantly, and especially, 
not after all the dancing, screaming, chest-bumping, hollering and lame-ass taunting during the regular season, only to disappear on the game’s biggest stage. 
Basketball fans don’t want some sick 
metamorphosis of the zoo, David Copper -
field and a Young Money concert. They want the world’s most talented basketball player to shut up, get better and play with a fire. 
LeBegone needs to go away for a while 
and hope everyone forgets what they’ve wit-nessed. 
 
n n n
A few more Finals observations...I don’t know which was weirder to watch: 
Dirk sprinting off the court after the Mavs won, or a healthy Chris Bosh goin’ down in the hallway like a velociraptor just attacked 
him. Did Bosh ever say what happened 
or was he breaking down because he was thinking, “Oh crap, they’re going to throw someone in the river and I’m the most logi-
cal choice?”
Truly, I was surprised Miami made it to 
the finals in year one of the X-Men experi-
ment. They’ll win a championship, but if it doesn’t happen next year it’s going to be re-
ally, really awkward for LeBron and Wade 
to hang out on South Beach. 
Unsurprisingly, all the Heat fans were 
MIA for the season’s biggest game. Mark 
Cuban calling them out on live TV was ex-
actly why David Stern hates Cubes but most everyone else loves him.
The officiating was horrible in the series. 
For both teams. I guess the NBA operates 
like all the local news affiliates that constant-
ly air Casey Anthony crap, “Well, hopefully no one minds their retinas burning and their brains exploding.”
I love that the Heat’s Erick Dampier was 
partying with the Mavericks after losing the NBA Finals. Nothing like stealing $73 mil-lion from Cuban and then saying, “I know I didn’t show up for the 2006 Finals and was 
always hurt, but let me help you finish that 
$90,000 bottle of champagne because I didn’t 
play against you.” 
Finally, these Finals reminded us of one 
huge thing: You can mix bologna with three 
of the finest deli meats, but at the end of the 
day, you still just taste bologna.JESSE , from page 18By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Kelsey Bruder always told fresh-
men teammates their UF careers 
only got easier after year one.
“I might have weighed more 
than my batting average freshman 
year,” said the senior left fielder, in 
reference to her .133 mark.
Having completed a senior sea-
son in which she batted .387 with 19 homers and 71 RBIs, Bruder’s time at Florida received a final crown Tuesday.
The current member of Na-
tional Pro Fastpitch’s USSSA Pride 
was honored with the 2011 Honda 
Sports Award for Softball.
The award is given to the na-
tion’s top collegiate softball player as decided by the National Fastpitch Coaches Association.
“To be recognized as the best 
player in college softball seems ab-solutely surreal,” Bruder said in an 
official statement. “Receiving this award would not 
have been possible without every single one of my teammates.”
The left fielder is UF’s first win-
ner, and only the second Gators softball player — along with Stacey Nelson in 2009 — to be nominated 
for the award.
Bruder now becomes one of 12 
candidates for the Honda-Broderick 
Cup, the trophy given each season 
to the Collegiate Woman Athlete of the Year. 
Other finalists include Connecti-
cut basketball player and 2010 win-
ner Maya Moore and Notre Dame soccer star Melissa Henderson.
The Broderick Cup will be awarded at a New York ceremony on June 27.
“This is certainly one of the most 
prestigious awards that a student-athlete can receive in college athlet-
ics,” UF coach Tim Walton said in a 
statement. 
“This is the exclamation point to 
a great collegiate career for Kelsey 
and her senior classmates who leave 
behind a legacy of greatness.”
A two-time All-American and 
2011 Academic All-American, Brud-er was at her best during Southeast-ern Conference play in 2011.
She led the SEC in runs, doubles, 
slugging percentage, hits, RBIs and home runs during league play. 
The 79 runs she scored this sea-
son were a school record.
After a freshman season in 
which she got sparse playing time as a pitcher and designated player, Bruder bounced back her sopho-more year to tie the school record for slugging percentage while bat-ting .369 and starting all 68 games.
She beat out fellow nominees 
Ashley Hansen (Stanford), Jolene 
Henderson (California) and Chel-
sea Thomas (Missouri) to win col-lege softball’s premier individual award.
Former Gator and U.S. Olympic 
swimmer Tracy Caulkins is the only UF athlete to win the Broderick Cup, taking the award in 1982 and 1984.
Neither Bruder, who was hos-
pitalized Tuesday night with dehy-dration and a stomach illness, nor Walton could be reached for com-ment.
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Left fielder Kelsey Bruder finished her career at Florida by racking up another award Tuesday. The former 
Gator received the Honda Sports Award for Softball, given to the nation’s top collegiate softball player. 
Wilbekin, four others com-
pete in crowded backcourt
position,” he said. “I have been 
working on my game to develop my offensive game, so when that 
time comes for me to step into that 
role, I’ll be ready and prepared.”
With the statuses of forwards 
Erik Murphy and Cody Larson 
still up in the air, Young and little-
used Will Yeguete may be the only two returning players in Florida’s frontcourt. Incoming freshman three-star recruit Walter Pitchford 
is raw and will need time to de-
velop before contributing major minutes.
Florida will depend heavily on 
its guards in 2011-12, a position of serious strength. The team’s top two scorers, guards Kenny Boyn-ton (14.2 ppg) and Erving Walker (14.6), are slated to return, as are 
Casey Prather and Scottie Wil-
bekin. 
Redshirt junior Mike Rosa-
rio, who Wilbekin said might be 
the team’s best shooter, will also 
see significant minutes after sit-ting out last season due to NCAA transfer rules. Plus, the Gators inked one of the nation’s top pros-
pects in McDonald’s All-American 
Brad Beal.
“There’s going to be a lot of great guards here next year,” said Wilbekin, who will join Young at the USA Basketball camp. 
Wilbekin, who turned 18 days 
after the loss to Butler, said he has been working on his shooting and ball handling in the offseason, and 
added that he thought too much 
was made of his age last season.
“I knew what I could do inside, 
but I just felt like I had to go out there and prove it to everybody else,” Wilbekin said. 
Now, the sophomore will be 
fighting for playing time in an ex-
tremely crowded 
backcourt likely 
to utilize a lot of three-guard, and potentially even some four-guard, 
lineups. 
“With this team, we have so 
many guards we’re possibly going 
to have one of the top backcourts 
in the league or in the country,” 
Young said. 
How coach Billy Donovan de-
cides to use that talent remains to 
be seen, but one thing is certain, 
and Young knows it as well as anybody else.
“It’s going to be completely dif-
ferent from the team last year,” he 
said. “I’ll tell you that.”HOOPS , from page 18UF SOFTBALLBruder closes career with another prestigious award  
Men's
Bask etball“To be recognized as the 
best player in college soft-
ball seems absolutely sur -
real. Receiving this award 
would not have been pos -
sible without every single 
one of my teammates.”
Kelsey Bruder
former Gators softball player20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2011
Florida focused, could face SEC foe Vanderbilt in Game 2 on Tuesday
history — the Gators know to anticipate 
large crowds, crazed autograph seekers and cameras everywhere. They under -
stand  the overall atmosphere of the clas-sic event. 
When the media met with players and 
coaches on Tuesday, there was an obvious 
message: Focus on winning, not on the en-
vironment and surrounding hoopla.
O’Sullivan led the business-like ap-
proach, organizing a team meeting Mon-day to clear up “all the extra stuff.”
“The hotel, the tickets, when we’re leav-
ing, getting prepared to get packed — just the detailed stuff that kind of crept up on us last year,” O’Sullivan said. “I think what happened last year was 
due to the way we prepared ourselves the whole week. I wouldn’t say we were satis-
fied with the season, but it was almost like 
it was the end of the road, that they were just happy to get there. 
This year, I’m hoping that they under -
stand that we still have one more step to 
take, and it’s going to be very difficult. For 
me personally, it felt like everything was kind of rushed when we got out there last year, and the next thing you know, it’s the 
fifth inning and we were down. I’ve just 
tried to do the best job I can, starting Mon-day night, preparing ourselves for Satur -
day night.” 
After addressing initial distractions, 
O’Sullivan decided to have the team travel a day earlier to get in a full practice at the new TD Ameritrade Park.
In 2010, the last year of historic Rosenb-
latt Stadium, Florida had just a 45-minute session eight hours before playing UCLA.  
“Maybe we fulfilled our season with 
just the trip out there,” Game 1 starter Hudson Randall said about last year. “This 
year we’re looking to get more out of it, go 
up there and take care of business. It’s not a vacation this year.”
Florida faces off against Texas in the 
primetime 7 p.m. slot Saturday on ESPN.BASEBALL , from page 18SCOUTING THE COMPETITION
North Carolina – As the nation’s No. 3 overall seed, the Tar Heels ran through five games in Chapel Hill to make it to 
their fifth CWS in six years. While UNC is anything but flashy on offense as freshman Colin Moran leads the team with just nine homers, its bats have been consistent in the NCAA Tournament plating 39 runs.
Vanderbilt – The Commodores made it to the CWS for the first time in school history, and did so without a single loss in 
their two regional rounds. Since falling 5-0 in the SEC title game to Florida, Vanderbilt has given up just seven runs in its last five games. Vandy is led by two first-round MLB draftees in Sonny Gray and Grayson Garvin.
Florida – After narrowly escaping a scrappy Mississippi State team in its Super Regional, Florida will need to continue its playoff power surge – 13 homers in six games – if it wants to avenge last season’s two-and-out performance in Omaha. Led by catcher Mike Zunino’s 18 long balls, Florida’s potent lineup will be tested early on by Texas’ equally effec -
tive pitching staff which owns a 2.27 ERA on the season – the second lowest in the nation.
Texas – As a six-time national champion, the Longhorns are a perennial staple in the CWS, but this year, lack some of  
the offensive pop they are known for. Texas leads the nation in sacrifice bunts and has yet to score in double digits in the postseason. The Longhorns .272 team batting average is the lowest in the field of eight. 
California – The Golden Bears are this year’s Cinderella story after the program was almost cut before the season began 
due to budget issues. As a No. 3 seed in its Regional, Cal is the only team not previously seeded No. 1 in the CWS field. The 
Golden Bears are led by sophomore lefty Justin Jones, who paced Cal with nine wins including thee complete games. 
Virginia – The top-ranked Cavaliers will look to drop the feel-good Golden Bears in Game 3 on the left arm of Danny Hultzen 
– selected second overall by the Seattle Mariners in the MLB draft. Although its pitching staff is statistically the nation’s best, Virginia’s bats were responsible for propelling it into the CWS  with a two-run, bottom of the ninth rally against UC Irvine.
South Carolina – As the defending national champions, the Gamecocks are looking to become just the sixth team to put together a repeat title run. Though South Carolina rolled through Connecticut in two games to make it to Omaha, the 
champs are still holding their breath on whether injured center fielder and reigning CWS Most Outstanding Player Jackie 
Bradley Jr. will be able to play.
Texas A&M – With a pair of aces in their hand, the Aggies will look to out-throw teams early on. Texas A&M received dominant performances from Ross Stripling and Michael Wacha in Games 1 and 3 of their Super Regional to down Florida State. But in Game 2, the rest of the bullpen proved to be streaky at best with the Seminoles putting up 23 runs.
Source: NCAA.comJohn Boothe and Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff
