We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 78 THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n How valuable is 
a UF degree? One 
recently released 
study investigates.
Turn to page 4 for 
the story and to 
see if your degree 
matters.n  The Gators soft-
ball team opens its 
fourth straight trip 
to the Women’s 
College World Se -
ries today against 
Missouri  at 9:30 
p.m. The game will 
be televised on 
ESPN 2.  
See Story, Page 19.CANFIELD, Ohio (AP) — The graduating class at an 
Ohio high school features a multitude of multiples: 10 
sets of twins and one set of triplets.
They make up 8 percent of the 282 seniors receiving 
their diplomas from Canfield High School on June 12.
Principal John Tullio tells The Vindicator of 
Youngstown the 23 students from multiple births all have come up from kindergarten in the Canfield school district, about 60 miles southeast of Cleveland.
Some will attend college with their siblings. 
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSOhio school graduating triplets, 10 sets of twins
By GABRIELA ROSIAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Price increases, a new coach and survey requirements 
have not deterred students from registering for the football 
ticket lottery en masse.
The number of students registering for tickets this year is 
on par with past years, said Doug Sutherland, the University Athletic Association’s student ticket supervisor.
The number of students that enter the raffle  each year 
changes depending on the team’s schedule but is usually be-
tween 24,000 and 27,000, he said.
This year, ticket prices were raised across 
the board, and student season tickets were in-
creased from $70 to $105. Sutherland said while students were not happy about this change, it 
has not stopped them from entering the lottery 
so far. 
Mario Browne, a 21-year-old engineering senior, said 
this will be his fourth year entering the lottery, and the price 
change did not affect his motivation to attend the games.
“Gator football will always be worth it,” Browne said. 
“Regardless of how the team does, it’s all about having school spirit and being there every Saturday.”
Undergraduate students are required to take the SERU 
survey before they can be eligible for tickets: a measure tak-en to ensure a high response rate for the survey.
Students have until 5 p.m. Friday to log on to Ticketmas-
ter for registration. After that, they’re out of luck.
By DANIELA GUZMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A recently released autopsy 
report has confirmed that Molly 
Ammon, a 19-year-old UF stu-
dent, died over Spring Break  due to alcohol poisoning.
Ammon was a freshman ac-
counting student from Tampa and 
a member of the Delta Delta Delta 
sorority.
She was found unconscious the morning after a party at a friend’s 
condominium at Madeira Beach, 
which is near St. Petersburg.
According to the Medical Ex-
aminer’s report, Ammon had a 
blood alcohol level of more than 
0.4, confirming the cause of death as acute ethanol toxicity.
Cecilia Barreda, public infor -
mation officer for the Pinellas 
County Sheriff’s Office, said offi-
cers were dispatched immediately when Ammon’s friends called on the morning of March 13.
UF officials are working to 
encourage stu-
dents who find themselves in 
danger to trust 
authorities to help them in alcohol-related situations, said 
Maureen Miller, 
alcohol and other drug preven-
tion specialist at GatorWell Health Promotion Services.
One such measure is UF’s new 
medical amnesty policy.
 The idea is hardly new, Miller 
said. She wants students to under -
stand that saving students  is more important than disciplining them.
UF’s medical amnesty policy 
states that an “individual in dis-
tress will not be subject to dis-
ciplinary action nor mandatory alcohol and other drug sanctions under the UF Student Code of Conduct.” 
“We are encouraging students 
to make that decision to call 911,” Miller said. “That being said, it is not an automatic pass.”
In some circumstances, third 
parties would be subject to police investigation, but Miller said the priority is getting medical atten-tion to the victim.
The medical amnesty policy 
applies to situations on and off-
campus.n ECONOMIC FACTORS CUT 
DOWN GAINESVILLE TRADITION
By EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Budget cuts have hit the holidays.
As a result of statewide reductions 
for public broadcasting and an inability to raise other funds, UF’s WUFT-FM, WJUF-FM and their affiliate stations have canceled Fanfares & Fireworks — the annual Independence Day 
eve celebration and fireworks show. 
Sue Wagner, spokeswoman for WUFT-FM, said the production costs upwards of $30,000, and efforts to raise the money 
through sponsorship failed.
The event, held at the UF Bandshell at 
Flavet Field, is free and open to the pub-
lic. Wagner estimated between 15,000 and 20,000 people typically go to enjoy 
food, live music and the fireworks.
Rachel Ahrens, a 19-year-old 
Gainesville resident and Santa Fe Col-
lege student, said she has been going to 
the festival for as long as she can remem-
ber.
 Her family and friends go to cel-
ebrate her July 3 birthday as well as In-dependence Day. 
“It makes you feel like a little kid 
again,” she said. “It’s a really comfort-ing, family sort of event. I’ll be bummed 
if they don’t have it this year.”
This year’s cancellation is the second 
in 21 years. 
Sunny
94/68
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 17
Harrison Diamond / Alligator
Spectators watch fireworks launched from Hume Field during 
last year’s Fanfares & Fireworks.
Fanfares show fizzles out 
Ammon
cAMpUS
Autopsy shows UF student died of alcohol poisoningNewsLocal
SEE FANFARE, p AGE 5Ticket lottery for 
Gators football 
ends FridayNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 78 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011
TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Free Medical Seminar
Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m.
Alachua County Library Headquarters Downtown, 4th floorAlexandra Livingston, a local 
registered nurse, will present a 
medical seminar where attend-ees can receive medical refer -
rals, assessments and informa-tion on community support services. The seminar is free to the public, and all are welcome.
NATIONAL
Colo. balloon boy parents 
say they’ll sell balloon 
FORT COLLINS, Colo. — The 
former Colorado couple that told 
authorities their son floated away in a helium balloon have made a video saying they’ll auction off 
the inflatable to raise money for 
Japanese earthquake and tsunami relief.
TMZ.com posted the video 
in which Richard and Mayumi Heene say they’ll work with Cali-fornia lawyer Perry Rausher on the auction. 
Rausher confirmed to the Colo-
radoan he is working with the Heenes.
The Heenes’ son wasn’t inside 
the balloon when it floated away in 2009. 
Mayumi Heene served 20 days 
in jail for filing a false report. Rich-ard Heene served 30 days in jail for a felony count of attempting to in-
fluence a public servant.
Terms of their probation say 
they can’t profit from their story 
until 2013.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Mallard duck nesting in 
Maine Home Depot garden 
BANGOR, Maine — A mallard 
duck is sitting on seven eggs in a 
nest in the lawn and garden section LOCAL
County imposes burn ban
The Department of Public Safe-
ty has instituted a county-wide burn ban.
The ordinance prohibits out-
door burning not permitted spe-
cifically by the Florida Division of 
Forestry and the use of fireworks, flares and other pyrotechnics.
Violators can face a fine of up to 
$500 and up to 60 days of impris-onment. Officials said all local and county law enforcement agencies will enforce the ban.
“Everything around us is a tin-
derbox,” said Chief Jeff Lane of Gainesville Fire Rescue. “We’ve had a number of brush fires re-cently.”
Lane encourages homeowners 
to keep dead underbrush at least 30 feet away from their houses to avoid fires from starting. 
According to Harry Collins, as-
sistant chief of operations for Ala-chua County Fire Rescue, a local state of emergency has been de-clared because of the level of dry-ness in the county.
“People should monitor their 
barbeque and cooking equipment while cooking outside,” he said.
— KERI SMITH of a Home Depot store in Bangor, Maine.
The duck is surrounded by 
hostas, impatiens and potting mix. The nest is protected by 
yellow tape and a sign that tells 
customers “Please do not disturb the duck.” Home Depot’s Brenda Hatch, who works in the lawn and garden section, feeds and waters the duck every day.
The duck showed up last year 
too, and employees put her in a box and relocated her and her 
eggs. But she returned about 
three weeks ago.
The Bangor Daily News says 
the duck flies off every day , but returns within an hour.
Experts say the eggs should 
be about ready to hatch.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Severed horse head found 
in Pa. city alley 
WASHINGTON, Pa. — 
Someone left a severed horse 
head in a southwestern Pennsyl-vania city.
Officials in Washington, Pa., 
say the head was found Monday in an alley in a densely populat-ed neighborhood.
Councilman Matt Stanisze-
wski says the decomposing head had been reduced to mostly bone but called the smell “unbear -
able.”
Officials removed the remains 
and disposed of them. Police are investigating.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFRIDAY SATURDAY MONDAY SUNDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
99/73PARTLY
CLOUDY
97/73PARTLY
CLOUDY
96/70SUNNY
95/70SUNNY
94/68
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 University Editor Alex Klausner,
  aklausner@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Editorial Board C.J. Pruner, Joey Flechas, Josh Isom
 Photo Editor Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Thomas Nassiff,
  tnassiff@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Corey McCall, 
  Briana Seymour
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Brittany Fink, 
  Kelli Folse, Bryan Holt,
  Lily Parkinson 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Johal Baez, Serina Braddock,
  Allison Klempert, Claire Grady,
  Alex Schultz, Justin Scott
  Brandon Stern, Lauren Tami
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stevens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
 By LINDSEY TERCILLA
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Picture the stretch between Murphree 
Hall and  East Hall. That’s how far UF stu-
dents living in the area nicknamed “the Murph” have to travel to do their laundry. 
This inconvenience to students living 
there is the result of construction taking 
place around the area, which is expected 
to continue until the fall semester begins.
The construction project’s purpose is 
to update the area’s look and feel. This involves new landscaping outside of the 
Murphree commons, including a new 
courtyard, as well as a complete renova-tion of the Murphree Common Area, which will have a new mail room, laundry room, bathrooms, activity area, conference area 
and a new common space.
Lauren Alderman is one of the students 
inconvenienced by the construction. She 
has lived in Thomas Hall, one of the build-ings in the area, for two years.
To her, the biggest inconvenience is the noise. She has to wear earplugs when in 
her room to block out the noise. 
However, she thinks the ends will jus-
tify the means.
Alderman said she realizes construc-
tion during the summer when students are gone means fewer students are being 
inconvenienced. 
“Hopefully, we’ll reap the benefits in 
the fall,” she said.
Juggling the ability to provide students 
with summer housing at different cost 
ranges, while still attempting 
to renovate historic buildings 
around these students, has proven to be difficult for the 
university, said Sharon Blansett, assistant director of housing for research and orga-
nizational development.
“Almost all of the residence halls have 
some type of renovation project going on,” 
she said. “We are trying to be as least dis-ruptive as possible, so we chose to do the 
project over the summer.”
The renovations are expected to cost 
about $1.5 million.
 SALES HELP MUSEUM 
COPE WITH BUDGET CUTS.
By SPENCER L. REEDER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Butterflies aren’t the only ones 
attracted to local flora.
More people than ever are vis-
iting the Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History’s Butterfly Plant Sale, 
which is now seven days a week, 
and buying plants that attract the popular insects.
Originally offered only on Sat-
urday and Sunday, the sale be-
came daily after this year’s Earth 
Day on April 22 as more people grew interested, said Jeff Hansen, assistant manager of the Butterfly Rainforest Vivarium.
In 2008, the museum made 
$30,000 from the sales. This year, profits have increased by four times, with profits totaling about $120,000, he said.
“We noticed a large interest in 
butterflies,” said Leeann Bright, the museum’s marketing and pub-
lic relations coordinator. “People 
wanted to attract butterflies to their homes.”
Hansen said profits from the 
plant sale help fund some of the museum’s departments after state budget cuts.
Each week there are 10 new 
species of plants offered at the sale, which are listed on the muse-um’s website. There is at least one unannounced plant each week, Bright said. Butterfly Rainforest workers 
staff the plant sale and  answer visitor’s questions.
“I always recommend two host plants and two nectar plants,” said Patti Winters, one of the staffers. 
The plants available are either 
native to Florida or grow well in the Florida environment. 
All plants at the sale are not 
sprayed with pesticides and some plants can be purchased in biode-gradable containers.
“We offer the rare and unusu-
al plants that you won’t find in stores,” Hansen said. “It has been very successful and brings more money to the Butterfly Rainfor -
est.”
Plants range from $3 for a 4-inch 
pot to $18 for a 3-gallon pot. 
“I’m like a butterfly,” Kathy 
Gayle said, who was visiting from North Carolina with her mother, Florence Kuttner. “I like bright flowers with the pretty smells.”
Kuttner was visiting the plant 
sale for the first time, and both women agreed they were drawn to an “aesthetically pleasing” combination of butterflies and 
flowers.
For the rest of the year, the 
plant sale will be open outside 
the museum’s front entrance on Mondays through Saturdays from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and on Sundays 
from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011
Bryan Doolin / Alligator
A construction worker with Mid State Inc., Derrick, who declined to give his last name, 
walks out of a construction site in the Murphree common area Wednesday.
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
A tree nymph butterfly is perched on a branch at the Florida Museum of Natural History in the Butterfly 
Rainforest Vivarium.
As profits soar, museum makes butterfly plant sale daily   Renovations to Murphree area to be ready by fall
By EMILY MORROW
Alligator Writer
Is college worth it?
An April study says once UF students graduate, they 
will be getting fifth-best rate of return on their in-state tuition in the nation.
According to the study conducted by PayScale, an on-
line database of employee salary information, students who graduate with a bachelor’s degree from UF can ex-
pect about a 12.9 percent annual return on their total cost 
of attending college.
“It’s a remarkable value for the amount of tuition you 
pay here in Florida,” said UF spokesman Steve Orlando.Out of 691 schools included in the study, UF shares 
the fifth spot with the University of California at Berke-
ley. The Georgia Institute of Technology 
holds the top spot with a 13.9 percent 
annual return on investment, followed by the University of Virginia, Colorado School of Mines and Virginia Tech.  
PayScale’s findings indicate that in-
vesting in a college education is just as lucrative, if not more so, than other in-vestment options.
Thirty-year treasury bonds, for example, have an an-
nual return on investment rate of about 4.5 percent.To produce these statistics for each school, PayScale 
found the median salary of alumni who graduated with a bachelor’s degree between 1981 and 2010, then divided that expected earning by the average net cost to complete a degree — a figure that incorporates a school’s average 
costs for tuition, room and board and school supplies. 
When schools were compared by graduates’ median 
30-year salary, UF sits 111th with an expected salary of 
$687,600.
However, UF had the 34th lowest cost of a college de-
gree of all the schools in the study. 
“There’s no question that a college degree is a good 
investment,” Orlando said.Study: UF graduates get bang for their tuition buckCAMPuSOnCampu s
Orlando
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Instead of flooding pools at various apart-
ment complexes, UF students might get their 
own pool to throw parties.
The project, the brainchild of Inter-Resi-
dence Hall Association President Severin Wal-
stad, is still in developmental stages. Walstad, a Unite senator, announced the project’s ap-
proval at a Student Government meeting Tues-
day night. 
Officials from IRHA have approval to begin 
conceptualizing the new swim spot. The proj-
ect is far from the building stages.   
Though pools already exist on campus, Wal-
stad said, most of them are fitness pools, not 
ones that students could use for recreation. 
“What we have right now is lots of large 
lap swimming pools,” he said. “One thing we don’t have here is a pool where students can just go and chill, you know?”
The pool would likely replace an existing 
pool by Broward Hall, which is typically used as a lap pool.
Walstad said he is looking to fund the proj-
ect out of already-existing money instead of seeking an increase in student fees.
The Senate also passed a resolution prais-
ing the student organization Islam On Campus for its efforts in sustainability and promotion of peace. The bill, however, did not go unop-
posed.
Senator Andy Schein was one of 15 to op-
pose the resolution, saying he felt the bill was 
too limited in scope and ignored the efforts of 
other student organizations. 
“I think Islam On Campus does great 
things,” he said. “But there are over 900 [other 
organizations] that do great things.”THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator
Senate President Micah Lewis addresses the audience at Tuesday 
evening’s Senate meeting.
UF STUDENT GOVERNMENTBroward pool may get facelift
In 2008, a shortage of funding threatened to 
cancel the fireworks display, but the event was 
saved by an anonymous $30,000 donation.
In 2009, budget shortages caused the event’s 
cancellation for the first time since 1990.
This year, again faced with budget cuts, the 
management of WUFT-FM and WUFT-TV de-cided to direct funds toward maintaining the 
public television and radio programming, a 
news release said.
Last year, the show was entirely funded by 
outside organizations, such as the University 
Athletic Association, AvMed Health Plans and 
the City of Gainesville.
Wagner said UF’s public broadcasting sta-
tions have been talking with additional out-side organizations and businesses in hopes of 
finding enough funding to put on a show in 
2012.
“It’s not gone forever,” she said.Officials hope 
show will come back next year
FANFARE , from page 1
“It makes you feel like a little kid 
again. It’s a really comforting, family 
sort of event. I’ll be bummed if they 
don’t have it this year.”
Rachel Ahrens
SFC studentThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
C.J. Pruner 
EDITORJoey FlechasJosh IsomMANAGING EDITORS
Today’s question: Would you vote for a Mormon presidential candidate?
165 TOTAL VOTES48% YES52% NOMonday’s question: Do you be -
lieve Urban Meyer when he says he’s not eyeing the Ohio State job?The “M” Word
GOP to Romney:“My Jesus 
can beat up your Jesus”
Sometime today, Willard Mitt Romney will unveil what 
has been one of the worst-kept secrets in American poli-tics as he formally announces his bid for the Republican 
nomination for president of the United States. 
Ever since he was bounced in the 2008 Republican prima-
ries, the former governor of Massachusetts has been laying out his battle plan for another run, locking up dump trucks of campaign cash while projecting his walk-the-tightrope 
conservatism through a book and the occasional Sunday talk 
show appearance. With a field of candidates that resembles more of a carnival than a political contest, Romney appears like someone less prone to getting his head stuck in the cot-ton candy machine. His business bona fides, which have led 
companies, capital ventures and even Olympic Games out of 
stormy waters into financial prosperity, along with an unwill-ingness to pander to the herd of conspiracy-thirsty “I-want-my-country-that-was-never-really-taken-from-me-back” tea-bagger bloodsuckers, make him a potential nightmare for the 
Obama administration, especially given the current economic 
climate.
But all these things could be quickly undercut by one ir -
relevant factor – the “M” word. 
For some conservatives, it won’t matter if Romney balances 
the American  budget with Monopoly money, beats back the Taliban once and for all with the corpse of Osama bin Laden and convinces the ghost of Ronald Reagan to run as his VP in the next 18 months because he doesn’t believe in their Chevy-truck-driving, tax-paying, meat-eating Chuck Norris version 
of Jesus. 
Never mind the fact that Romney, a member of the Church 
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has insisted that no au-
thorities in his church “will ever exert influence on presiden-tial decisions,” Bible-thumpers will quickly throw him aside in favor of a less qualified candidate because his faith may have a longer book list than other Christian denominations.
If the Republican Party ever wants to move beyond its 
image as the shepherd of those whose intellectual capacities came with an extra chromosome, this kind of religious intoler -
ance and bigotry – yes, it is bigotry – needs to stop. 
Make no mistake, we have our issues with a candidate who 
has the political conviction of a flapjack.  However, we do not believe, as Jack Kennedy put it during his bid for the White 
House in 1960, that any candidate was forever denied the keys 
to the White House on the day he or she was baptized. 
We find it ironic that many of these good Christian soldiers, 
who cling to every letter and comma of the U.S. Constitution, 
somehow manage to look over that one “technicality” in Ar -
ticle 6 that states that “no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the Unit-ed States.” Leave it to God’s fearmongers, the very ones who see any federal expenditure as equivalent to defecating on the graves of the Founding Fathers and using the Constitution as tissue, to sidestep the provisions that undercut their vision of “Jesusland. “
But because Darwin’s hammer swings slowly, these peo-
ple will have the same say, possibly even more so, in who be-comes the GOP nominee.
But it could always be worse. Go to Google and punch in 
“Rick Santorum” and click the very first thing that comes up. (Hint: it’s not a former congressman kissing babies.)
God help us all.While you sleep, Big Brother creeps
Big Brother is watching us. 
He’s listening intently to our phone conversations, 
poring through our emails, seeing what books we’ve 
borrowed from the library and scrutinizing our medical re-
cords. Big Brother is watching us because he is “protecting” 
us.
In knee-jerk fashion, following the Sept. 11 attacks, a 
shocked Congress passed the USA PATRIOT Act. Nobody 
fully read the legislation. The House was given 15 minutes on the floor to review it; there was no debate, only a vote.
It passed anyway, in the name of security.The legislation sought to expand the tools of federal agen-
cies to prevent domestic terrorism. Unfortunately, the PATRI-OT Act gave too much leeway.
Effectively , the PATRIOT Act grants federal agencies like 
the FBI the ability to write themselves warrants, warrants to listen in on the conversation with your spouse, look at your bank records, search your house and even plant a bug with-out your knowledge, all in the name of security . 
King George II had similar measures, called writs of assis-
tance. These writs were issued as general warrants to search and seize whatever pleased the English Crown, whenever it wanted. 
The founders were so piqued about writs of assistance 
that they included the Fourth Amendment in the Bill of Rights. The Fourth Amendment protects against “unreason-able searches and seizures.” It states that “no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause…describing the place to be searched, and the persons and things to be seized.” Thus the Constitution explicitly invalidates warrants without prob-able cause. Moreover, it limits them for a specific purpose; they cannot be blank checks. The Fourth Amendment is the 
basis for having a judge sign off on a search warrant, instead 
of an investigator writing his own. Clearly, the PATRIOT Act is unconstitutional in this regard. 
Additionally , it violates the First Amendment. If you are 
someone, say a doctor forced to show medical records to the FBI, then it becomes illegal to tell any-one that you divulged such informa-tion, including your parents, children or even a judge. This asininity is in-consistent with the First Amendment. 
The legislation also aims to gather 
information on “lone wolf” terrorists, misanthropes who operate without the backing of an organization. 
What exactly qualifies someone as 
a lone wolf? Is it just anyone who could do harm? Should the government be worried about chemistry majors making bombs? What about nuclear engineers and those political science majors intent on ruling the world? The distinction is 
difficult to make.
The PATRIOT Act is the tip of the iceberg to a larger dis-
cussion: the balance between liberty and security . Unlike 
decades ago, today it is difficult to pinpoint who is out to harm us. A frightened Congress believes this warrants spy-ing on its own people and violating the Constitution to keep us safe. It is egregious that Congress would rebuff its oath to protect and defend the Constitution and pass such blatantly unconstitutional and un-American legislation. We should 
be vigilant until probable cause is justified and then pursue 
within the confines of the Constitution, as we have done for over 200 years.
A dilemma arises when the powers of the PATRIOT Act 
become abused. Although it may be benign now,  there may come a point in the future when the government is more overtly infringing on our rights. It is better to deny govern-ment those powers in the first place. 
It is better to recall that our republic is limited by the Con-
stitution. Benjamin Franklin said, “Any society that would give up a little liberty to gain a little security will deserve nei-ther and lose both.”
Chris Ceresa is a chemistry sophomore. His column appears on 
Thursdays.
Chris Ceresa
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Every year, hundreds of thousands of stu-
dents graduate with Bachelor’s degrees, entering the work force for the very first 
time. 
For most of these students, it is the first time 
they will ever earn a steady salary and be re-sponsible for their own personal finances. 
However, this transition from school life to 
professional life is not overlooked.  
While there are a lot of resources spent on 
teaching students interview, resume writing and presentation skills, there is no formal teach-ing of personal finance matters. 
Yes, it is important for students to secure 
full-time employment in order to begin the next chapter in their lives; however, education should not stop at this point. 
Education at the tertiary level across the 
country currently fails to prepare students for managing their newfound income after they graduate.
According to Forbes, slightly more than 1.6 
million Bachelor’s degrees were given out in 
2010 — most of which were students entering 
the work force, and undoubtedly mismanaging their money. 
The lack of personal finance teaching in uni-
versities across the United States is not a small or isolated problem, but in fact contributes to the misfortune of many. 
The education I am advocating for goes be-
yond how to write checks and what bank ac-
count to open, but rather extends to modern 
day tips that yield monetary benefits.
There are simple personal finance concepts 
that result in large savings down the road, con-cepts that recent graduates would benefit enor -
mously from learning early in school. 
For example, 401(k) accounts, employer 
sponsored retirement accounts that many new graduates open when beginning their new job, 
have great saving advantages. 
With such accounts, employees are respon-
sible for contributing some of their paycheck 
before taxes into their fund in order to save for retirement. In addition, most em-
ployers offer some sort of match program that will match employee contribu-
tions up to a certain threshold, commonly 5 
percent of an employee’s gross salary. 
Because few students ever learn in college 
about how 401(k) accounts work, let alone the 
mechanics of match programs, they often don’t contribute up to the match threshold. 
By just contributing the threshold amount, 
a new graduate would essentially double their retirement savings at no additional cost. 
This is an incredible benefit for the future, 
one that is unfortunately often forgone.
While 401(k) match programs are just one 
specific example, there are numerous other tips that yield great benefits for the future of new graduates, benefits that are largely missed due to the inadequacy of personal finance educa-tion. 
The impact of learning personal finance tips 
on students’ financial futures will often out-
weigh 10 hours worth of class time in any core 
academic subject. 
For this reason, I propose that universities 
begin an important trend and establish a man-datory one credit, 10-week course to inform stu-dents in their last year of studies about various personal finance issues. 
This class would spend some time on the 
basics of personal finance such as the benefits 
of saving via diversification, how to budget ap-
propriately and how to use debt responsibly. 
In addition, this new class would also pro-
vide ample time for teaching specific tips such as always contributing the employer’s match amount in a 401(k) account, the tax benefits of opening a Roth IRA and how to automate the majority of one’s personal finances. 
Personal finance is often treated as an unim-
portant, boring subject, yet its teachings have a profound impact on new graduates’ lives, rival-ing any other subject learning while attending university.
Trevor Nederlof is a student at Drexel University.
UWire
Trevor Nederlof
UWire
Recently I was watching an interview of Dave Chappelle, 
who has faded from the public consciousness after fleeing the burdens of being an American cultural icon. 
The interviewer asked him about his education. Chappelle said 
that he was actually the first person in his family not to go to col-lege, and the first one who had “not been a slave.” 
Some of the audience laughed, implying a different interpreta-
tion of his comment, but Chappelle did not even smile. 
I believe he was suggesting something more profound.No, the university system is not exactly a slave system. But I 
do contend that the university system is in a conflicted, wrongful era.
What was the original purpose of universities? According to an 
early brochure of Harvard College, which is considered America’s first university, it was “to advance learning and perpetuate it to 
posterity.”
Not anymore. Today, career preparation is the vanguard of 
higher education. 
Universities bring in swarms of eager 
18-year-olds and probe them to determine 
whom they would like to serve and what they would like to “do” for the rest of their lives. Then they choose the designated major for that career.
During a conversation with my adviser, I 
inquired about adding a second major in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. I was 
quickly shot down.
“So I wouldn’t be able to stay an extra two semesters to com-
plete an additional major?” I asked.
“Most likely not,” my adviser told me. I felt like a worthless, indeterminate sheep being rushed 
through the system by my own university. 
Well, UF is crowded, I reasoned. But then I heard about the 
new spring and summer program UF is installing in an attempt to house more students.
Still, UF is not to blame. In a world ruled by money and power, tight budgets hurt com-
petition with other universities that have less students and greater endowments. 
The result is a Bachelor’s degree factory that pumps out stu-
dents who face grossly packed classrooms and stringent course options.
In the past, only the brightest young minds attended college. Now, college is the standard path laid out for young adults to 
assure a stable career. 
Even more to the contrary, we often witness the brightest 
young entrepreneurs drop out of college to focus on developing their products.
I do not mean to say that widespread education does not ben-
efit mankind; clearly it does. But learning is not the priority for most – maintaining a high GPA is. 
A student must maintain a high GPA and/or connect with the 
appropriate persons to land their dream job of manipulating mon-
ey for faceless millionaires as an investment banker.
 It is not reasonable to expect such students to take an interest-
ing yet difficult course if they are not required.
The phrase “I hate this class” and statements describing class 
material as “stupid” or “useless” are so common that they are as-
sumed. 
But if we don’t take these “stupid” and “useless” classes, how 
else will we land our insipid, life-sucking jobs?
Okay, I know, this isn’t “American Beauty.” It’s real life; we 
have to work to survive, and universities can still help us pursue, explore and understand our interests. 
But in moving towards vocationalism, universities have put the 
intellectual, social and personal growth of their matriculates on 
the back burner.
Abdul Zalikha is an microbiology junior at UF. His column appears on 
Thursdays.
Abdul Zalikha
letters@alligator.orgUniversity-wide course on personal 
finance should be consideredWhen students be -
come sausage: How education has turned into an assembly lineColumntheAvenue         thursday, june 2, 2011
INSIDE:
Everyone’s favorite indie band, 
Death Cab for Cutie, released their seventh studio album enti-tled “Codes and Keys” on Tues-day. You can pick it up at Best Buy for under $10.NEW MUSIC:Next week’s Avenue will have  
our first theatre piece of the summer, as we give you a peek into the musical “Suds.”NEXT WEEK:PG 9: Find out how to save 
money on groceries by buy-ing locally, and save yourself a headache by discovering a new iPhone case that will solve your autocorrect woes.PG 10 : Get introduced to “Kill 
the Wonderhawks,” a new com-ic series launched by Paper + Plastick Records.PG 11 :  Thomas Nassiff’s new 
Off The Record column cele-brates the birthday of one of rock ‘n’ roll’s most essential re-cords.
Museum receives largest private donation ever
By NICOLE LA HOZ
avenue writer
It became more than just a project. 
John Waldrop moved to Gainesville his sophomore year 
of high school. And when his new biology teacher assigned a 
project, he knew exactly what he wanted to do. 
There was a creek nearby into which he looked. There, 
Waldrop found shark teeth and a passion for paleontology. 
“It sort of took off from there,” he said.
Waldrop, a retired middle school science and community 
college teacher from Lake Wales, uncovered, documented and collected for about 50 years, amassing the world’s sec-ond-largest collection of vertebrae fossils in Florida.
In early May, he donated it to the vertebrate paleontol-
ogy division at the Florida Museum of Natural History. There are between 40,000 to 50,000 identifiable specimens: the 
museum’s largest private donation. Waldrop’s donation also 
includes about 3,000 boxes worth of invertebrate fossils, ac-cording to UF News.
His 10th grade biology project stuck with him. Waldrop 
frequented creeks in the area, eventually traveling through phosphate mines and shell pits. 
Waldrop collected “phosphate bits” for about 10 years 
since his wife’s parents lived near Fort Meade. It gave him material for his UF master’s thesis in 1971 – fossils of horses in Florida – and other projects.
“I’ve collected all over the state,” Waldrop said. “There 
aren’t many places I haven’t collected.”
Richard Hulbert, collections manager in the Division of 
Vertebrae Paleontology at the Florida Museum of Natural History, said Waldrop’s donation increases the museum’s collection by 10 percent; it already had about 450,000 fos-sils.
“I’m sure there will be surprises as we go through details,” 
Hulbert said.
The donation contains critical and unusual specimens 
that complement the museum’s collection. It has a few spec-imens from the Peace River in southwest Florida, Hulbert said. Waldrop gathered there in the 1970s – before hobby -
ists collected many of the fossils. 
Inside the boxes lie sharks, fish, horses, rhinos and el-
ephants. Waldrop covered the entire time frame known for Florida fossils, Hulbert said. Specimens range from the Eo -
cene epoch (40 million years ago) to the end of the Ice Age (11,000 years ago). 
“He didn’t collect a few flashy specimens,” Hulbert said. 
“He’d collect the entire fauna. He has collected everything from the big stuff to the small stuff.”
Fossils are exhibited at the museum, but it’s primarily 
used for research. They give Hulbert and researchers a bet-ter understanding of specimens’ diets and locations.
According to Hulbert, researchers at the museum take 
samples of the specimens and put them in a mass spectrom-
eter, which samples different isotopes of carbon and oxygen. 
It allows the museum to demonstrate how climate changed in Florida over millions of years and how animals responded.
Waldrop realized the significance of his collection early 
on. Hulbert said sometimes fossils get passed on to heirs who don’t know what to do with them; they’ll break or sell them, not realizing their importance.
It was a matter of when and how Waldrop would donate 
his life’s work. What makes Waldrop’s collection so valuable are his systematic notes. Identifying the animal wasn’t too 
important at that moment; he could always do it later. Wal-
drop focused on detailing the location of the fossils, record-ing the rock layers and condition of the find.
“By donating to the museum, he has preserved it for scien-
tists to study for decades,” Hulbert said, “if not centuries.”Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Upper left: A close-up view of the fossilized teeth of an adult teleoceras, a prehistoric rhinoceros. 
Lower left: A detailed look at the highlights of John Waldrop’s donation to the Museum of Natural History.
Right: Dr. Richard Hulbert poses with part of the largest privately donated collection to the musem.digging around
museum 
“By donating to the museum, he has preserved it for 
scientists to study for decades, if not centuries.”
RICHARD HULBERT
collections manager in the Division of Vertebrae 
Paleontology at the Florida Museum of Natural History
thursday, june 2, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 9
Local produce healthier for community...and your wallet
By AMY STUART
avenue contributing writer
Stefanie Hamblen was tired of walking into 
markets and watching customers pick up pro-
duce, look at it and put it back down; they didn’t know what to do with it. 
Determined to change that habit, Hamblen 
started Hogtown HomeGrown, a cooking news-letter dedicated to promoting locally grown food.
With gas prices surging in the past months, 
local growers believe consumers can benefit by choosing to buy produce locally.
Grocery stores have to absorb increased food costs, Hamblen said. But local farmers have less 
fuel charges to pass onto consumers.
For every cucumber and batch of strawber -
ries customers buy, they pay for the item, gas 
charge, freight charge and the middleman who runs transportation. 
When consumers buy locally, they pay the 
farmer directly and keep money in the commu -
nity. For every dollar spent locally, 68 cents stays in the community; but only 34 cents remains for 
long-distance shipments, according to Hamblen.
Carlo Besozzi, manager of Book Lover’s Café, 
has been promoting locally grown food for about 
10 years. He tries to make sure the café buys as much as possible from local farmers. 
With the right mindset, anyone can save mon-
ey by purchasing locally instead of from chain 
stores, Besozzi said. A mis-conception is people believe local food is more expensive when higher prices are usu -
ally tagged on organic food.
Danielle Ward, general 
manager of Ward’s Super -
market, has seen food prices 
rise due to increase in fuel costs.
There was no shipping charge for fuel five or 
six years ago. But as gas prices have risen, ship-ping costs have come into play, Ward said. 
If food needs to be shipped, the farmers might 
raise a crate of produce by a dollar, for example, and supermarkets have to charge that to the cus-tomer, Ward said.
With the economy coming out of recession 
and environmental sustainability growing in pop-ularity, more people and restaurants are starting to think local. 
“The number of farmers’ markets in the past 
five years has almost quadrupled,” Hamblen said. “As gas prices go up and food security be -
comes more questionable, the consumers are going to demand more local produce.”
the tech effect
New MiniKey iPhone case spells solution for autocorrect
By CARTER LYLES
avenue columnist
iPhones annoy the crap out of me. 
Scratch that. The auto-correct 
program that Apple installs in          
iPhones – the one that causes a frus-
trating multitude of spelling errors and 
nonsensical sentences – annoys the crap out of me.
The solution for the auto-correct 
demon comes from an unlikely source, 
however, in the form of a new iPhone case.
The NUU MiniKey was designed to 
fix the problem by way of the seeming-ly simple idea of attaching a slide-out QWERTY keyboard to the case.The product is compatible with the  
iPhone 4, and its battery is estimated to last more than a month between charges. 
The design of the NUU MiniKey also 
allows unobstructed access to all func-tions and connectors on the iPhone, meaning that removing the case to recharge the device or take a picture isn’t be unnecessary.
“The NUU MiniKey allows iPhone 4 
users to have greater typing function-ality through its custom-built keyboard. Place your phone in the case, slide the keyboard out and type away,” reads the NUU Company’s advertisement for the Minikey. 
For those who are sick of having to deal with the autocorrect program, 
which seemingly has a mind of its own, 
investing in the case might save you the cost of buying a new iPhone when you finally hurl yours at a wall.
The NUU MiniKey QWERTY Blu -
etooth Keyboard is currently listed at a retail price of $79.99, but is only avail-able online in the United States.
10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, june 2, 2011
Local record label launches apocalyptic comic book series
By KATHLEEN BOYLE
avenue writer
What if the world was even 
messier than you thought?  A 
place where sailor-mouthed 
jackalopes roamed the desert, pants-free cowboy assailants are armed with pick-up trucks and machine guns, junked school 
buses are fair game artillery and 
the heads of the world’s super -
heroes are wanted dead by ev -
eryone?  
Such an inferno is the back -
drop for “Kill the Wonderhawks,” a comic series written by David Losso, drawn by Aaron Pittman and colored by Alejandro Ro -
sado.  
A free download of the first ep-
isode of “Kill the Wonderhawks,” entitled “The Pilot Is Dead,” was 
distributed through local record 
label Paper + Plastick Records last week.
“The Pilot Is Dead” is nine 
pages of bombastically illustrat-
ed superhero hilarity. Set some -
where in a desolate American 
wasteland, a team of five gnarly adventurers called the “Won-
derhawks” blaze along a barren 
highway in an ultramodern trans-porter.  
Rowdy, naked wrangler hea-
thens ride close on their heels, 
spewing obscenities in their at-
tempts to corral and nuke the he -roes for reasons that scream turf 
war. Through a traditional comic 
book panel’s narrative, a series of cacophonic events filled with trash-talking rampage unfold.
Pittman’s illustrations seize 
a sense of urgency and chaos that compel readers to cling to each plot maneuver, while Los-so’s sense of humor subdues 
any melodrama leading to the 
action’s climax. What amounts from this synergy of art and hu -
mor is a nimble affair with come -
dic goodness so sweet, one will feel a cheat snatching this down-load for free.
Residing in 
Chicago, writer 
David Losso 
is no newbie to the world of comics. 
With the pub-
lications “The Great Sandwich 
Detective” and “How Stuff Hap-pens” under his belt, Losso has been creating quirky comic strips 
for years, as well as illustrating 
artwork for bands such as Man Man and publications like Time Out Chicago.  
Posted on his blog, called 
“Drawing Staches,” Losso an-nounced the launching of “Kill the Wonderhawks” and explained his collaboration with Pittman 
and Rosado as, “[taking] all your 
favorite 70s and 80s teen team cartoons and [doing] horrible 
things to them in the name of 
entertainment.” 
The decision to distribute this 
comic via a record label is reflec-
tive of Paper + Plastick’s mission 
of “bring[ing] the visual aspect back to music by releasing not only quality music, but pairing it with collectible records (etched 
b-sides, various shapes and col-
ors, etc.) and stunning artwork.” 
Founded by Less Than Jake 
drummer Vinnie Fiorello in 2009, 
Paper + Plastick introduced the 
availability of free comics to its online webstore on May 7 in celebration of Free Comic Book Day.  
In addition to “Kill the Won-
derhawks,” readers can also find the comic series “50 States,” a collaboration between Fiorello 
and comic writer/editor Matt 
Anderson, and “Exit Interview,” written by Matt Anderson with artwork by Brian Mead, available for download.  
With a personal interest in 
comics that parallels his interest in records, it seems only natural for Fiorello’s label dedicated to 
art and music to distribute these 
types of publications.  
“Comics are something that 
I grew up with. They were the original things that I collected,” 
he states. “Later it turned to col-
lecting records.”
Art by Aaron Pittman and Alejandro Rosado, courtesy of paperandplastick.com.
The cover of the first issue of “Kill the Wonderhawks,” a new comic book series 
launched by Paper + Plastick records.  
American films steal 
show at French festival
By ANDY MAROON
avenue columnist
The 64th annual international Fes-
tival De Cannes wrapped up May 22 in 
France.
The coveted Palme d’Or, or Best In 
Show, went to Terrence Malick’s “The 
Tree of Life,” which stars Brad Pitt, Sean 
Penn and Jessica Chastain. “The Tree Of Life” is the first American movie to win the Palme d’Or since Michael Moore’s “Fahrenheit 9/11” in 2004. 
Stylistically, the trailer makes the 
film out to be a cross between Kubrik’s “2001: A Space Odyssey” and Aronof-sky’s “The Fountain” with a lot of large-
scale imagery. SlashFilm quotes the 
film to be at an “unusual intersection of experimentation, traditional drama, and modern filmmaking technology.”
Unfortunately, due to a slew of pro -
duction delays and distributor disagree -
ments, the film only saw a limited release on May 27.  If you want to see this movie soon, you need to make your way to New 
York City or Los Angeles, as it is currently 
only playing there. 
“The Tree of Life” will hit Florida on 
June 17 in Orlando and Miami Beach, and will see a larger release on June 24.
In other news from Cannes, Danish 
director Lars Von Trier made headlines with comments he made during the screening of his new end-of-the-world-epic  “Melancholia,” starring an unlikely 
Kirsten Dunst.  
When asked about the staggering 
amount of Germanic romanticism in the 
film as well as his own German heritage, Von Trier joked that he was a Nazi and “understood Hitler.”  In typical Von Trier fashion, he quickly issued an insincere apology that led to him being banned for the remainder of the festival.  
On the brighter side of “Melancholia,” 
Kirsten Dunst walked away with the Best Actress award. This is the third time the Best Actress award at Cannes has gone to someone in a Von Trier film. “Melan-cholia” won’t see a U.S. release until Nov. 4th.
I give praise to both Malick and Von 
Trier for being artistically risky with their Cannes entries. Von Trier shows he’s not one to shy away from indigestible meta-
phors and dark imagery similar to “Anti-
christ” back in 2009. Based on critical response, “Melancholia” seems to follow the same path with Kirsten Dunst deal-ing with the impending end of the world. 
Malick has been praised as making 
one of the most visually appealing films in the last decade. Toss in a stellar per -
formance by Brad Pitt and you have the 
a making of a classic. “The Tree of Life” 
may be my most anticipated movie of the year along with “Hesher.” I’ll just have to wait until June 17th to see what all of the hype is about.the movie column 
By AMANDA HILL
avenue contributing writer
How many things have you done this summer 
that have helped your wallet, your wardrobe, the 
environment and the community all at once? If 
your answer is zero, then you are not taking ad -
vantage of the array of charity thrift shops that Gainesville has to offer. 
Here’s The Avenue’s rundown on some of the 
best second-hand stores in town.
Goodwill
Don’t be overwhelmed by the abundance 
of muumuus, cat sweaters and mom jeans. If 
you have the patience, you will discover nestled among the seemingly endless racks of clothing are rare vintage pieces and barely worn designer jeans priced lower than the sales tax would cost you at a boutique. Goodwill’s two Gainesville lo -
cations, 3520 SW 34th St. and 2624 NW 13th St., are also great places to find super cheap furniture and home goods. Proceeds from the 
store help the organization provide job training 
and placement for people who face employment challenges.
Haven Hospice Attic
Haven Hospice is a not-for-profit organization 
that cares for patients and families facing life-
limiting illnesses. Its thrift store, Haven Hospice Attic, 300 NW Eighth Ave., has a wide variety of 
merchandise, including furniture, jewelry, house -
wares and home décor. Prices run a little higher 
than some of the other stores, but the collection of antique and vintage items makes it worth the trip. Students receive 25 percent off on Wednes -
days and most clothing is 50 percent off on Fridays.
Family Treasures Thrift Shop
Formerly The Tot Spot, Family Treasures 
Thrift Shop, 710 N. Main St., reopened in March 
with a larger selection of inventory. For those who are turned off by the unsightly clutter that comes standard at many thrift stores, this place is for you. Items are well organized and neatly displayed. The store is run by Children’s Home 
Society, a not-for-profit organization that pro -
vides social services to children who are at risk 
of abuse, neglect or abandonment. Parents who bring a child receive a discount on Wednesdays and students with a college ID get a discount on Thursdays.
Salvation Army Thrift Store
You never know what you are going to find at 
The Salvation Army Family Store, located at 55 
NW 23rd Ave. In fact, you may not know what some of the things are even after you find them. Nonetheless, there are gems hiding in the rough. Money generated by the store goes toward pro -
viding food, clothing, shelter and other services to people in need.
Thrift tips 
Think outside the box: consider simple solu -
tions such as painting furniture or having gar -
ments tailored.
Chat up the staff: find out about upcoming 
sales, new arrivals and when merchandise is put 
out.
Shop out of season: stock up on winter coats 
while everyone else is picking over the shorts and sundresses.A guide to Gainesville’s thrift storesBut this 33rd birthday of one of 
rock ‘n’ roll’s most essential records 
gives me an excuse to talk about my favorite artist ever. And since it’s on a Thursday, I have even more reason to 
turn this into my weekly column.
“Darkness On The Edge Of Town,” 
Springsteen’s fourth studio album, is 
perhaps most noteworthy for being the follow-up to arguably the greatest album of all time, “Born To Run.”
“Born To Run” catapulted Spring-
steen from a cult following in large Northeast markets to a national pres-
ence, and eventually into a global force.
Follow -
ing up “Born 
To Run” was a task that 
should have 
made Spring-steen flinch, but he de -
livered what some consid-er to be one of 
his best LPs.
From the opening drum blasts 
of the powerful “Badlands” to the forever-catchy verses and guitar solo in “Candy’s Room” to the fan-favorite chorus in “The Promised Land,” the record has something for everyone in its 10 tracks.
For me, a diehard Springsteen fan 
since birth thanks to my dad, “Dark -
ness” will always have its own niche. It’s not quite a top five record from The Boss, but from a critical standpoint it certainly deserves to be mentioned right up there with “Born To Run.” 
Despite not having a successful 
single, “Darkness” left a great legacy. 
It was ranked the 151st greatest al-bum of all time by Rolling Stone maga-
zine and in 2010 a documentary of the making of the album was unveiled at the Toronto Film Festival.
In reviewing the premier of the doc-
umentary, Stephen Whitty of the New -
ark Star-Ledger quoted Springsteen as saying, “More than rich, more than famous, more than happy – I wanted to be great.”
Great he was, and great he still is. 
If you’re not familiar with The Boss’ discography, there’s no artist on the planet I would recommend more 
wholeheartedly.
I couldn’t be happier that this day fell 
on a Thursday.
Today, June 2, is the 33rd anni-
versary of one of my favorite records of all time, Bruce Springsteen’s “Dark -
ness On The Edge Of Town.”
Now, the 33rd anniversary of some -
thing isn’t normally celebrated – as a society, we tend to lean toward mile -
stones and we make a big deal out of the 30th or 40th or 50th anniversary of whatever important event we want to celebrate.thursday, june 2, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
New MTV show latest to cash in on werewolf trend
By KELLY RICHARD
avenue writer
Vampires and witches and werewolves, oh 
my!
A new MTV show is set to join the ever-grow -
ing trend of featuring mythological creatures in 
entertainment.
“Teen Wolf” will debut June 5 at 11 p.m. fol -
lowing the 2011 MTV Movie Awards.
From the “Twilight” saga to “True Blood,” many of today’s popular movies and shows 
feature werewolves.
“Teen Wolf” is no exception.The show is based on the 1985 Michael J. 
Fox flick, where he plays the iconic Scott How -
ard. However, it strays greatly from the origi-
nal.
The new main character, Scott McCall, opts 
to go shirtless instead of wearing a letterman. 
Also, the show is more angst-filled – something 
we should have expected coming from MTV.Executive producer Jeff Davis told TVGuide.
com that MTV wanted to go darker and sexier than the 
original, something appar -
ent in the commercials that have been playing repeated -
ly for the last month or so.
MTV.com said the show 
is “the story of Scott as he 
tries to walk the line between what he wants 
and what he can’t help from wanting.”The protagonist will have to learn his limi -
tations and how to control himself, especially around love interest Allison.
Audiences will have the chance to decide 
Sunday whether “Teen Wolf” will be a monster 
hit or fizzle out like the short-lived show “The 
Gates,” which also featured a menagerie of mythical creatures.
If the show fails to thrive, it might be the 
viewers’ message to TV producers: vampires, witches and werewolves … enough!ff the RecordThirty-three years later, Springsteen’s “Darkness” is still as relevant as ever
Thomas Nassiff
Avenue Editor
Twitter: @ThomasNassiff
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
8-15-11-25-1
The Landings
All-Inclusive 3/3’s
ONLY $459
$49 Signing Fees
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-25-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
8-15-25-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
8-15-25-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
8-15-11-25-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
8-15-11-25-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-1
The Polos
Roommate Matching Available
2/2 only $538/month per person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    8-15-25-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com8-15-11-25-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    8-15-11-25-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
Leasing 4 Summer & Fall
Great Specials & New Amenities!
All Inclusive & steps from SFC
Starting @ $359  352.379.9300
8-15-11-25-1
1 BR 1 BA furn apt on horse farm in Williston. 
Includes util, garb, water, pest, cable, park-
ing, cent H/A, W/D, tile. NS. Refs checked. 
$800/mo. Avail 1st/2nd week in May. Call 
Cindy 352-443-2016.    6-9-11-10-1
GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR REDUCED 
RENT. Fully furnished or unfunished up-
graded 2 Bdrm apt w/ W/D Need mature, 
handy adult to occasionally show apts (other 
3 currently occupied) and do minor chores. 
Requires less than 4 hours/mo. Normally 
rents for $735/mo. Negotiable Sorry no pets. 
Call 727-423-9463.    6-9-11-9-1
4br/4bath-$1400/month-All INCLUSIVE
Cable/Internet/Utilities($175 cap)
Fully furnished-32" HDTV in Common room
Countryside Apartments- Available 8/1/11
954.682.8352 or maggator@ufl.edu 
6-2-6-1
Furnished,4bedroom,4bath,W/D,1st 
floor,$350/room, 3800 SW 20th Univ Terrace West, includes utilities Steve 352-586-6468; room-mate matching    7-5-11-10-1
$375-Well-maintained 4/4 SW Gville condo 
avail. starting summer or fall. Less than 10 mins. from UF/Shands/Butler Plaza! RMM match, indiv. leases, private bath, walk-in closets, W/D, on 2 bus routes. Internet/cable included. Call 352.514.3398.   8-26-11-25-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse.
Walk to UF. Avail. 8/15
$850/mo. call 877-833-2865    6-14-11-5-1
1/1-$650/month(39th St and University Ave). 
Spacious, carpet with tile flooring. Fully renovated with new appliances. Furnished, Washer/Dryer included. Min. to UF and Oaks Mall.Contact Maria @ 786-389-9718  
7-5-11-8-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. 2br $400 372-6881, 213-3901        8-15-11-25-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
8-15-11-25-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
8-15-11-25-21/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    8-15-10-25-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $579
3br  for $729.
Limited Availability. 352-376-4002
8-15-11-25-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   8-15-10-25-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
8-15-11-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
8-15-11-25-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
8-15-11-25-2 
2 BR starts at $1029
3 BR starts at $1219Amazing townhome, includes:Cable w/ HBO and ShowtimeCobblestone Apts. Call Now!352.377.2801   8-15-25-2
   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
8-15-11-25-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!8-15-25-2
One Month FREE!
Move In by June 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
8-15-11-25-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
8-15-11-25-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
8-15-25-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
8-15-11-25-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
8-15-11-25-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
8-15-11-25-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
8-15-25-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
8-15-11-25-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
8-15-11-25-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   8-15-11-25-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495 ● 3BRs $630
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          8-15-11-25-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com8-15-11-25-2BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
8-15-11-25-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    8-15-11-25-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
8-15-11-25-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
8-15-11-25-2
Pine Rush Villas
Sign a lease by 4/30 and enter to
win a FREE YEAR OF RENT!!
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
352-375-1519
8-15-11-25-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
8-15-11-25-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   8-15-11-25-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    8-15-11-25-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         8-15-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341     
7-14-11-73-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$559 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
8-15-11-25-2
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    8-15-25-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   6-9-11-43-2SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     6-2-11-31-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, 
close to campus, all appliances, W/D,
hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1295 - 333-9874 or 317-73466-9-11-36-2****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/air
Avail. Aug 1, $1300 - 333-9874 or 317-7346
6-9-11-36-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/1.5BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/1.5BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $590-625. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
6-2-34-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   8-15-11-25-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
8-15-10-25-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
6-30-11-39-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    8-15-11-25-2
STILL SEARCHING?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
8-15-25-25
★WALK2UF.COM★
Location, Location, Affordable
352-375-8256
8-15-25-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1195 333-9874,  317-7346    6-9-11-31-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   8-15-11-25-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    8-15-11-25-2
WWW.BELLAPROPERTIES.NET
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
8-15-11-25-2.WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
7-28-11-22-2
CONDOS.JACKSONSQUARE.US
Luxury condos 3 blocks North of UF
352-870-9453
8-15-25-2
Walk or Bike to Campus!
1,2,3,4 & 5 BR houses & condos available. 
Campus Realty 352-692-3800rentals.campusrealtygroup.com    7-28-11-34-2
Clean small efficiency Quiet.Wash/dry on 
prem.Wat/Sew incl NS No Pets.1/2m south 
UF/Shands,2 bus routes.$399/m.Same fur-
nished $410/m 352-262-2871 Owner/agent    
8-2-11-30-2
Post Apartments – 352 376 0080.  352 284 
3873. postj@bellsouth.net
Clean, spacious, private apts. for calm, quiet, 
stable, mature persons.
●Duckpond duplex - 920 NE 6th Ave. $700 
Carport, large yard, big trees, burglar bars, 
WDH, CHA, carpet. 
●1808 - 1830 NW 10th St.- 1 and 2 bed-
rooms. $500-$650. Private patio with lock 
gate, large yard, big trees, carpet.
●1700 SW 16th Ct.- 1 and 2 br Condos $550 - $650 1 block from Shands   8-15-11-25-2
Pinnacle Point large 2 bedroom townhouse 
just minutes from UF & Butler Plaza. All of our 
units are newly refurbished with all new ap-
pliances, tile, carpet, paint, light fixtures and 
more! Call today for specials 352-373-7578    
8-15-11-25-2
LUXURY 3/2 CREEK'S EDGE CONDO
Quiet upstairs condo. 1300 sf. Like New, lg. rooms, hardwood floors, upgraded 
kitchen and appl. W/D. Mins to campus on 
direct bus rt. $975 727-463-0560    6-30-11-
14-2
LUXURY DOWNTOWN CONDO!
Stylish City living in Regent’s Park
Beautiful, huge and quiet!
Two story, 3BR/2.5 bath, w/garage
Avail in Aug @ $1600/mo.
Call Union Properties at 373-7578.
8-15-11-25-2
507 NW 39th Rd 1/1 $725-hardwood floors, 
porch, w/d, pets-Y!, no pet fees, walk in closets, fence, close to everything Newberry & 39th rd, Avil now. MUST SEE beautiful unit. 305-586-8255 smwhite14@yahoo.com  
6-9-11-9-2
3BR/1BA house available August in SW 
Gainesville. Central heat/AC, hardwood/tile floors, washer/dryer, carport, Florida room, private fenced backyard with patio, pet-friendly. $900/month. ph. 352-318-1053  
6-16-11-12-2
3&4 bedroom homes avail in NW Gainesville. 
Mins to UF and Santa Fe. Ideal for students/families. Pets Welcome! Avail Aug 5.
3331 NW 30th PL 3bed/2bath $975 
3321 NW 30th PL 4 bed/2 bath $1175 
Call Ricky for more info 352-284-5119    6-7-
11-8-2
AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
2 large rooms w/private baths. 10 min to UF. Large home, quiet neighborhood. $550/mo + utils per room. Cable, W/D, hardwood floors. 5 mins to busline. Call 352-284-0979    6-30-11-13-2
1 MONTH FREE ★ NO APPLICATION FEE
★ Apts Starting at $350 ★ Pets OK! ★
Call Today. 
Meadowcrest Apts. 352-378-3988
meadowcrest@wbsproperties.com
6-14-11-10-2
1/1 w/ private gated court yard in small quiet 
complex. Prefect for the serious student or quiet proffesional small pets ok. $450 mnth call: 352 377-2150    6-16-11-10-21/1 Campus Edge
3rd floor, very calm. Washer, dryer, dish-washer, stove, fridge, microwave, overlook -
ing the pool, gym. $699/m, Avail July 352-262-2871 Owner Agent    7-14-11-16-2
●Charming 2BR 1 BA Cottage Blocks to UF
2703 NW 2nd Ave. Central h/a, laundry 
with w/d, large private screened porch. No 
Pets, Avail August. Grandaddy oaks. $875/
mo. 1st last $500 security. 352-332-5836  
6-16-11-10-2
POOL HOUSE
4BR/3BA 2816 W Univ Ave 1 mi to UF. 
Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. Avail now.
$1500/mo summer, $1600/mo fall NEG.327-2931, 376-6183              6-16-11-10-2
The Landings
2/2.5 Townhome
ONLY $940
Includes Internet & Cable
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
8-15-21-2
Very nice Rockwood Villas Townhouse
3/3 for only $900.00/month-Great deal!
Large bedrooms, updated appliances, 
Washer/dryer, 2 pools, lots of parking
Call Jared at (941) 737-6997    6-30-11-10-2
Near UF. Beautiful 4BR/2BA home. Florida 
room w/ inground jacuzzi. W/D. All tile floor. 
2-car attached garage, storage shed. Walk 
to grocery & shops. Avail Aug 9. $1399/mo  
904-534-6982, kencarmgravs@comcast.net    
6-16-11-8-2
●●●●  HOUSE  ●●●●
105 NW 30th St, 2200 sq ft, 3BR/2BA+ bo-
nus rm w/ bath, carport, lg yard, pet-friendly, 
12 blks to stadium, bus rte 5, 34, 43. $1700/
mo  352-281-7932    6-2-11-4-2
2BR HOUSE. Super nice, tile floors, A/C, 
W/D hook-up, fenced yard, on bus route, close to UF & SFC. $650/mo, flex lease. 914 NW 40th Ave. Call for info         352-318-8822    6-7-11-5-2
Great 3/2 House w/crpt & w/d (1100sqft)
Rent $1050/month with leasePets allowed  :)  Available June 1stContact Kathryn: kesamai@gmail.com4102 NW 21st Terrace Gville, FL 32608    7-14-14-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7129 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-11146-30-11-10-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/ 
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2175 352-665-8166 lv mssg 8-15-11-21-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice,
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwash -
er, ice, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. $1590/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg          8-15-11-21-2
LAKEWOOD VILLAS
Large 1, 2 & 3 bdrm floor plans starting
at $635. Washer/Dryer, Fitness Center,
Tennis Court, Swimming Pool, Sauna etc.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat. 10-5, Sun 12-4
700 SW 62nd Blvd 877-781-8314
www.lakewoodvillas.com
text (Lakewood)@65586
8-15-11-20-2
SPYGLASS
Individual Leases. Furniture Pkgs. incl.
Washer/Dryer, FREE Hi-Speed internet.
Rates start at $399. Every unit an end unit.
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-5, Sun 12-4
701 SW 26nd Blvd 888-267-5078
www.spyglassapts.com
text (spyglass) 65586
8-15-11-20-2THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 13
UPPER WESTSIDE /
NANTUCKET
1 & 2 bdrm  Luxury Apts. Granite counters.
Parking avail. Walk to campus & stadium.
For info. call 352-872-4644
upperwestside@cmcapt.com
text: upperwestside@65374
8-15-11-20-2
2/2 ROCKWOOD VILLAS, $750, NEAR 
MALL & UF. LOTS OF PARKING, CORNER 
UNIT, HAS OWN W+D D.AGUIRRE.
AZOCAR@GMAIL.COM OR 347.878.9072   
AVAILABLE JULY 1.    7-5-11-10-2
2/1 duplex in Tower Oaks Glen
Cent A/C, laundry room w/ W/D, on bus 
route. No pets. $525/mo , 1st month + last month. 6900 SW 21st Lane (352) 514-9698   6-7-11-4-2
DOWNTOWN STUDIO/GARAGE APT
416 SE 2nd St. Off-street parking, privacy. 
Near main bus station. H2O/sewage provid -
ed, window A/C, space heat. $420/mo. 1st, last, sec.  Call 373-6551    7-5-10-2
2BR HOUSE
Private yard. Small dog OK. $650/mo 6200 
SW 13th St. 352-372-6881 or 352-213-3901   6-7-11-4-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE PERFECT FOR 
PROFESSIONALS/GRAD. 2BR/2BA pris-
tine Bivens Arm condo. Large den/3rd BR, 
hdwd flrs, W/D, pool, canoe. Walk/bike to 
Shands/UF, bus stop. $1190/mo. 407-832-
1458    6-28-11-8-2
Quiet spacious 2 bed 1 bath house on large 
fenced corner lot,screen porch, washer/dryer 
hookup,pet fee,lease $750 available june 1
1123 NW 31st ave call 352 475 1586    6-9-
4-2
4bed/4 bath condo available on
7/31. $275 per person.1.5 milesfrom UF; on bus line. All appli-ances &some furniture included.Call J. Erney at 352-328-1266.   7-7-11-10-2
LARGE 1 Bedrooom Condo in
HAILE PLANTATION
on GOLFCOURSE next to
POOL & CLUBHOUSE.
Beautiful Tranquil location just minutes from 
U.F. 2nd Floor Unit $750 per month.
MCHENRYSCOTT@HOTMAIL.COM
407-493-4748
6-16-11-5-2
NOW LEASING FOR FALL!!!
1 Bedrooms Apts. starting at $425.00
2 Bedroom Apts starting at $495.
www.associatesrealty.com  352-372-7755
6-14-11-4-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38668-15-25-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house. Male 
or female. No pets/smoking. Free off-street parking $450/mo. Includes all utilities, wifi, security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 727-726-2915    6-16-11-38-4STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   6-30-11-27-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412    6-2-10-4
350/mo 2 blocks from campus
Close to downtown
814-440-3325 or jfidorra@hotmail.com   6-30-11-14-4
MATURE PROFESSIONAL Share 3BR/3BA 
pool home near UF. Safe area across from 
Plaza Royale. Bus rte. No alcohol or drugs. 
$325 + 1/3 util. 2 rms available 5/13. No pets. 371-3837                                 6-7-11-9-4
ROOMMATES WANTED! 2 student girl 
roommates looking for 1-2 roommates to 
share 4 bed/2 bath home. W/D,kitchen/din-
ing/living/family rooms, side patio, fenced in 
yard $500/month everything included. Great 
location within 5 miles of campus!
Call Megan, (386)441-8208.    6-7-7-4
$350 moves you in! No deposit or last months 
rent. Mature male student to share furnished 
4/2. FR, LR, W/D, maid service, yrd man, 5 
min from UF, new kitchen, big yard. No pets, 
non-smoker. (813) 362-7729 or 362-7881    
6-7-11-5-4
Male college student wanted for gated 
4BR/4BA Countryside condo, poolside, own 
BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed internet, ear-
ly stop on UF bus rte. Utils incl. $400/mo. No 
deposit  863-634-1893     6-30-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Countryside 
condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl.Direct bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless.Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-48146-30-11-10-4
Grad student looking for female students 
in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. $425/month. Includes cable/internet, utilities, W/D. On 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.    6-16-11-6-4
Looking for 4 UF students to rent furnished 
4/4 student condo at Countryside at the University. W/D, pool, no pets, on bus rt, 1.5 mi from UF. 1st floor. Ready Aug 1st. $400/mo/rm. Call 386-295-7929 or 386-672-6969   7-14-11-11-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28798-15-25-5
Perfect 2/2 Townhouse 3.5 miles UF 
$135,500. Master bdrm upstairs. New A/C, kitchen appliances, siding, and much more. Pictures, ect at Realtor.com MLS #319897. 352-376-9756    6-16-11-9-5AUCTION!!! Sat. June 4th, Montgomery, 
AL. 2 Houses & 8 Lots On the Alabama 
River. Sold On Site! 10% Buyer's Premium. 
(800)222-5003; www.AuctionsUnited.com, 
ABLQ4D8246, AAL1218    6-2-1-5
LAND SALE STEINHATCHEE, FL 10 
Acres $39,900 $900 Down, $326/Mo. Great 
Hunting/Fishing. Near Gulf and River. Call (352)542-7835 cell: (352)356-1099    6-2-1-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      8-15-11-25-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        8-15-11-25-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        8-15-11-25-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   8-15-25-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      8-15-25-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    
8-15-25-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      8-15-25-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  8-15-25-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  8-15-25-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     8-15-11-25-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
8-15-11-25-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-15-11-95-7
A+ Mobile PC Repair
Our technicians provide fast and thorough
computer repairs, at an affordable price.
We come to you. (352) 212-1220 
APlusMobile@rocketmail.com
9-2-11-30-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 8-15-10-25-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03708-15-10-25-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       8-15-25-10
BE YOUR OWN BOSS-START TODAY! 
OWN A RED HOT! DOLLAR, DOLLAR 
PLUS, MAILBOX OR DISCOUNT PARTY 
STORE FROM $51,900 WORLDWIDE! 
100% TURNKEY (800)518-3064 WWW.
DRSS20.COM    6-2-1-10
SAWMILLS -Band/Chainsaw -SPRING 
SALE - Cut lumber any dimension, anytime. 
MAKE MONEY and SAVE MONEY In stock ready to ship. Starting at $995.00. www.NorwoodSawmills.com/300N (800)578-1363 
Ext.300N    6-2-1-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    8-15-25-11★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
8-15-11-25-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
8-15-11-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  8-15-
11-25-11
STAND OR SIT ● POWERFUL MOBILITY
15-20 mile range, 15-20 mph. Easy to take 
apart. 300 lb capacity, 500 watt - battery op-
erated  Excellent for Campus & Fun $975 & 
up. Call today J&S Assoicates 352-339-5158    
6-30-11-9-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   8-15-11-20-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
8-15-11-20-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
8-15-25-1214, ALLIGATOR  THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011
THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 17
After struggling on the greens in the first round 
of the NCAA Championships in Stillwater, Okla., 
the Gators’ woes on the difficult 
7,416-yard Karsten Creek course continued on Wednesday. 
The fifth-seeded Gators men’s 
golf team sat in 14th place after Tuesday’s round that saw every Florida player shoot over-par, led 
by seniors Andres Echavarria and 
Bank Vongvanij at 2-over 74. UF combined to shoot a 12-over 300 and trailed first round leader Geor -gia Tech by 17 strokes. 
“I think (our putting) is curable,” coach Buddy Al-
exander said after round one. “Our strategies weren’t too bad, so I ex -
pect us to do better tomorrow.”
Instead, Florida shot an 11-
over 299 to fall into a tie for 16th at 23-over-par. Only eight teams advance to the match play portion 
of the championship and UF trails 
Texas A&M and Ohio State by nine shots heading into Thursday’s deciding third round.Sophomore Phillip Choi paced the Gators with 
a 1-under 71 on Wednesday. Vongvanij, the South -
eastern Conference Player of the Year, shot a 1-over 73 and Echa -
varria carded a 4-over 76.
Perhaps still feeling the effects 
of a broken finger last month, sophomore Tyler McCumber strug-gled to a 7-over 79. 
Echavarria, Vongvanij and Choi 
were also named to the Division I PING All-Region Team on Tuesday.
McCumber
 Choi
 Alexander
NCAA G    LF CHAMPI    NSHIP
NCAA G    LF CHAMPI    NSHIP
NCAA G    LF CHAMPI    NSHIP
Rosa Taveras and Matt Watts / Alligator Staff
  But in the case of the Gators, maybe I’m wrong. 
  This emotionally hectic weekend, ﬁ  lled with 
doubt, anxiousness, worry, and ﬁ  nally joy and ju-
bilation, is exactly what they needed. 
  Looking up and down the lineup and stat sheet, 
there’s no doubt Florida is fully equipped for a trip 
to Omaha, Neb. It’s what you can’t see from the 
outset, however, that may mean the difference.
  UF struggled mentally at times this season. 
Losses to Georgia Southern, UCF (twice), Jackson-
ville and a 14-1 drubbing against Kentucky with an SEC title on the line, provided plenty of reasons to 
doubt Florida’s resolve.  
But UF rebounded to beat Kentucky and clinch 
a share of the regular-season championship in the 
ﬁ  nal game before the tournament. 
And then, after shaking hands with Johnathan 
Taylor, the Georgia outﬁ  elder paralyzed earlier this year, the Gators watched as Mike Zunino’s errant throw took out their Saturday starter. 
  Even though Florida couldn’t outlast the Bull-
dogs after losing Johnson, the Gators did get a 
masterful and long-awaited showing from Antho-
ny DeSclafani. The righty tossed a career-high 7.2 innings and allowed just two runs on seven hits.
 Adams said the outing from DeSclafani restored 
some much-needed conﬁ  dence. 
 “That’s the thing when you’re pitching in tour-
nament play, if you don’t have conﬁ  dence you’re not going to throw well,” Adams added.
  Toledo, Nick Maronde, Greg Larson, Steven 
Rodriguez and Austin Maddox combined to shut-
down Mississippi State on Wednesday. Then Alex 
Panteliodis threw 5.1 stellar innings to start the shutout against Vanderbilt in the championship game.   
  O’Sullivan, who said he was happy to see his 
other pitchers get some tournament reps, admitted 
recently that this season has been a grind. 
But that grind is really just beginning, and the 
Gators have now proven they are battle-hardened 
and ready for the test — something you couldn’t 
say about this team a couple of weeks ago.
 WATTS , from page 19Gators open with Jaspers at 4 p.m. on Friday
It’ll be fun.”
  2. Who will pitch the second game?
  Coach Kevin O’Sullivan has a bevy of options for Sat-
urday’s game, but it’s not entirely clear what direction 
he’ll choose until after Friday’s contest. Normal week-
end starter Brian Johnson is day-to-day after his scary accident Saturday, and his status is still unknown. If 
the Gators trump the Jaspers, Anthony DeSclafani, Alex Panteliodis or Tommy Toledo could get the start. All three juniors were impressive during the SEC Tourna-ment and Panteliodis has a history of frustrating Miami hitters. “I’m really pleased with the way Anthony (DeS-
clafani) threw and the way Alex (Panteliodis) threw,” 
O’Sullivan said. “Toledo got a start and threw the ball good. I think our depth is really starting to show up like we hoped.” Freshman hurler Karsten Whitson has been UF’s Sunday starter all season, but the overpow-
ering righty could be bumped up a day like he was in 
Hoover, Ala. 
  3. With UF’s power outage, can Bryson Smith and 
Daniel Pigott stay hot?
  The upperclassmen outﬁ  elders torched SEC pitching 
over the weekend, carrying a dormant Gators offense. Heavy-hitters Mike Zunino, Preston Tucker and Aus-tin Maddox struggled mightily in Hoover, but Florida 
seized the trophy thanks to two players who went to 
Alabama in major funks. Smith was marred in a 5-for-45 slump before busting out with a four-hit performance in the Gators’ win over the Crimson Tide. The senior 
center ﬁ  elder was named to the All-Tournament team 
after batting .409 with three RBIs and two stolen bases. Pigott was also in a rut — 5 for his previous 28 — and didn’t even play in Florida’s ﬁ  rst game against Missis-sippi State, yet the junior left ﬁ  elder was named MVP 
following a torrid weekend. Pigott hit .583 over the ﬁ  ve 
games, scoring six runs and swiping six bases. 
  4. Will the Gators continue their aggressive ap-
proach on the basepaths?
  Florida is not a team blessed with a ton of speed, 
but at the conference tournament, UF played a small-ball style not seen for most of the season. To avoid a stagnant offense, O’Sullivan called multiple hit-and-
runs and double steals to continuously move runners 
into scoring position. The Gators are just seventh in the league in stolen bases. But they swiped 11 in Hoover, stealing three bases for the ﬁ  rst time in a conference 
game all season. “It gets us going,” shortstop Nolan 
Fontana said. “It just carries momentum. We did that a lot this weekend and it really helped us out.”   5. Has Cody Dent shored up third base?  The sophomore inﬁ  elder started at third a bunch 
down the stretch last season, but in 2011, the hot corner has been a position of ﬂ  ux for O’Sullivan. Dent, fresh-man Zack Powers and junior Jeff Moyer have all had a hand in the revolving door at third base this year, but lately, Bucky’s kid has played his way into a consistent 
starting role. Dent hit a measly .111 (4 for 36) before the 
tournament, but at the SECs he went 4 for 13 with four walks. “It was awesome. We’ve been looking for that all year,” Adams said. “Third base has been a position 
we need help in. For him to step up the way that he 
did this weekend is a great feeling for the team.” Dent displayed renewed conﬁ  dence at the plate while also ﬂ  ashing the leather all weekend. “He’s in there for his defense, and I thought he was a huge part of our suc-
cess last week,” O’Sullivan said. “He had some quality 
at-bats. But he’s really good defensively.” 
BASEBALL , from page 19
 Thomas Plevik / Alligator
   Junior Alex Panteliodis tossed 5.1 shutout innings in  
the tourney title game and may start this weekend. 
“That’s the thing when you’re pitching in 
tournament play, if you don’t have conﬁ  -
dence you’re not going to throw well.”
Josh Adams
UF senior 18, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011
Bryan Holt and Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffGators have choreographed celebrations for walks, steals and hits
RBIs).
The offensive evolution has 
sparked a rejuvenated lineup and 
dugout, especially during the post-season.
Instead of waiting for a three-
run shot to celebrate, the Gators now have a fully choreographed 
routine for each of the “little 
things.”
Walk a UF batter, and she will 
salute. If a player gets hit, they respond with a fist pump similar to what one might see on “Jersey 
Shore.”
 Two-out hits, doubles and RBIs 
get you a baby Gator Chomp. 
Maybe most noticeable of all, 
Florida base-stealers toss imagi-
nary grenades toward their dugout 
after successfully swiping a bag.
“The Texas Rangers did a good 
job last year with their run of really making things fun,” Walton said. 
“If players making millions of 
dollars can do things to have fun, why can’t we?”
The lineup’s progressions dur -
ing the postseason have made life easier for the two-headed pitching 
beast of Stephanie Brombacher and Hannah Rogers — another major 
reason why Walton feels this team brings more to Oklahoma than last year’s squad.
Like every other year, the final 
eight is loaded with tough starting pitching. 
But none of the teams go two-
deep with as much dominance as the Gators.
In the six games of Florida’s Re-gional and Super Regional, the duo 
gave up just seven earned runs and 
struck out 36 batters.
“The two of them are going to 
have to do a great job of carrying us,” Walton said. 
“But we’ve [been to the WCWS] 
with one pitcher before, so I think when you have two very special individuals, it makes it a lot more 
exciting for me as a coach.”
Now opposing teams will have 
to prepare for UF’s contrasting pitchers.
The senior Brombacher will 
start, using her pinpoint control and breaking pitches in the first 
few innings, before handing the ball over to the flame-throwing 
Rogers. 
The power throwing freshman 
has developed into a dominant re-liever, sporting a drop-ball that has 
become one of the nastiest pitches 
in college softball over the past 
month.
“They make timely pitches 
when they have to and they hit their spots,” catcher Tiffany DeFe-lice said. “I just think that they’re 
so strong mentally that it’s really 
hard to get to them.”
Florida’s WCWS run — the final 
for its five seniors — begins tonight 
at 9:30 p.m. against Missouri. 
Etc. The NCAA announced the 
All-American teams Wednesday, and the Gators the nation with six selections. Bush, Schutte and Bruder received first-team honors. Rogers was named to the second team, while Moultrie and Aja Pac-ulba were third-team selections. SOFTBALL , from page 19
SCOUTING THE COMPETITION
Alabama (51-9) The Crimson Tide are led by senior pitcher Kelsi Dunne (27-4, 1.15 ERA). Alabama will also bring power 
as it is fourth in the nation in home runs per game and is the only team not named Florida left that features ﬁ  ve double-
digit home-run hitters in its lineup.
Arizona State (55-6) College softball’s No. 1 seed rides freshman phenom Dallas Escobedo (30-3, 1.32 ERA) and the 
nation’s second-highest team batting average into a tournament it will be favored to win. In Katelyn Boyd, the Sun Devils have one of the country’s most versatile and dangerous lead-off batters.
Baylor (45-13) In their two Super Regional wins against Georgia, the Bears scored 14 runs. They scored 12 in their previ-ous six games, struggling to support pitcher Whitney Canion (29-10, 1.28 ERA). 
California (44-11) Jolene Henderson (39-8, 0.87 ERA) has four more wins than any other pitcher in softball this season. 
Cal will rely heavily on her as the team’s lineup drops hard after it’s 1-3 batters. The Bears will rely on short game as 
much as any team in this season’s WCWS.
Florida (52-10) Since catching ﬁ  re in a regional Game 7 against UCLA, the Gators bats have been as hot as ever. Led by 
Brittany Schutte and Michelle Moultrie, Florida has scored 27 runs in its past three games. But the Gators will only go as 
far in Oklahoma City as their senior/freshman pitching duo of Stephanie Brombacher and Hannah Rogers can take them.
Missouri (52-8) Staff ace Chelsea Thomas has been the weight all season for the Tigers. She’s leads the country in ERA 
(0.83) and is 31-6 on the season. In the Columbia Super Regional, teammate Nicole Hudson was her most notable of-
fensive support.
Oklahoma (43-17) No player at this year’s WCWS will get as much attention as Sooners ace Keilani Ricketts. The sopho-
more left-hander held Arizona’s dynamic lineup to two earned runs in Super Regionals. She doubles as the team’s clean-up hitter and also smashed two bombs against the Wildcats. The Sooners will be playing just 26 miles from home.
Oklahoma State (42-18) For the ﬁ  rst time ever, Oklahoma’s two major teams made the WCWS in the same season. The Cowgirls are the only unseeded team remaining and will have to rely on sophomore Kat Espinosa and a front-loaded lineup if they want to continue the magic that has taken them past Tennessee and Houston so far.
2011 NCAA
Women's College
*(2) Alabama  In the first session of the WCWS, the higher-ranked
Game 1  team is home team.  After first-round games, teams
Noon, Thurs., June 2  shall alternate as home team according to the
ESPN2 HD/ESPN3.com^  formula applied by the games committee. 
(7) California Game 5
6 p.m., Fri., June 3
Oklahoma St. ESPN HD/ESPN3.com^
Game 2
2:30 p.m., Thurs., June 2
ESPN2 HD/ESPN3.com^ Game 11
*(11) Baylor Noon, Sun., June 5
ESPN HD/ESPN3.com^
11 a.m., Sat., June 4
ESPN HD/ESPN3.com^ Game 9
6 p.m., Sat., June 4
ESPN2 HD/ESPN3.com^
*(1) Arizona St.
Game 3
6 p.m., Thurs., June 2
ESPN2 HD/ESPN3.com^
(9) Oklahoma Game 6
8:30 p.m., Fri., June 3
(5) Missouri ESPN HD/ESPN3.com^
Game 4
8:30 p.m., Thurs., June 2
ESPN2 HD/ESPN3.com^
*(4) Florida Game 12
2:30 p.m., Sun., June 5
ESPN HD/ESPN3.com^
1:30 p.m., Sat., June 4
ESPN HD/ESPN3.com^ Game 10
8:30 p.m., Sat., June 4
ESPN2 HD/ESPN3.com^
* Denotes home team
^ Denotes broadcast available on ESPN Mobile
All games played at ASA Hall of Fame Stadium in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Bracket note:  
1.  If the winner of Game 9 defeats the winner of Game 5, then Game 13 is necessary.2.  If the winner of Game 10 defeats the winner of Game 6, then Game 14 is necessary.
3.  If only one if necessary game is needed, it will be played at 6 p.m. on Sunday.
*Note:  The NCAA Division I Softball Committee reserves the right to revise the schedule (i.e., game times)
               in the event weather conditions and/or media/television commitments require such adjustments.Best 2-of-3 SeriesGame 13
Championship Finals
Loser of Game 5Game 2: 7 p.m., Tues., June 7
Game 3: 7 p.m., June 8 (if nec.)
ESPN2 HD/ESPN3.comWorld Series (WCWS)
ChampionLoser of Game 6                                  Game 7
Game 1: 7 p.m., Mon., June 6(if necessary)
6 p.m., Sun., June 5
ESPN2 HD/ESPN3.com
Visit www.NCAA.com/broadcast and click on the NCAA TV and NCAA.com Broadcast Schedule link for the most current air dates, game times and networks.(if necessary)
8:30 p.m., Sun., June 5Game 14
ESPN2 HD/ESPN3.com
Game 8      
ALL TIMES LISTED ARE LOCAL (CENTRAL TIME)
Source: NCAA.com* Denotes home team
^ Denotes broadcast available on ESPN mobile
All games played at ASA Hall of Fame Stadium in 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
All times listed are local (Central Time)
Bracket Note:
1. If the winner of Game 9 defeats the winner of Game 5, then Game 13 is necessary
2. If the winner of Game 10 defeats the winner of Game 6, 
then Game 14 is necessary.
3. If only one if necessary game is needed, it will be played 
at 6 p.m. on Sunday.
*Note: The NCAA Division I Softball Committee reserves 
the right to revise the schedule (i.e. game times) in 
the event weather conditions and/or media/television 
commitments require such adjustments.Game 3: 7 p.m., Wed. June 8 (if nec.)
Rosa Taveras / Alligator StaffSports
THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
OKLAHOMA CITY — On Flor -
ida’s star-laden team, Lauren Heil 
is a role player.
The reserve third baseman has 
played in just 13 games this sea-son, primarily serving as a pinch 
runner throughout her UF career.
But that doesn’t mean her 
words don’t speak volumes about the new direction of Florida’s of-
fense. 
When Gators coach Tim Walton 
was asked about the fresh side his team debuted in a season-ending series sweep against Tennessee, he 
immediately referenced his junior 
backup. 
“She was sitting next to me in 
our meeting,” he said. 
“It was nice to hear her say, ‘I’ve 
been to the [Women’s College] 
World Series twice [as a Gator], 
and we just don’t hit the ball as far as we want to. We need to get the 
little hits.’”
Heil’s point is supported by 
three years of frustration for UF. 
Tonight, Florida will begin 
its fourth consecutive run in the 
WCWS. 
Its previous three experiences 
have ended in disappointment, with the Gators falling shy of a na-
tional title every time.Walton said this year’s team is 
“a little more dynamic” than the 
ones before them, making it clear 
how he feels about this squad’s 
chances. “It’s been nice to have a little bit 
more dimension,” he said. 
“Every year from here on out, 
we’re going to get a little more di-mensional. That’s been the goal all along.”
Since Walton arrived at UF, the 
Gators have been known for their power. 
However, that power has often fizzled when facing the elite pitch-ing that’s constantly present in 
Oklahoma City. 
Florida is 7-6 on college soft-
ball’s grandest stage. 
In its six losses, UF has scored 
a total of nine runs. In both 2008 
(Megan Bush) and 2009 (Corrie 
Brooks), a Gators hitter led the 
tournament in strikeouts.
When Florida began to falter of-
fensively again toward the end of the regular season, the team knew it was time for a change. 
The Gators started to implement 
more of a short-game approach, and Walton said the philosophical 
change was  simply a realization 
that not everyone in UF’s lineup needs to be taking huge swings.
“We have a lot better look to us 
lately, doing a little hit-and-run, steals, bunts,” said Kelsey Bruder, 
after admitting her team had got-
ten “predictable.”
This postseason, Florida has 
been fueled by the explosiveness of athletes like Michelle Moultrie (nine hits, seven stolen bases) and 
Cheyenne Coyle (six RBIs, five 
stolen bases) — while still keep-
ing the steady power of mainstays 
like Megan Bush (six RBIs), Bruder 
(two doubles, three RBIs) and Brit-tany Schutte (three homers, nine 
POLL QUESTION FLORIDA TRACK AND FIELD ONLINE
Today’s question: If you were a 
SEC football coach, would you sign Steve Spurrier’s proposal to pay players out of your own pocket?n Don’t miss extensive coverage of the Women’s College World Series 
as beat writer Bryan Holt reports live from Oklahoma City. Also check out UF’s top-ranked baseball team as it attempts to capture the Gainesville Regional, while UF’s men’s golf team continues its quest for a NCAA Championship. Go to alligatorSportrs.org for daily updates. n With the NCAA Championships a week away, both the men’s 
and women’s track and field teams are ranked in the top 20 of the latest NCAA rankings. Will Claye, Jeff Demps and Christian Taylor of the No. 2 men’s team were all named to the final watch list for The Bowerman, track and field’s most prestigious award. Steven H. Keys / Alligator 
The Gators advanced to their fourth straight Women’s College World Series thanks to continued growth on offense. Florida will play Missouri tonight at 9:30 p.m., and the game will be televised on ESPN2. 
UF SOFTBALLGators hope offensive evolution will end WCWS woes
UF could ride rollercoaster 
weekend to championship
As Brian Johnson lay motion-
less just off the clay of the pitcher’s mound Saturday at 
the Southeastern Conference Tour -
nament, one thought reverberated through my mind. 
Why is there even an end of the 
year tournament held after a gruel-ing 56-game season? 
Teams play multiple games in 
the sweltering heat of Hoover, Ala., 
further draining an already depleted 
reservoir of energy necessary for a run in the real postseason. And then players like Johnson suffer superflu-
ous injuries.
“I was scared,” senior Josh Ad-
ams said in reaction to the freak 
play that sent Johnson to the turf in a heap. “I’ve seen Tommy [Toledo] like that before, and seeing Bri-an … I felt nau-
seous.”
Johnson  
was carted off 
the field on a 
stretcher after 
finally regain-ing conscious-
ness. He was taken to a hospital 
where it was deemed he had suf-
fered a mild concussion. Coach Kev-in O’Sullivan says he is day-to-day.
Arguments have been made, and 
will continue to be made, against conference tournaments. 
I support those arguments.By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
Five questions to ponder as No. 1 Florida 
opens the NCAA Tournament Friday at 4 p.m. 
against Manhattan. 
1. Can the Gators knock out the Hur -
ricanes for the third straight season?
This Gainesville Regional has no short-
age of interesting storylines, but the match-
up between UF and Miami definitely sheds the brightest spotlight. While both teams will have to hurdle over pesky mid-majors 
— Manhattan is the MAAC Champs and 
have won 25 of its last 30 games, while Jacksonville sports a powerful lineup with hot-shot prospect Adam Brett Walker lead-ing the charge — the regional will likely 
come down to the Gators and ‘Canes. Flor -
ida bounced Miami two years ago in the 
Gainesville Regional. Last 
season, UF swept UM in 
the Super Regionals when 
the Hurricanes committed a startling nine errors in two games, leading to eight un-
earned runs. Senior second baseman Josh 
Adams immediately started smiling when 
asked about the ‘Canes, saying, “I can’t wait to play them. We have to get past the first game, but we’ll see what happens. … Previewing start to NCAAs 
BaseballSEE SOFTBALL, p AGE 18
SEE WATTS, p AGE 17SEE BASEBALL, p AGE 17
Matt Watts
Telling You Watts Up 
mwatts@alligator.org20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2011
1. Oversigning - With SEC coaches upholding their previous opinions on gray-shirting 
and oversigning, Destin is all ears for any new legislation that comes out of the league meetings. All 12 head coaches voted to keep the current 28-enrollee limit, including Tennessee coach Derek Dooley, who believes the two-year-old rule works fine if coaches adhere to it. “Coaches always love to complain about what people say, but generally we’re the ones that cause the problem,” Dooley said. “There’s a difference between overage and excessive signing. What we started addressed the excessive signing. We need to allow for a little overage.” Proposals for new legislation are expected on Friday from SEC commissioner Mike Slive and the 12 university presidents and athletic direc-tors. Most accounts have the presidents against oversigning.
2. Paid to Play - Also in the realm of treating players better, the league is discussing 
doling out extra money for players’ non-academic costs. South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier presented an interesting proposal Wednesday, saying coaches should pay players $300 each game out of their own pockets for “expenses.” According to the AP, Dooley, Will Muschamp, Nick Saban, Les Miles, Houston Nutt and Dan Mullen have already signed the proposal. “I just wish there was a way to give our players a piece of the pie,” Spurrier said. “It’s just so huge right now.” Going into the meetings, Slive said the student-welfare issue needed to be revisited. Florida offensive line recruit Jessamen Dunker of Boynton Beach proposed a solution in an interview with The Wall Street Jour-nal, saying student-athletes should receive up to $5,000 a semester for their talents.
3. Basketball Realignment - After pitting the East versus the West for the past 20 years, 
the SEC is debating whether to reconstruct its basketball league into a single 12-team division, and if so, how it will seed it for the tournament. Gators coach Billy Donovan recommended ranking each team according to RPI, like the NCAA Tournament. The coaches came to a unanimous decision Wednesday to eliminate divisions, and the pro-posal is expected to pass and go into effect next season.After two days of discussions and 
interviews at the annual Southeastern Conference Spring Meetings in Destin, coaches have proposed potential monumental changes including paying players and basketball realignment. SEC Meetings
Mike Slive
Courtesy of UF Communications
Dollars and Sense 
Gators coach Will Muschamp has been busy this week in Destin 
as the SEC host its annual Spring Meetings. Tuesday, Muschamp spoke out against oversigning, saying, “That’s a policy we have at the university. We’ve been successful, so it’s not an issue for us.” On Wednesday, Muschamp was one of seven coaches to sign South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier’s proposal to pay student-athletes out of their own pockets. 
John Boothe and Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff