VOLUME 106 ISSUE 22 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Five arrested in narcotics bust
Police have arrest warrants out for four more 
suspects, pg. 5. 
UPD advisory council to meet Friday morning
The council meets on an as-needed basis, pg 3.  
UF freshmen enter with lower average SAT scores
Following a national trend, the average score dipped, pg 4. 
Tiesto brings his 
tour to Gainesville 
Sept. 26. Check out 
our interview with 
the DJ in today’s 
Avenue. See Story, 
Page 9. 
89/71
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 9CLASSIFIEDS 14
CROSSWORD  17SPORTS 20SCHOLARSHIPS
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
 
  Money may not be able to buy happi-
ness, but it just might get you into college.
  A survey released Wednesday by In-
side Higher Ed, an online publication for 
higher education professionals, indicates that increasing numbers of admissions of-ﬁ  cers are taking students’ ﬁ  nancial situ-ations into account when making admis-sions decisions.
  Of the 462 admissions ofﬁ  cers surveyed 
at four-year colleges, 22 percent said the economic downturn has forced them to pay more attention to applicants’ ﬁ  nancial statuses.
  About a third of admissions ofﬁ  cers said their universities have increased their efforts of recruiting “full-pay students” — students able to pay all of their tuition without aid. Ten percent said these stu-dents might be admitted despite lower grades and test scores when compared to other applicants.
  Similarly, about 40 percent of the re-
sponders said their universities have been working harder to recruit more out-of-state students, who typically pay much higher tuition than in-state students do.
  At UF, in-state tuition for undergradu-
ates was about $3,500 for the 2010-2011 school year. For out-of-state students it was almost $25,000.
  Right now, about 10 percent of students 
 Some colleges looking to ﬁ  nancial aid status for admissions
SEE AID, PAGE 8� INNOVATION ACADEMY 
STUDENTS WILL ARRIVE IN SPRING 2013.
  ERIN JESTER
 Alligator Writer
 
  With college applications 
starting to trickle in, UF’s Inno-
vation Academy has received its ﬁ  rst batch of applicants for the Spring 2013 semester.
  Innovation Academy is an 
enrollment model in which students attend classes only during the Spring and Summer semesters.
  During the fall, they may 
study abroad, participate in research or take online classes, but they may not physically at-tend classes on campus.
  Zina Evans, vice president of 
enrollment management, said the word about the program has been out since last spring, but admissions counselors hit road about two weeks ago to start talking with students, par-ents and guidance counselors around the state. 
  Evans said admissions 
counselors aren’t recruiting for Innovation Academy; rather, they’re running an informa-tion campaign with students and encouraging them to think about whether the program is right for them or not.  Innova-tion Academy is featured on the admissions ofﬁ  ce website, too.
  The program is being mar-
keted as an opportunity for students to move through UF in a smaller, cohesive group while still getting the full Gator experience. Counselors are also  New program now 
taking applicants
SEE INNOVATION, PAGE 8
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Writer
 
  Chris Crenshaw is a voracious reader.
  Between the libraries on UF’s campus and the public 
county libraries, he reads about ﬁ  ve books a week. The 25-year-old history junior will read just about anything, but he prefers historical books, especially ones with ties to the South.
  He has a Kindle, but like many book lovers, he prefers to read “real” books.
  After the Alachua County Public Library District an-
nounced that patrons will now be able to borrow e-books through their Kindles, Crenshaw said he’ll probably start reading more books on the device.
  Amazon announced the beginning of its partnership 
with library e-book vendor OverDrive Wednesday morn-ing, and the program immediately went live.
  Under the partnership, about 11,000 public and school 
libraries nationwide will be able to lend books directly through the nation’s most popular e-reading platform — the Kindle and the Kindle app.
  Library patrons can search the book catalog on the Ala-
chua County Library website where there will now be a “Send to Kindle” option. 
  After entering their library card number, Kindle users 
will be redirected to Amazon.com where they can log in and have the book delivered to their device via Wi-Fi or USB.
  Once on the Kindle, the book will be available for two 
weeks. After that time, the license will expire and the e-book will go back into circulation. Only one person can  Alachua County public libraries now offer e-books for checkoutGina Chitko / Alligator
 Center Stage 
Mistress and master of ceremonies Jennise Acosta and Alex Castro introduce the acts for the Hispanic 
Heritage Month Talent Show in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom Wednesday night. See story, page 3.
Patrons can send books from website to Kindles
SEE LIBRARY, PAGE 8News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 22 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tyler Jett, Greg Luca,
  Corey McCall, Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Adrianna Paidas, Lily Parkinson, 
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Sales Development Manager Brandon Davis
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,  
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus
 C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Alexander Silva, Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening
India Student Association: 
Teach Me How to Garba
Today, 7 to 9 p.m.Reitz Union ColonnadeLearn how to do garba, which is a traditional Indian dance.
Graduate School Information 
DayToday, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomThe UF Graduate School will be hosting its annual Graduate School Information Day, which is open to all students interested in con-tinuing their education by pursuing master’s and doc-toral degrees. Attendees will have an opportunity to meet with key department faculty and staff and representa-tives of graduate admissions, financial aid and housing. Workshops will be offered on graduate school prepara-tion and the application pro-cess and making the transi-tion from the undergraduate environment. Registration forms can be found on the Graduate School website at gradschool.ufl.edu. For ad-ditional information, please contact us at ogmp@ufl.edu 
or 352-392-6444. 
Study Abroad Info Session 
Today, 3 p.m.
Stuzin Hall 200There will be a study abroad information session high-lighting the UF exchange programs and the semester programs in London, Rome, Paris and Madrid. All UF students and majors are wel-come. RSVP on Facebook: “Study Abroad Info Session — September 22.” Contact 352-273-0165 to schedule an appointment if you’re unable 
to attend the session.
First Year Florida Peer Leader 
Info Session
Today, 5:10 p.m. Jennings ClassroomFirst Year Florida is now accepting applications for Peer Leader positions. Peer Leaders are an influential group of student leaders who co- teach First Year Florida and assist freshmen with the opportunity to learn about campus resources, diversity and involvement opportu-nities. Applications are due to New Student and Family Programs by 4:30 p.m. Monday, October 10. To learn more, attend tonight’s info session, visit bit.ly/TeachFYF  or contact Alison Spannaus at 
AlisonS@dso.ufl.edu.  
Gators for Free the Slaves 
Ice Cream Social and First Meeting
Today, 8:30 p.m.Little Hall 127Join Gators for Free the Slaves for the group’s first meeting and ice cream social. The group will be discussing its purpose, which involves The event is free for UF and Santa Fe students with their 
student IDs. 
Gainesville Hogs Rugby 
Club vs. Golden Isles Hammerheads, RFC vs. St. Augustine RFC
Saturday, noon to 4 p.m.Squirrel Ridge Park, corner of Williston Road and SW 13th StreetCome out to this double-header — the Gainesville Hogs’ first home games of the season. Learn about the game and support the local rugby team. Drinks will be on sale at the game to benefit the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. A social will follow the game for all in atten-dance.
Cultural Shifts
Monday, Sept. 26, 6 p.m.Pugh HallJeff Klinkenberg writes about Florida culture and the people who make the state unique. He joined the St. Petersburg Times in 1977, and his work takes him from Pensacola to Key West. He will be discussing his mus-ings about the cultural shifts taking place in the state. His new book, which is a collec-tion of his favorite columns, is entitled “Pilgrim in the 
Land of Alligators.” 
Ilesa Ire (House of Blessings) 
presents Saturday Black Cinema
Oct. 15, 1 p.m.4307 NE 70th PlaceThe event is a fund raiser featuring the movies “Back to Africa” and “Songo.” Suggested donations are $8 for adults and $1 for children under 13. For more informa-tion call 352-505-3802 or 904-742-8499. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to  jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.fighting and preventing human trafficking, and up-
coming events.
“Climb for Cancer” Concert 
Free mini-performance to-
day at 10:30 a.m.UF Shands Cancer Center AtriumBarbara Padilla, who fin-ished as a runner-up on America’s Got Talent, will be in Gainesville to-day and tomorrow to help raise awareness and funds for  Climb for Cancer. She is performing Friday night at 7:30 p.m. with the UF graduate and Broadway performer Felipe Barbosa Bombonato and P.K. Yonge performing arts students at the Curtis M. Phillips Center for Performing Arts. Tickets are available at the Phillips Center box office 
and at Ticketmaster. 
Gator Plunge
Saturday, 8:15 a.m. to 2 p.m.  
Plaza of the Americas, 
in front of Peabody Hall  
Gator Plunge is a single-day service project where hundreds of volunteers will branch out into vari-ous areas of Gainesville to participate in service projects. Service projects may include working with animals, art and culture, youth development, elder care, environmental issues, homelessness and housing and much more. Students will be able to learn about service opportunities in Gainesville, meet new people, network with cam-pus leaders and experience their community first-hand. Register online at leader -
shipandservice.ufl.edu/ga-
torplunge.php. 
UF Women’s Rugby Gator 
Invitational 2011
Saturday, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.  
UVS FieldCome support the UF Women’s Rugby Club in their annual Gator Invitational this weekend at UVS Field. Colleges and women’s teams from all around Florida will display their mind-blowing plays, great teamwork and hard hits at the hope of walk-ing away champions. Come out to witness the exciting sport of rugby at the Gator Invitational. For more in-formation, visit ufwomen-
srugby.com.
India Student Association 
Presents Garba
Saturday, 8 p.m. to 12 a.m.  
Stephen C. O’Connell Center  
THUNDER
STORMS
89/71THUNDER
STORMS
89/70THUNDER
STORMS
87/69THUNDER
STORMS
86/67THUNDER
STORMS
88/66MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Body President Ben Meyers and the 
seven other members of the UPD Campus Advisory 
Committee will meet Friday to discuss issues affecting the relationship between University Police and the UF campus community. 
The meeting will start at 9 a.m. at the Jennings  Hall 
Office at the intersection of Newell Drive and Museum Road, according to the UPD website. 
The committee was established in April, and its 
members consist of UF students, employees and UPD Chief Linda Stump. It meets on an as-needed basis. Meyers said the meeting may have been called to 
discuss former UPD officer Keith Smith’s Sept. 1 firing due to his overall conduct. 
An investigation into Smith’s con-
duct was launched after he threat-ened to shoot a 20-year-old man he had pulled over for reckless driving on July 23. Smith was involved in a previous controversy over the shoot-ing of a UF graduate student, Kofi  Adu-Brempong, in March 2010. 
The UPD website does not men-
tion any specific reason for the meeting, which is the third one held by the committee.  
MeyersAundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Colors of the wind
Yellow pinwheels sit stuck in the ground on the Plaza of the Americas Wednesday. The pinwheels were 
set up by March of Dimes to raise awareness about infant death due to premature birth. Each pinwheel represented a premature death that occurred last year.
UPD advisory committee to meet Friday
AUDREYANNA LOGUERRE
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Students from a variety of 
campus organizations danced, 
sang and improvised Wednes-day night at the Hispanic Heri-tage Month Talent Show.
The event took place at 7 
p.m. at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, and it was held to highlight student talent, said Raymond Dueñas, director of Hispanic Heritage Month.
More than 500 people at-
tended the show this year, sur -
passing last year’s attendance by about 150 people.
UF’s Hispanic Heritage As-
sociation funded the festivities on a  $3,000 budget, Dueñas said.
There were 13 acts in the 
show, and each performer had eight minutes to perform in one of three categories: freestyle, vocal or dance performance.
Moments before the show 
began, UF J-Club Dance Team, a Yosakoi Bushi dance group, sat waiting by the side of the stage as other performers did sound checks. 
The dancers prepared to 
perform a traditional Japanese dance routine to the song “Ris-ing” by the Yoshida Brothers. 
Telecommunication sopho-
more Samantha Green, a per -
former in the group, said she was nervous.
“I learned the dance on 
Monday ,” Green said. “I’m nervous, but I didn’t want to be the only one left [behind].” Students began to fill the 
room at about 7:15 p.m., and some stopped to have their pic-tures taken in a life-size cut out of a flashy Hollywood couple. The Reggaeton song “Loco” by Jordan y Randy , who is also preforming at the HHM con-cert next week, filled the speak-ers.  
The Sabor Latino dance 
team took home the award for best group in the dance cat-egory . The group danced to Lady Gaga music, the women dressed in colorful tutus and yellow-and-black striped stock-ings and the men clad in black pants and white button-down T-shirts.
Criminology and psychol-
ogy junior Janioris Diaz Rodri-guez came out on top in the vo-cal category , and the UF Fitness Demo Group, with the Depart-ment of Recreational Sports, won in the freestyle category . 
Andi Rendon, a family , 
youth and community sciences senior, took home the fan fa-vorite award, which was given for the first time this year. Each performer had a donation con-tainer set up, and audience members could choose their favorite performer by putting money into that performer’s container. The total amount raised, $52.73, will be donated to Padres Contra El Cancer, a Latino organization that seeks to educate the public about childhood cancer, other blood disorders and their respective treatment methods.Talent show draws 
more than 500JASMINE EARLS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Commission has 
once again opted to postpone the decision 
to move county fairgrounds from its current location in east Gainesville to Newberry.
After nearly a decade of stalled efforts 
in appropriating the fairground land by the City of Gainesville and Alachua County, the decision leaves many questions open.
Plan East Gainesville, a redevelopment 
plan completed in 2003, makes reinvest-ment on the east side a priority for the city, but the city of Newberry’s newest proposal calls to move the fairgrounds to the west.
City officials argue that moving the 
fairgrounds to the west 
would further debilitate East Gainesville’s dwin-dling economy. 
Some county officials 
have also recognized that moving the fairgrounds neglects the original in-centives in Plan East 
Gainesville.
“Newer development has generally 
been focused in the west, and the city is concerned that it’s just another piece be-ing taken away from east Gainesville,” said Deputy County Manager Rick Drummond. East Gainesville has been left out in 
terms of economic development, and the city wants to keep the fairgrounds there as an economic driver, Drummond said.“We’re still moving forward with plans 
for the fairgrounds,” Drummond said. “Just a bit slower than we expected.” 
He said county officials, on the other hand, understand that the land hasn’t been adequately used, and the Newberry pro-posal focuses primarily on the full use of that land.
Projected construction costs outlined in 
Plan East Gainesville are estimated over $40 million.
The Commission-approved plan in-
cludes the construction of a 50,000 square foot coliseum, a 48,000 square foot exhibi-tion hall, a 50,000 square foot equestrian and livestock arena, an events lawn and a parking area. Construction would start in April 2012.
A 2-percent Tourist Development Tax 
would be implemented to offset costs.
The Tourist Development Tax, which is 
funded by tourists to the area, would be added to hotel and motel bills, campsites and short-term rentals.
The annual expected return of the Tour -
ist Development Tax would be $650,000.  
During a commission meeting Tuesday, 
county commissioners urged that moving the fairgrounds to Newberry makes more sense economically because sports tour -
ism facilities already exist in the area and would only further stem business for the fairgrounds.
Earlier this year, plans to gauge interest 
for the land in the private sector were met with little enthusiasm.4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
Alligator File Photo
The Alachua County Fair, which was canceled in 2010 for the first time in 40 years due 
to financial problems, may be moving from its current location in east Gainesville to Newberry depending on a decision from the Alachua County Commission.
County officials considering moving fairgrounds to Newberry
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Even in the pursuit of the best and 
the brightest, UF is not immune to a 
national dip in SAT scores among high school graduates.
High school students who grad-
uated in 2011 nationally averaged a reading score of 497, three points lower than last year and the lowest on record, according to a report by the College Board, which adminis-ters the SAT. 
The writing average score 
dropped two points to 489, and the math average score went down one point to 514.
At UF last year, the SAT aver -
age was 1993 points, but this year it has dropped 35 points to 1958, said Steve Orlando, UF spokesman.
“It’s reflective of the national 
trend,” he said. “We’re not con-cerned about it.”
About 1.65 million students took 
the test nationally.
Normally , UF’s SAT scores have 
been increasing, but this year fol-lowed the national dip.
“One year doesn’t make a trend,” 
he said.
Orlando said the decrease of SAT 
scores doesn’t say anything about the students recently admitted to UF.
“SAT scores are only one of a lot 
of pieces we look at when it comes to admission,” Orlando said.
The UF admissions office looks 
at the kind of course load a student handled during his or her high school years.
Both the kind and difficulty of 
coursework give a more accurate view of the student in comparison to SAT scores alone, Orlando said.
Of the 29,000 students who ap-plied in 2011, just 11,423 high school graduates made it through the ap-plication process.
Of those, 6,400 students decided 
to come to UF in the fall, he said.
Those other 5,023 went to other 
schools for their college education, 
including MIT, Stanford, Duke and more, Or -
lando said.
“We unfor -
tunately said 
‘no’ to a lot of outstanding stu-dents,” he said.
In the state of 
Florida, UF was the university with the third most SAT scores sent for consideration, according to a Col-lege Board report. 
The University of Central Florida 
was number one and Florida State University was number two.The SAT was taken by 114,769 
students in Florida during this past year, according to the College Board report.
Each one of the three SAT sec-
tions is scored from 200 to 800, with 2400 being the highest possible score a student can earn. 
This year’s combined average 
was 1500, which is six points less than last year’s, 1506.
For students in Miami-Dade, the 
county that sends the second most students to UF with 4,132, following Broward County with 4,900, scores aren’t looking much better. 
All scores in Miami-Dade on av-
erage were lower this year, follow-ing the national blip of decreased SAT scores.The scores decreased less than the state average but more than the national standard.
Of those 12,780 Miami-Dade 
County high school students who took the SAT this year, the average reading score was 467. 
That’s 20 points less than the 
Florida average and 30 points less than the national average, accord-ing to a memorandum from Alberto Carvalho, Miami-Dade superinten-dent of schools.
The Miami-Dade high school stu-
dents averaged a score of 466 in the math section, 23 points lower than the Florida average and 48 points below the national average, accord-ing to the memo.
Writing-section scores for the 
Miami-Dade students this year av-eraged 452, which is 19 points less than the state-average and 37 points less than the nation’s average.
The students’ average SAT read-
ing scores fell six points from 2010, their math scores fell three points and their writing scores dropped five points.
Average SAT scores of high school graduates down this yearhigher educ AtionERIN DONAHUE
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Tragedy struck earlier this month for a Santa Fe Col-
lege student. 
While participating in a cheerleading stunt with 
friends, Cara Moro, 19, of Apopka, Fla., fell onto her neck 
and shattered vertebrae in her spine, according to co-worker Kristina St. Peter. 
Moro worked as a hostess and a server at Gator’s Dock-
side for more than a year, St. Peter said. 
To help raise money for Moro’s hospital stay and re-
habilitation, a breakfast will be held at Gator’s Dockside, 3842 Newberry Road, Saturday from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m.  The event has been named the Caring for Cara Fundraiser.
Tickets for the fundraiser are $6 and can be purchased 
at Gator’s Dockside or from employees who will be sell-ing tickets in their classes and around campus at UF as well as at Santa Fe College. The restaurant’s Twitter and Facebook pages are also 
being used to spread the word to the Gainesville commu-nity. 
Moro spent a week at Shands HealthCare hospital and 
was recently transported to Shepherd Center in Atlanta, Ga., a “private, not-for-profit hospital specializing in medical treatment, research and rehabilitation for people with spinal cord injury and brain injury,” according to the hospital’s website. 
Bianca Bonito, a co-worker and friend of Moro’s, has 
been in contact with her since the accident. “She’s just a good person,” Bonito said. “Everything she says is posi-tive.”Unlike other fundraisers hosted by Gator’s Dockside, 
the Caring for Cara Fundraiser will  donate 100 percent of its proceeds to Moro’s family in order to help pay for hos-pital and rehabilitation expenses, said Russ Bockemuehl, kitchen manager at Gator’s Dockside. 
A ticket will get you a drink, pancakes, eggs and ba-
con, according to St. Peter. 
“This will be the biggest breakfast we’ve ever had,” 
Bockemuehl said. 
As of last week at least 350 tickets have already been 
sold by the 35 servers who currently work at the restau-rant. 
“It really hits home when it’s someone from the Ga-
tor’s Dockside family,” Bockemuehl said. 
The staff has rallied together in order to help Cara and 
her family. 
“I just want everything to be taken care of,” Bonito said. 
“All of their worries should be on Cara, not on money.”Restaurant to host breakfast to raise money for injured employeedrummond
“This will be the biggest breakfast we’ve ever 
had.”  
Russ Bockemuehl 
Gator’s Dockside kitchen manager
orlando
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
SWAT teams and law enforce-
ment officials descended upon the 
Porter’s Oaks neighborhood in Gainesville Wednesday to execute search warrants for three residences for narcotics.    
It was a joint operation between 
the Gainesville Police Department and the Alachua County Sheriff’s Of-fice SWAT teams. 
The warrants were issued based on information obtained during un-dercover investigations conducted by the Gainesville-Alachua County Drug Task Force, said Cpl. Angelina Valuri, the GPD public information officer. 
The addresses served with war -
rants were: 627 SW Fifth St., 207 SW Sixth Ave. and 507 SW Sixth Place.  
Five people were arrested for the 
sale and possession of cocaine: Troy Maddox, 31; James Eaddy, 42; John T. Clark, 51; Pamela F. White, 42; and LeDerrick D. Coffee, 22. They were taken to the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office where they were questioned by GPD detectives. 
There are arrest warrants out for 
four other suspects as well.
These individuals are: Julius 
Rumph, 27, and Roderick McKnight, 21, for the sale and possession of co-caine; and Anthony Kincade, 51, and April Rosier, 36, for the sale and pos-session of cannabis. 
Anyone with information on 
these suspects can call GPD at 352-955-1818, Valuri said. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Morgan Watkins / Alligator
Five people were arrested Wednesday by Gainesville Police officers and charged with the sale and possession 
of cocaine. Warrants are still out on four other suspects. 
Five arrests made in narcotics bust
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 2,500 UF sorority sisters will get together 
next week to commemorate Panhellenic Pride Week. 
Members of all 16 sorority chapters will partici-
pate in various events to showcase their pride in the 
community, said Carey Mays, program coordinator for the Office of Sorority and Fraternity Affairs. Pride Week activities will run Monday through Friday.
“Panhellenic Pride Week is a week of events to get 
the Panhellenic community together to celebrate be-ing in a sorority,” Mays said.
On Monday and Wednesday, sorority sisters will 
volunteer at Gainesville elementary schools.
Many sororities will also hold events to raise mon-
ey for those affected by the April tornadoes in Tusca-loosa and at the University of Alabama, Mays said.
Sigma Kappa pledged to raise a minimum of $200 
for Alabama, said 19-year-old Laura Shen, a public re-lations sophomore and Sigma Kappa sister. Sisters are encouraged to purchase ‘champions helping champi-ons’ T-shirts because proceeds from the sales will go the relief fund.
The Panhellenic Council will hold a block party 
Thursday from 6 to 8 p.m. for chapter members. Each chapter will bake a dessert to share with the other chapters.
“I have lots of friends in all the Panhellenic chap-
ters,” Shen said. “I really enjoy repping my letters and seeing sisters and fellow Greeks all around campus.” UF sororities to mix 
pride with charity
“I really enjoy repping my letters and 
seeing sisters and fellow Greeks all around 
campus.” 
Laura Shen 
Sigma Kappa sisterReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORTestimony Troubles
Eyewitness accounts 
may not be enough 
Last night, the state of Georgia killed Troy Davis. 
Davis was convicted in 1991 of murdering Savannah 
police officer Mark MacPhail. 
His conviction was based solely on eyewitness testimony. 
No physical or biological evidence tied Davis to the scene of the 
crime.
Many believe Davis is innocent, and the doubts raised in the 
two decades since his conviction mean there is a possibility that Georgia put an innocent man to death. 
According to the Innocence Project, seven of the nine wit-
nesses who said he shot the police officer have since recanted their testimony . 
Some witnesses, including Jeffrey Sapp, said they were pres-
sured by police to connect Davis with the shooting. 
Was Davis simply in the wrong place at the wrong time? Those speaking out against Troy’s execution have come from 
all sides of the aisle. 
According to ABC News, former Georgia  Congressman Bob 
Barr said, “even for death penalty supporters such as myself, the level of doubt inherent in this case is troubling.”
The fact that his conviction was based solely on eyewitness 
reports is also troubling given the questionable reliability of these statements. 
Psychologist Elizabeth Loftus conducted an experiment in 
which participants were shown a slide show of a car accident. One group of  participants was asked how fast the cars were traveling when they “hit” each other and another group was asked how fast they were going when they “smashed” into each other. 
Members of the second group were more likely to report see-
ing broken glass in the slide show, even though the slide showed no broken glass. 
Maybe this sounds insignificant. What about traumatic 
events like a shooting? Surely people would be able to remem-ber those better.
In another study , 54 students from Duke University answered 
questions about their memory of 9/11 the day after it happened. When the same group of students were asked the same ques-tions years later, most of their stories had completely changed in terms of their surroundings and how they found out about the attacks.   
Although the argument still rages on in the psychological 
community about the ability of people to remember past events, the findings of these studies raise quite a bit of doubt about the validity of eyewitness testimony — especially when the life of a human being hangs in the balance.  
We can certainly debate whether or not a convicted murderer 
deserves to be executed. 
However, when doubt exists about a person’s level of guilt, 
those who support and oppose the death penalty should each give serious consideration to the possible negative consequences of our justice system.
34 TOTAL VOTES62% YES
38% NOWednesday’s question: Are you looking 
forward to using electronic voting for the upcoming SG election?Today’s question: Do you have financial aid to help pay 
your tuition fees?
Netflix separation neglects customer needs
On Monday morning, I received an email from Net-
flix.
I opened it to find a form letter from Netflix 
Inc.’s CEO, Reed Hastings. In it, he politely informed me that he was apologizing for the way his company had mis-handled its last service change.
He also informed me that Netflix would be dissolving, 
breaking up into two separate companies and two sepa-rate services. 
Netflix would still offer online streaming service, while 
the DVD-by-mail service would break off into another company called Qwikster. It would have its own website, its own payment system and its own ratings information.
In short, Netflix would be screwing me.It’s easy to see what inconveniences will arise for cus-
tomers who have previously enjoyed access to both ser-vices. We will now have to visit two separate websites to manage our queues. When a film we’re waiting to get on DVD becomes available for instant streaming, we won’t be notified because the two websites are disconnected. If we’d like recommendations for movies we may enjoy, we’ll have to rate our preferences twice over.
What was once a single, easy service to keep track of 
and enjoy will now become a convoluted mess of wasted time.
This is the same company that expected to lose a mil-
lion subscribers as a result of their recent price hikes. I stuck with them after that move. 
I assumed that the price increase was justified, and I 
recognized that, for a film buff like me, the selection of-fered by Netflix is unrivaled. Still, increasing their prices caused a storm of outrage that you think would have made customer service a top priority at Netflix headquarters.
So I’m left to wonder why a company that is already 
losing customers decided their best step forward was to alienate the ones they have left.
Clearly Hastings believes online streaming is the way 
of the future and that the mail service that made his com-pany so successful over a decade ago will soon become a remnant of the past. He’s said as much, and in a 
line from Netflix’s blog (a line conveniently left out of the email every customer received this week), he spells it out by stating that “DVD by mail may not last forever.”
He’s probably right. Media 
consumption is rapidly chang-ing, and I have no doubt we’ll be 
consuming very little of our entertainment from physical storage units in the near future.
But as important as it is for a technologically based 
company to look to new developments in its field, it’s ab-solutely critical for any company to look to their custom-ers.
And it’s clear Netflix doesn’t agree.Unfortunately, the stockholders do. Following Netf-
lix’s poorly handled price increases earlier this year, share prices dropped 19 percent. I can only imagine a similar fall will accompany this recent change.
Is Netflix destroying itself? It’s too early to tell. But 
we do have to wonder what in the world the executives in California are thinking. They’re separated from most of their customers by thousands of miles and an array of computer screens. 
Apparently that distance has caused them to forget 
who’s sitting on the other side, bookmarking a whole new website for a service they used to be able to get for free.
When huge corporations decide they can neglect their 
customers, we’re the ones who suffer. For my part, I’ll be doing what I can to send a message to the guys in charge. 
After all, without Starz, Netflix’s streaming options are 
lacking — maybe enough to justify cutting my subscrip-tion.
One single message won’t make much of an impact, 
but I imagine millions will. Let’s hope they get it.
Alex Guilmartin is a psychology and pre-law senior at UF. 
His column appears on Thursdays.
Alex Guilmartin
letters@alligator.org THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Columnist wrong about effect of unions
On Monday , Travis Hornsby’s column was 
almost as erroneous as it was backward. 
First, Walker targeted collective bargain-
ing even after the unions agreed to the con-
cessions, making it an attack on the ideal of unions, not about balancing any budgets (he also lowered taxes on corporations).
Second, Boeing moved its plant in retali-
ation to workers striking. This is against the law. Get over it. Boeing broke the law and now needs to pay.
Third, the cleaning staff at UF does have a 
union; it’s AFSCME. UF tried to bust it in 2002 by switching everyone to TEAMS from USPS, and there is a lawsuit in the works on this. Along with AFSCME, there is also UFF and GAU on campus.
Aside from these (and a few other) factual 
errors, Hornsby seems to be stuck in the gross individualism that caused our current eco-nomic crisis. Unions are not to blame; it was the individually motivated greed of a small group of rich people. The bankers speculat-ed on everything from agricultural goods to mortgages, and the bubble collapsed. They got bailed out while working families got sold out.  Now these companies are sitting on nearly $2 trillion, while 1 in 6 Americans are poor, 45 million are on food stamps, and the median income dropped 2.3 percent last year.
We have this mentality that tells us private 
sector, non-unionized employees need to be pitted against public sector, largely union-ized ones. This is a feeble attempt to divide the middle class so everyone will take cuts — a sort of race to the bottom. 
But unions are the vanguard of the middle 
class. They set the standard non-unionized workers enjoy . Everything from child labor laws, the 40-hour work week, overtime pay and retirement came from the union move-ment. Instead of lowering the standard of liv-ing for everyone, how about elevating every-one?
Jeremiah Tattersall
State Organizer for Fight Back Florida
Delegate to the North Central Florida Central 
Labor Council
n n n
Negotiations necessary for peace 
Direct negotiations between the State of 
Israel and the Palestinian National Author -
ity , as opposed to a unilateral declaration of independence at the United Nations, is a fun-damental basis for achieving a peaceful and mutually agreeable formation of a future Pal-estinian state.  
Based on the notion of equality between 
parties wherein joint cooperation, trust and respect for one another underlie any discus-sions, the direct negotiations method is facili-tative in bringing about an agreement that ac-knowledges both historical territorial claims to land while also taking into account the current demographic and security realities involved in the creation of a Palestinian state.  
Direct negotiations is not only an interna-
tionally proven method to reach a construc-tive agreement; it is the only reliable way to achieve true and lasting peace between the Palestinians and the Israelis.  
Israel is a peaceful, democratic nation in a 
region replete with autocratic regimes that do not believe in equality, tolerance of others or nonviolence. Surrounded by enemies, Israel has learned the value of compromising with responsible partners to bring about peaceful ends to violent conflicts.  
Through a combination of goodwill mea-
sures starting with Anwar Sadat’s famous dip-lomatic visit to Jerusalem in 1977 and Israel’s return of the Sinai Peninsula to Egypt, Israel and Egypt were able to negotiate with one another culminating in the Nobel Peace Prize-winning Camp David Accords.   
The Washington Declaration signed be-
tween Jordan and Israel in 1994 led to normal-ized relations between the two states and an end to a 46-year-long state of war. As these resolutions demonstrate, there is no credible and effective substitute for direct negotiations between partners willing to reach a viable, diplomatic and peaceful end to this conflict.  
By refusing to come to the table and negoti-
ate with Israel since last September, the Pales-tinian Authority — despite pleas from Israel, the United States, the European Union and others — is preventing constructive dialogue from taking place that will eventually lead to the formation of a Palestinian state. This in-transigence is not only counterproductive; it can potentially render moot previous progress and goodwill gestures made to resolving this conflict.  Moreover, the Palestinian National Authority’s willingness to engage in unity talks with Hamas, a militant group deemed to be a Foreign Terrorist Organization by the U.S. Department of State whose constitution does not recognize the State of Israel and calls for its destruction, demonstrates misplaced priori-ties and is an action not conducive to reaching a peaceable agreement with Israel.  
Having made historic and unprecedented 
territorial withdrawals throughout her histo-ry , Israel is once again ready to cede territory to others to gain peace. By coming to the nego-tiating table, a lasting peace and amicable end to this bitter conflict can be achieved. It is with this understanding that we ask our fellow stu-dents, faculty members and administrators to support an immediate and prompt resump-tion of direct negotiations between the Pales-tinians and Israelis and to oppose a Palestinian unilateral declaration of independence at the United Nations.  
Claire Miller 
Gators For Israel 
University of Floridain each class are out-of-state, said Steve Orlan-
do, UF spokesman.
The university has no intention of increasing 
the number of out-of-state students it admits in the future, he said.
“An applicant’s financial status is really a 
non-issue for admission,” he said, especially given the fact that about 90 percent of appli-cants have the majority of their tuition paid for already under scholarship programs like Flori-da Bright Futures or Florida Prepaid.
The total amount of financial aid distributed 
to UF students increases every year.
For the 2008-2009 school year, UF distribut-
ed about $501.7 million in aid, which includes employment, grants, loans and scholarships. It distributed about $540.5 million for the 2009-2010 school year.
The survey also indicated that students with 
money aren’t the only ones with an advantage in the admissions process.
Minority students, athletes, veterans, chil-
dren of alumni and men were all cited as groups who may be admitted before other applicants, even if they have lower scores.
Orlando said UF takes a holistic approach 
to the admissions process, meaning SAT scores and grade-point average are not the only fac-tors.
Each applicant is evaluated individually, 
and factors like socioeconomic status, volun-teer experience and special talents are also con-sidered, according to the admissions website.
“We look at the whole person and what they 
can bring to the university,” Orlando said.8, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
Haley Stracher / Alligator
Back to their roots
Rick Rosenbluth, a third-year Jewish studies and family, youth, and community sciences major, and Oscar 
Gonzalez, an ecology graduate student, chat at “Talk Israel” on the Plaza of the Americas Wednesday. 
  
� IT WILL BE HELD SEPT. 
24 AND 25.
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
This weekend, Gainesville’s 
Hispanic flavor will be out in 
full force. 
The Chamber of Hispanic 
Affairs will host the 10th annu-al Downtown Latino Festival in honor of National Hispanic Heritage Month. 
The festival will be held 
from noon to 5 p.m. on Sept. 24 and 25 at the Bo Diddley Downtown Community Plaza at 111 E. University Ave. 
The Chamber of Hispanic 
Affairs, a nonprofit organiza-tion, will bring vendors and informational booths, as well as live musical and cultural per -
formances together. 
“We also strive to connect 
the Hispanic population and greater community to resources such as health awareness, test-ing, non-profits, community resources,” said David Ruiz, treasurer of the Chamber of Hispanic Affairs and organizer of the event.
Though the festival is re-
turning for its 10th year, it has seen changes in the declining economy . 
“The most difficult part of 
planning the festival is from year to year trying to keep the same sponsors and vendors given the economic conditions out there,” Ruiz said. 
According to the 2010 U.S 
Census, 8.4 percent of people living in Alachua County are Hispanic. But the Downtown Latino Festival does not only cater to Hispanics.
It celebrates Latinos and of-
fers them a chance to share their culture with the other 91.6 per -
cent of community members. 
“[The festival] creates a pres-
ence for Latino people. Most people think of Gainesville as a white town. This lets people know about other cultures,” said Stephanie Salazar, presi-dent of The Hispanic Student Association and past attendee of the festival.
According to the College 
Board, 17 percent of UF’s first-year students are Hispanic/Latino. 
Accounting freshman Gloria 
Hernandez said she’s looking forward to the festival. 
“It’s all about the food. You 
can’t get any home cooking up here, at least for us Hispanics,” she said. “I’m definitely attend-ing the festival, [I] have to have my tostada and café con leche.”Latino festival back for 
10th year of food, fun
Kindle feature already up-
and-running on website
check out a copy at a time.
The borrowed books will have 
almost all of the features of pur -
chased Kindle books, including 
the ability to save margin notes, according to a press release.
Nickie Kortus, spokeswoman 
for the Alachua County library system, said the library had been preparing for the launch of this feature for a while but never had a set launch date.
As of Wednesday afternoon, 
the Kindle feature was up-and-running on the library’s website. Kortus said the only glitches to date have been with readers at-tempting to access texts via mo-bile phone apps.
The Alachua County library 
system has offered e-books through OverDrive since 2008, said Kortus. 
These books were download-
able to a PC or an iPad but were not modified for specific e-reader devices.
Not all books available in hard 
copy will be available in e-book format. Some publishing compa-nies, like Macmillan and Simon & Schuster, have refused to give libraries the rights to lend their e-books.
The Alachua County librar -
ies currently offer 5,262 Kindle book titles. Just like the physical branches, the e-branch has multi-ple copies of many titles based on popularity. The library has 9,000 e-books available for checkout.
Kortus said the library, like 
the rest of the country, has seen a huge growth in e-book circula-tion.
In 2010, the county’s e-branch 
saw 58,341 checkouts. So far this year, there have been 105,591 checkouts — a number Kortus expects to increase even more fol-lowing the Kindle agreement.
“We’re so excited to have this 
addition to the services that we can provide our patrons,” she said. “People now have another choice of how they can read.”LibrAry , from page 1
Aid , from page 1Financial aid not a factor at UF Students will only enroll for spring, summer
mentioning that the program allows 
the university to admit more quali-fied students than before because they would take classes during the two terms that aren’t already at ca-pacity , Evans said. 
Although academic instruction 
will be the same as the traditional Fall/Spring enrollment model, stu-dents in any of the 37 majors offered by Innovation Academy will have more opportunities to participate in multidisciplinary activities. Evans said the program places an empha-sis on entrepreneurship and creativ-ity within the courses of study , and students learn about their majors in a much larger context. 
Applications for admission to 
UF opened Aug. 1. As of Monday, Evans said about 2,000 students had applied overall and 8 percent had applied for Innovation Academy . However, she said, the application deadline is Nov . 1, so it’s too early to tell how much interest there is in the program. 
Last year, more than 29,000 stu-
dents applied to UF as freshmen. 
Evans said she 
expects about the same this year.  
Evans said 
students’ main concerns about Innovation Acad-emy had to do with financial aid, whether their ma-
jors were offered and what types of campus activities they’ll be allowed to participate in during the fall.
 “We had many of the same 
questions as with other students coming for the first time,” she said.  
State legislature has adjusted the rules so that Innovation Academy students will receive Bright Futures during the Summer semester, and students will be able to join campus clubs and organizations during Fall semester.
“There are very few limitations 
for students who choose to partici-pate in the program,” Evans said. José Cervantes, a 17-year-old senior at South Dade Senior High in Home-stead, Fla., is about one-third of the way through his application to UF, where he wants to study contempo-rary history . 
He said he would consider ap-
plying to Innovation Academy be-cause of smaller class sizes. As long as his major is available, he doesn’t see a problem with skipping Fall se-mesters.
“It’s no different than going dur -
ing the fall, so I wouldn’t mind, I guess,” he said.
innov Ation , from page 1
“We’re so excited to have 
this addition to the services 
that we can provide our 
patrons.”
Nickie Kortus
spokeswoman for the Alachua 
County library systemEvans
theAvenue    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
Alligator Blogs  
For tips on traveling to away games, sustainable studying 
and one blogger’s combination of feminist issues and baking, head online to alligator.org/blogs.Twit Pick  
@charliesheen: Surrounded by friends and watching the premier of Two and a Half Men. Odd... But cool..! So far a lot of laughs!! Nice... Check out page 13 for how to decode a volleyball move according to UF player Kristy Jaeckel. 
DIANA LOPEZ
Avenue Writer
He was voted No. 1 disc jockey in the world, 
and on Monday, Tiesto will hit up Gainesville 
in a performance at the Alachua County Fair -
grounds from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m.
His Club Life College Invasion tour, pre-
sented by DBI productions, Insomniac, Com-mittee Ent. and G-Spot Productions, will fea-ture Tiesto spinning continuous electronic dance beats.
Tiesto will perform a three-hour set, the 
longest set of all his tour dates.
The DJ is reinventing the electronic dance 
scene by blending electronic trance music with club vibes, setting the standard for upcoming DJs. 
According to tiestoblog.com, his perfor -
mance for more than 25,000 people in Arn-hem’s Gelredome in ‘03 made him the first DJ to hold a solo concert in a stadium, and Tiesto is the first DJ to play live on an Olympic stage with his performance for the opening ceremo-ny for the 2004 Summer Olympics in Greece.
Tiesto’s new single, “Maximal Crazy,” was 
released on iTunes Tuesday through his new record label Musical Freedom.
According to Dave Berg, producer of the 
event with DBI Productions, the tour will in-corporate a $4 million high-definition video wall to accompany Tiesto’s club theme. 
“Think of it as a major rock concert,” Berg 
said.
The outdoor event is open for fans of all 
ages. There will be entertainment provided by Midway , with rock climbing, bungee jumping and more. There will also be fireworks, food stands and a full bar at the event.
Tickets are available online at vor.us/523. 
Regular tickets are $35; VIP tickets are $76.
For more information on the Club Life Col-lege Invasion tour, visit tiestouniversity.com.
The Avenue got the chance to get to know 
Tiesto a little better, so take a peek at what the world’s No. 1 DJ had to say .  
What prompted this Club Life College In-
vasion tour?
 “The college fans; they have reached out 
heavily on my social networks asking me to come play at their schools, so here I come! How could I disappoint them?!“
Have you noticed any differences in your 
concerts between the U.S. and other coun-tries? 
 “The U.S. fans are more open to different 
genres of dance music being played together, while countries around the rest of the world are still more traditional and have a stronger preference to what style of dance music they 
like.”
Do you have a prefer -
ence between big concert venues or small ones?  
“I don’t, to be honest; I 
love (to) see the huge crowds going crazy , but there is 
something amazing about watching a smaller crowd go just as crazy in a more intimate set-ting. “
“Maximal Crazy” has just been released 
through Musical Freedom. T ell us about it. 
“It’s one of my favorite songs to play right 
now — the crowds go nuts for it! It has an amazing energy, and it turns the party up a notch at my shows.“
Where did the name “Musical Freedom” 
come from? “Musical Freedom comes from my desire 
to put out whatever music I believe in. The theory behind the label is celebrate creativity and diversity.“
In the past, you usually joined with a com-
pany, like Coca-Cola or Armani Exchange, to get music to your listeners. Are you collabo-rating with any other companies now to get your music out in different ways? 
“Working with brands is becoming a new 
distribution model. I really like the reach and creativity they offer. I recently worked with Heineken and SanDisk and am doing some things with a few other great partners in the near future.“
You’ve done charity work in the past with 
Schools4Life. Will you be performing for any charities in the near future?
“I’d definitely love to in the near future. 
The dance4life program that I am an ambas-sador for has done an amazing job educating young people about HIV and AIDS, and we look for every opportunity to work hand-in-hand to reach my fans through my music and shows. 
What kind of music do you listen to your -
self? 
“I listen to a lot of different types of music 
these days. Recently, I’ve been listening to ev-erything from Bassjackers and Sandro Silva to Bon Iver and The Naked and Famous.”
As a child, what did you first want to be-
come?  
“I always wanted to do something with 
music. I would always love playing music for my family and friends and watch them enjoy it, and I found the perfect profession to be able to keep doing just that.”
How does your inspiration for tracks 
come to you?  
“I find inspiration from everything around 
me. It can come from other music or from the different places that I travel to, but it can also come from movies, art or even other people.”
Do you have any items that you simply 
cannot travel without? 
“My iPhone!”
If you were to go into a recording studio 
filled with instruments, which instrument 
would you pick up first? 
“Definitely the piano, though I’d struggle 
to pick it up of course!”
What do you consider to be one of your 
greatest accomplishments? 
“Musically , playing at the Olympics has to 
be pretty high up there, along with Ipanema Beach, but it’s also meant a huge amount to me to use my position to work with charities and spread their message.”
Stephanie Pistel / Alligator
Tiesto will bring his Club Life College Invasion Tour to the Alachua County Fairgrounds 
Sept. 26.
Stephanie Pistel / Alligator 
The DJ will perform a three-hour set, the longest set of all his tour dates.
DJ Tiesto brings Club Life College Invasion tour  to Gainesville    
  ALYSSA HOLCOMB
 Avenue Writer 
  A folding table, two guitars, an 
open balcony and a mashed heap 
of metal for a holiday “tree” are all that’s needed to set the stage for “Rent,” the rock-opera phenome-non that has become one of Broad-way’s best-known musicals.
  The Gainesville Community 
Playhouse’s production, which runs Sept. 23 through Oct. 16, keeps the classic mantra of “No day but today” alive and vibrant through both the music and the movement.
  “That’s the whole theme of the 
entire show,” said Erin Kleim, the 
show’s director. “‘Forget regret, or life is yours to miss.’ If you real-ly stop and think about that, it ac-tually gets you 
more and more — the more you listen to it.”
  The show, loosely based on 
the Puccini opera “La Boheme,” focuses on the lives of eight New York City residents, ranging from a struggling ﬁ  lmmaker to a cross-dressing street percussionist. Rid-dled with disease, romance and reality, the group members live “la vie boheme,” the bohemian life, in efforts to fulﬁ  ll their dreams of liv-ing to the fullest extent.
  “It takes a lot of life experience 
(that) has to be drawn from that,” said Phil Young, who plays frus-trated musician Roger Davis. 
  Young attended a musical the-
ater school and served in the mili-tary before returning to the stage in “Rent.” 
  While the playhouse has been 
noted for putting on more “classic” musicals, it’s shows like “Rent” that motivate those onstage and offstage to open doors for more modern performances in the fu-ture.
  “The GCP is really supportive. 
We’re in a very understanding, lib-eral town, and I feel like they’re go-ing to be open for us to do ‘Rent,’” Young said. “It’s an abstract show. It’s not your campy ‘40s musical.”
  Kleim said you can’t deny “Rent” is a “very real show.” 
  “We have a smaller community 
here. This theater itself has never, ever done a show like this,” Kleim said. “But I have faith that enough people love the show (and) that they will come out and see this.” 
  Audiences are cautioned that 
there are adult themes and lan-guage in the show, so it is suitable for mature audiences and not rec-ommended for young children. Tickets are $16 for regular admis-sion and $10 for students with IDs only on the day of the show. Regular admission tickets can be purchased through the box ofﬁ  ce, 352-376-4949, or online at gcplay-house.org. 10, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
 Courtesy to the Alligator
  In “Rent,” characters Roger (left, Phil Young) and Mark (right, Peter 
Romberg) both create art as a musician and a ﬁ  lmmaker in efforts to live each day as if it were their last. 
 “Rent” takes stage at local playhouse  
Maegan Dennis and Kate Feldman / Alligator StaffThe show opens on Sept. 23  
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
Aryanna Harrell / Alligator 
Only a few items from the Missoni for Target re-
main at the 3970 SW Archer Rd. location.  
ARYANNA HARRELL
Avenue Writer
Those looking to find designer label 
Missoni-inspired, eclectic, zig-zag pat-
terns at Target may be disappointed to see nearly empty shelves and clothing racks only days after the release.  
Although the popularity and success 
of the line is apparent, Gainesville’s lo-cal Target, located at 3970 SW Archer Road, will not be replenishing its sup-ply of the Missoni for Target collection, staff said of as of last week.
The local Target sold out most of the 
Missoni for Target collection within the first days of its arrival, according to Target sitting room associate Kristin. 
Missoni for Target is a 400-piece col-
lection designed by Italian, luxury-de-signer Missoni exclusively for Target. The line features beauty accessories, apparel for men, women and children, stationary items, luggage, bikes, and home and office furnishings, all rang-ing from $2.99 to $599.99. 
The collection was supposed to be 
featured in Target stores and online from Sept. 13 through Oct. 22, but has already sold out at many of its 1,700 stores around the country, according to the Associated Press. 
The official Target website, Target.
com, crashed due to excessive traffic from savvy shoppers trying to pur -
chase the unusually low-priced design-er pieces. 
Although the Target on Archer Road 
did not have any lines or shopping mobs, the items went much quicker than employees anticipated. 
“I was pretty shocked at how fast 
the items went,” Kristin said. “I’ve nev-er seen any designer sell out quite this fast. This one is by far the most popular that I have ever seen.”
In the past, Target has featured simi-
lar designer-collaborative collections, such as McQ by Alexander McQueen and William Rast by Justin Timberlake and Trace Ayala. None of the lines, thus far, has been quite as monumental.
“I think Missoni really stuck to their 
design,” said 21-year-old Target shop-per Annie Quintana. “Past collections you could tell were made for Target. Missoni did a good job of creating a line that was affordable, while main-taining authenticity.”
Quintana was sent by family and 
friends to purchase items already sold out in their hometown of Miami. 
She arrived to Target one day after 
the release and was shocked to see al-most everything cleared out, specifi-cally a pair of rain boots she had her eyes on. 
Home and bath merchandise were 
the first things to go, according to Tar -
get manager Sandra. There are still a few items left, but the majority of the collection is gone.
Those on a mission for Missoni can 
check eBay to purchase items from the collection. There are currently almost 30,000 listings under “Missoni for Tar -
get” on the site. 
Remaining Missoni items are scarcefashion
“I’ve never seen any designer 
sell out quite this fast. This one 
is by far the most popular that I 
have ever seen.”
Kristin
Target sitting room associateKIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer 
UF will kick off its first pro-
duction of the season Friday 
night with “You Can’t Take It With You,” a feel-good comedy about the wacky antics of the Sycamore family . 
The Sycamores are true, free, 
fun and loving, said Filipe Valle Costa, an MFA theater student who plays Grandpa Martin Van-derhof. 
Grandpa is the pillar of the 
family. He takes care of every-one. He’s a very loving person, and is at the end of his life with no regrets, Costa said. 
“It’s wonderful to play the 
character,” he said. “He’s 75 years old and saying, ‘Don’t worry , just do what you love to do and everything else will fall into place.’ In so many ways I feel like the character is speak-ing to me.”
 Grandpa is the soul of the 
family , but Penny is the heart, said Stephanie Lynge, a theater graduate student who plays Penny Sycamore, a 50-year-old mother and a daughter of Grandpa.
As long as everyone else 
is happy , Penny is happy , she said.
Lynge found it technically 
difficult to get the quick pace of the lines right and to keep her positivity as high as her charac-ter demands but enjoys playing the young-spirited role. 
“[Penny] finds the joy in all 
the little things in life,” she said. The Sycamores revel in their 
own weirdness, said Charlie Mitchell, UF professor and direc-tor of the production.  They exist in a total state of acceptance, so every strange thing that hap-pens in the family is OK. 
The main conflict comes from 
Alice, Penny’s daughter, being in love with Tony Kirby , a man from a wealthy Wall Street fam-ily. The families meet each oth-er, and the Kirbys come on the wrong night. Instead of hiding the weird things the Sycamores do, like badly dancing around the house and playing the xylo-phone, they see it all.
“It’s a sweet story , “ Mitchell 
said. “It’s really about ‘Can these two families come together?’ This uptight Wall Street family and this house of free spirits.” 
Casting for the production 
of the play by Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman was done by the first Friday of the semes-ter, and rehearsals began that evening.
 For the rest of this story, go to 
alligator.org/the_avenue. 12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
 $49.99 at Target
 Oven comes with baking pan, cupcake pan, pan pusher, 
paper cupcake wraps, select mixes and instructions/recipe booklet Cook time is about 15 minutes
 Mixes include:
Red velvet cupcakes  Strawberry cake
Cheese pizza   Chocolate chip cookies
Dessert dippers   Pink sugar cookies
Devil’s food cake  Party pretzel dippersAn old favorite has gotten a 
modern makeover. 
When the Easy-Bake Oven was 
first marketed in 1963, it resembled 
a conventional oven that allowed little girls to work alongside their mothers in the kitchen. Today, the oven is back without a lightbulb and with a trendier menu.
Hasbro voluntarily recalled the oven in 
2007 after multiple reports of burns, but it has adapted the product to reduce previous dangers. 
The redesigned oven temperature reaches 
about 375 degrees, and the outside remains only warm to the touch.
And the best part? Cooking dinner is just so 
much more fun in a baby oven.
Maegan Dennis and Kate Feldman / Alligator StaffEasy-Bake Oven gets new 
design, heating element
Shari Thompson / Alligator 
Grandpa (Costa) receives a kiss from his lucky granddaughter 
Alice (Sorenson) in “You Can’t Take It With You.”
UF opens season with comedytheater 
 He Says…  She Says… Liz and Brendan met 
while attending high school 
in the Tampa Bay area.  She was a sophomore; he was a senior.  Caught in a predica-ment that challenges many young couples, the two had to decide whether Brendan’s relocation to Philadelphia for college would end their seven-month relationship. 
They decided to make it 
work.  Interestingly, when it was her time to select a college, Liz opted out of moving to her boyfriend’s city.  Fast-forward a few years to find Liz and Bren-dan in their mid-20s — still together.  Both are upper-level medical and graduate students at UF, and they have been happily married for almost a year.
One has to wonder, is 
the case of Liz and Bren-dan a fluke, or could long-distance be the key to a suc-cessful relationship?He Said, She Said: Is it worth it to do long-distance? 
Long-distance can be a 
bitch. No matter how secure you think you 
are, not seeing your partner face-to-face can be unbear -
able. And the temptations of college life don’t help.
Before you even begin a 
long-distance relationship, you have to know you’ll be able to handle it. It requires patience, understanding and an infinite amount of trust. If you don’t complete-ly trust your companion, it’s not going to work.
But don’t let me make it 
sound all doom and gloom. My girlfriend and I are do-ing the long-distance thing, and it’s going great. So for all my fellow long-distance couples out there, I have a couple tips to help you close the gap.
It is a fact that agreeing 
to do long-distance with your partner is a sign that you are in a serious rela-tionship. The key is to keep this strong through the days, weeks or months that you’re apart. If you ever be-gin to doubt your bond, re-member why you are doing this in the first place.  Your partner must be pretty awe-some if you are willing to be completely faithful to them yet hardly ever see them.
Distance magnifies 
every situation, good and bad. The trick is keeping the nega-tivity to a minimum by not sweating the small stuff. Something you wouldn’t regu-larly notice in-person can be a nagging issue through phone calls or texts. If you find yourself getting feisty, ask yourself: Will a  bitter battle really accomplish all that much in the end? If you don’t have a concrete reason for picking a fight, don’t do it. Frequent little fights are what chip away at a perfect-ly good relationship.
— JACOB ROMOSER There’s something to be said for 
a couple that can connect with-out physically being together.  
As one who has never been in a tra-ditional long-distance relationship, I have to take an indeterminate albeit safe position on the matter: The suc-cess of a long-distance relationship boils down to the character, expecta-
tions and wants of the individu-als involved.    
Let’s start this discussion with 
a logical exercise.  If one were to assume long-distance relation-ships to be eventual failures based on the lack of palpable contact, then the opposite assumption 
suggests relationships that share the same locale are destined to work.  Clear -
ly, this is flawed.
In order to transition my general 
speculation into a more discerning opin-ion, I decided to compile feedback from a variety of people who are, have been or are considering long-distance ro-mance. The reactions I received were all over the map. In some cases, geographic separation was ammunition for anxiety , while for others, space likened a savior, a blessing that enabled more time for individual reflection and growth while simultaneously allowing the benefits of relationship gratification.  
For example, let’s take the couple 
from this week’s intro: Liz and Brendan. When asked to look back and decipher the positives that came from being in a long-distance relationship, Liz attribut-ed some of her achievements to having ample alone time.  
“Being long-distance almost made it 
easier for me to accomplish what I need-ed to do to finish high school and pre-pare for college,” she said. “Even in col-lege, not having Brendan always around made it easier for me to get my work done. I think it also made us appreciate the time we had together even more.”
But one also has to take into account 
the chemistry that naturally exists be-tween those in the relationship.  Even Liz said, “If it’s meant to be, it will be. Take your partner’s needs into account, but don’t compromise yourself.”  
I can’t help but ask, how is this obser -
vation any different from those who see their partner on a daily basis?
Although few things contend the ful-
fillment of spooning your companion, perhaps an empty bed and little longing on occasion could do every relationship some good.
— KAY BEA THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 13
 David Carr / Alligator   
  UF volleyball player Kristy Jaeckel said this move is used to 
distract the other team.   
  ALYSSA HOLCOMB
 Avenue Writer 
 
  Volleyball is an action-packed 
sport full of hits, sets and spikes. Yet for those less knowledgeable of the game, things can get confusing. 
But all it takes is some simple 
set-ups, key vocabulary and a little demonstration to make the court-side match easily understandable to those in the stands.
  One particular play used in the 
game is a “go eight-two,” which is used to not only distract the other team but to isolate a player in order to get a ball.
  UF outside hitter Kristy Jaeckel 
compared the play to another com-mon sports move.
  “It’s almost like a basketball 
lay-up,” Jaeckel said. “We use it in pretty much any game. It gives us different angles to hit and a differ-ent look for them.”  The play consists of four main 
players. The outside hitter goes to the left side of the court and passes it to the setter. 
Meanwhile, the middle hitter 
sets the ball after she goes behind the setter. 
When the right side hitter transi-
tions to the middle, the other team gets distracted, and the middle hit-ter spikes the ball.
  “A good time to use it would be 
in transition or when the ball is in play,” Jaeckel said.
  Plays like these allow the team to effectively execute moves that allow them to go for the kill or get the ball to the floor, resulting in a point.
  “A big thing is communication,” 
Jaeckel said. “It’s the hitters that are calling the sets that they want.”
  See the Gators use this move 
against Kentucky tomorrow night at 7 in the O’Connell Center.  
Kristy Jaeckel is a senior outside 
hitter for the UF volleyball team.
 How to “go eight-two” with Kristy Jaeckel
Volleyball player explains move
“It’s almost like a basket-
ball lay-up. We use it in pretty 
much any game. It gives us 
different angles to hit and a 
different look for them.”
Kristy Jaeckel
UF outside hitterThe low-down 
When to use it:
-In transition
The set up:
-Four players-Outside hitter goes to the left side of the court-The ball is passed to the setter-Middle hitter sets the ball after go-ing behind the setter-Right side hitter transitions to the middle and spikes the ball
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
$379 3/3 All-Inclusive
$349 4/4 All-Inclusive
VISA Gift Cards Available
Call us today at 352-336-3838!
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
1BR/1BA available in 4/4 SW condo
$375/mo. Close to everything, bus line.
All utilities included. Furnished.Call Nalini at (352) 514-3398           10-14-11-2-1
7 BLOCKS TO CAMPUS
2BR/1BA duplex. New kitchen, W/D incl. Quiet area. Available now. $625/mo incl wa-ter. Call 352-871-6413   9-30-11-10-1
SIGN & DESIGN OPEN HOUSE!
Take a tour Oct 7th from 12-6
*Food*Prizes*Music*Specials
Rates $339 and up $0 app.
Now signing! 352.379.9300
10-7-11-12-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREEFrederick GardensCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
     1,2,3,BR’s – Welcome Home!
·         HUGE floorplans! * H20/Sewer Incl!·         W/D Avail! * Pets Loved!·         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis·        376-2507 * BivensCove.com 12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW - ONLY A FEW LEFT!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
9-30-11-29-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-23-11-29-2
Roommates a Hassle?
Move into your own downtown apt!www.ArlingtonSquare.orgStudios and 1Bdrms starting at $599!Check availability now! 338-000212-7-11-74-2
3BR, 2BA, Condo Unit, Ground Floor, Kitchen 
& living area; Swimming pool & tennis courts; The Sparrow; $700.00 per month.Call Cristen at 352-514-6222    10-17-11-40-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House
Historic spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1800/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    10-10-11-35-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. 
Shady lot, laundry room. From $290 to $400/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1st month half price! Vacant lots alsoavailable. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-588710-31-46-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
Spacious 3br/2ba/2cg home in Blues Creek, 
huge Mbr/ba w/walk-in closet,cent ac/heat w/sec sys,internet hookup, all appls, W/D, $1200/mo, 7953 NW 48 way, call 954-805-7827, 561-912-6223, billyo110708@att.net  9-30-11-18-2
SPACIOUS TOWNHOME with backyard,
2BR/1.5BA
off Archer Road near UF.
Contact 386-328-6229.
e-mail moritae@yahoo.com $529/month
9-29-11-15-2GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman/Shands area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Was $2400 re-duced to $1780 OBO. 352-665-8166 lv msg.   9-27-11-10-2
1BR/1BA Apts, side-by-side. Large screened-
in porch, W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499/each. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #2 & 3 Please call 352-371-3473    10-5-11-15-2
Peaceful living, large floorplans, closets 
galore, FREE CABLE, must see upgrades 1/1 from $550 2/2 from $595352-372-9913                          10-5-11-14-2
4 Bedroom/3 Bath. Walk to Class!
Pool. 2 Living Rooms. Game Room. Lots of 
Parking. Move-in date is Jan. 1. Call John 
@ 561-866-8234 for further info.
9-23-5-2
OLD FLORIDA STYLE COTTAGE.
Central h/a, laundry with w/d, large screened
porch. Perfect for a grad student or profes-
sional. Walk to UF. 2703 NW 2nd ave.
$795 mo. www.flalcam.com 352-332-5836
9-30-11-10-2
● 2BR2BA HOUSE, w/carport, W/D hk-ups. 
Pet ok. $750/mo● 1BR/1BA APT Pet ok. $475/mo.Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644    10-14-11-20-2
ATTN: UF and Shands Employees 
2 BR 1 Bath homes in Gainesville. 
Spacious fenced-in yards, bring your pets! 
Brand new energy upgrades. $570-$660/mo
Near 6th St. on 39th Ave. 336-9477   
10-17-25-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    9-28-11-77-2
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMESTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Big house/all amenities/party rooms, near 
midtown and law school. Rooms $350/mo. John 373-5630 (Scipub) or jbhatl@aol.com.    9-27-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
●BED SET TWIN $49
●FULL $69●QUEEN $89●KING $99352-376-0953 4390 SW 20TH AVE   10-6-11-30-6
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Here at Techmodo we give CASH for your 
electronics! We also repair smartphones, gaming systems, computers and ipods! (352) 872-5881 6450 SW Archer Rd (Next to Beef O Bradys)   9-26-5-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
9-30-11-21-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
Jeep Wrangler Sahara
4 doors, black, hard top, new 33" Toyo tires, and manual 6 speed. $18,000, call 352-234-0145.   9-23-11-4-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      9-22-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfranchis.cfcoxmail.com
$$ CASH PAID, UP TO $500 $$
FOR JUNK CARS & TRUCKS
RUNNING OR NOT, ANY CONDITION
SAME DAY PICK UP. FREE TOWING
NO TITLE NEEDED. CALL 352-771-6191
 10-11-11-30-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The Independent Florida Alligator
IT Department
Is now accepting applications for a
STUDENT  INTERN
If you are a student able to work 4-10 hours
per week this fall and are eager to gain
valuable hands-on experience in desktop
support and network infrastructure, then stop
by the Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F,
9am-4pm to fill out an application.
Please include available work schedule,
references, and resume.
EEO/AA.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   10-5-11-30-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    9-30-11-34-14Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Centerplate Part-Time Jobs!
● Event Supervisors● Warehouse Runners● CashiersApply in person at Ben Hill Griffin StadiumMonday-Friday 8:00 AM to 4:00 PMwww.centerplate.eventbrite.com
(352) 692-6244
                      9-23-11-17-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
Florida Football Drink Seller!
Tremendous Cash in a Short Time!Yes - it is a work out!Apply in person at Concessions OfficeGate 18 BHG Stadium       9-23-11-17-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, 
Must be Articulate and Reliable371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G9-30-21-14
MARTIAL ARTS INSTRUCTOR WANTED!
For growing tkd school in Gainesville.Friendly, energetic person.Experience preferred.Leave message at (352)375-0700.     9-23-11-14-14
 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011  § ALLIGATOR, 17
If you are age 18-30 with a sedentary to mod-
erately active lifestyle, Dr. Thomas Buford is conducting a study to investigate the poten-tial role of blood flow in the loss of muscle as we age. Participation in the study will require 5 visits to the clinical lab, medical history, blood and muscle tissue sample, physical and cognitive testing, MRI. Compensation of up to $250 in gift cards. Call the UF Institute on Aging, 352-273-5919.    9-22-11-10-14
ACT Coordinator
Immediate full time or part time opening for a person with SAT/ACT tutoring background to help develop a new program at Gleim Publications. Great opportunity a "go getter". Must have strong written and verbal skills and a good attention to detail. Please apply online at http://www.gleim.com/employment    9-23-11-10-14.
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE
NOW HIRINGGreat working environment. PT/FT positions available. Apply in person @ 2906 NW 13Tth St. 352-372-1226 sandysresale.com    9-26-11-10-14ATTENTION SEDENTARY ADULTS (50+)!!
Need participants in a UF study assessing the accuracy of an advanced pedometer. $$$ provided!!! If interested, call 336-406-3706 or email FitBit10000@gmail.com    9-23-8-14
LAW CLERK-P/T. Law student, creative 
problem solver. Green conscious, book lover, passion for writing/knowledge/fitness/MMA. 626 NE 1st St, 32601. Send resume & writing sample to paulsrothstein@gmail.com    9-27-11-10-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   10-12-20-14
Native French speaker to babysit 5 y/o boy 
3-5 hrs/wk. $20/hr cash.Prefer female, but will consider male apps. Flexible hrs to accommodate your schedule. 352-328-6828                9-23-11-6-14 
GARDENING
& exterior landscape work, 4-6 hours/week, $10/hour, contact rlevy@mmparrish.comor call Roz, 870-9100.                   9-22-5-14Female Nanny/ Housekeeper needed in 
Gainesville. Work week is M-F, hours may 
vary to care for one child (9yrs) & our home. If needed, there is a live in option for the right candidate. Contact Paula (352) 263-8962. 9-29-11-10-14
 Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481   9-30-11-10-14
Printroom, Inc. is looking for outgoing and 
motivated Fan Photographers to capture im-ages at the Gators' home games this football season. No exp. required. You must be avail-able for ALL home games. Top performers make between $15-$20/hour. For more info and to apply, please visit: www.facebook.com/Printroom.   9-26-11-5-14
The Smartphone Club needs data entry 
workers to help update our membership list. Must be able to work at home online with-out any supervision. Guaranteed pay for Guaranteed work.www.thesmartphoneclub.com/Colleges/FL    9-27-11-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
BANNERS - SIGNS - VEHICLE WRAPS
PLAQUES - AWARDS - FULL COLOR
- GIANT PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS -
Top Quality - Fast Service - Low Prices
SignMasters - signpower.com - 335-7000
9-30-59-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    10-28-74 15
Horse boarding, $350/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome    9-30-11-38-15. 
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a pulic meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: October 3, 2011 at 5:00 pmPLACE;  Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE;  Regular Business Meeting of 
the MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352-955-2200, visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Persons who require special accommoda-tions under the Americans With Disabilites Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352-955-2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     9-22-1-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
KANAPAHA
BOTANICAL GARDENS
HALF OFF WITH GATOR ONE CARD 
DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER.
Come and enjoy our beautiful gardens!
9-30-20-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM... A boutique, 
KEY WEST 1970's style. We got it all for you, from all the world, imports you can believe in. Clothes, Gifts, Art, Books, Music, Plants... Hwy 441S.... 15 min that could change you.   10-26-31-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) $99 
and Basic Life Support (BLS)$35. Classes run continuously to fit your schedule. American Heart Association Card issued. Call Cardiac One at 352-494-4217.    10-14-11-30-15
EXPERIENCED GED & ESOL TEACHER.
Will help with research papers, writing & speaking. 30 years experience. Please call 352-519-5242 or 954-605-1676    9-23-11-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   10-19-11-100-16
ALL YOUR CPR AND FIRST AID NEEDS
FLORIDA HEARTSAVERwww.floridaheartsaver.org 575-0119                        9-30-28-16
Hypknow Inc.
Free Consultation
Lose Weight*Stop Smoking*Live Pain Free
352-875-6451 www.alansupplee.com
Dr. Alan Paul Supplee
9-23-11-5-16
Get A Massage!
Proven to help relaxation, regain men-tal focus and improve test performance! Call Garrett Blanton, L.M.T. MA#55181 @ Advanced Massage Call 328-2919/377-6008.   9-30-11-5-16
$365,000+ Medical Insurance Coverage
Any Doctor, Any Hospital, No Deductible
Limited Health Questions, Apply Online
$6 a day...or LESS!
SixDollarHealthPlan.com
9-28-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
THE Mailbag
We’re back at it again with 
another edition of The Mailbag. We don’t want 
to delay you from the awesome submissions this week, so let’s get right to it.
@zachmoller: Y ou have to choose 
one player from UK to start for the Gators. Who?
C’mon, Zach, you have to hit us 
with harder questions than that one. The answer is simple: La’Rod King, Kentucky’s leading receiver. King ranks 64th in the nation in receiving yards per game, and has 226 yards and three scores on 14 receptions this season — that’s twice as many as Florida’s top wide receiver, De-onte Thompson. 
King was solid last year as a 
sophomore, too. He had more touch-downs (five) than any of the Gators’ options in the passing game, and would have been second in recep-tions, just two behind Thompson.
@dolfan0516: What is Tyler 
Jett’s Twitter handle?
This is a topic of much heated 
debate. Well, not very heated, but it has caused quite a confusion in the Twittersphere. Tyler Jett (the football writer and columnist) can be found on Twitter at @Tyler__Jett. Notice the double-underscore in the name. 
There’s another Tyler Jett out 
there, one who isn’t a student at UF. He happened to claim the handle @Tyler_Jett — with just a single underscore, before our Tyler had the opportunity to do so. Plenty of people have tweeted at this Tyler Jett in attempts to get a hold of our Tyler, including Gators linebacker Dee Finley.
It happens, but now that you 
know the difference, don’t let the mistake happen again — we’re starting to feel bad for the other Ty-ler and all the inadvertent tweets he is receiving.
@bourbonmeyer: Can someone 
please confirm for us all... Is it Andre DEE-Bose or DOO-Bose?? #knowl-
edgeforlife
Like Tyler’s Twitter handle, this 
one is up for debate, too. Coach Will Muschamp, to the best of our knowl-edge, has always referred to No. 4 as Andre DOO-bose. However, we believe the proper pronunciation is neither DEE-bose nor DOO-bose, but rather Duh-bose. 
But, like Muschamp, we aren’t going to say the name right, either. Instead, we think Andre DeBOOM has a better ring to it after the wide receiver de-cleated Tennessee’s Jacques Smith. Yeah, we’re sure you all remember watching the gener -
ously listed 5-foot-11, 191-pounder using the hit stick on the V ols’ 6-foot-2, 255-pound defensive line-man on replay in The Swamp.
@AlligatorArmy: Which Gators 
football player would be the best Alligator writer? Vice versa? Which Gators sport is likeliest to win a nat’l title?
First off, props for squeezing 
three questions into 140 characters. That takes talent. 
Now, the best player for the rig-
orous and soul-sucking job of Alli-gator writer is a tough call. It may very well be Dan Wenger. Not only is he an intelligent guy who plain gets it, but Wenger has the all-im-portant ability to criticize himself — an important attribute in any writer worth his or her salt. 
As for the most likely to make the 
team as a walk-on from the Alliga-tor staff, first we must weigh our op-tions. Matt Watts is flat out too old, and we’re pretty sure his eligibility ran out in 2002. Greg Luca has the smarts to compete, but he’s going to have to hit the weight room pretty hard to hold his own out there. Tom Green has the girth to hold the point of attack, but there are concerns about his conditioning. Not to make this an all-Tyler Jett edition of The Mailbag, but he has what it takes. Jett played in high school, and he’s really tall, so there’s that. Plus, his intangibles are off the charts.
And...we’re going to go with la-
crosse. Yeah, bet you didn’t expect that one. 
@miggiesmalls: Will Florida 
ever play an out-of-state, non-con-ference road game in the future?
Not likely. There isn’t any incen-
tive for the Gators to travel outside of Florida for that type of matchup. Their schedule is plenty difficult playing in the SEC, and the an-nual showdown with Florida State provides an extremely solid and dependable top-tier (usually) non-conference opponent. 
Even then, Florida could theo-
retically do away with the ‘Noles game and still be fine. The SEC Championship Game is essentially a play-in for the national title. Un-til the landscape of college football changes dramatically, and the SEC is no longer the king of the hill, then Florida’s schedule will likely stay very similar.
@PhilipGaryTalks: I’m still 
hoping for a “Pump and Go”...any chance?
Sorry , Philip, but the days of 
Danny Wuerffel, Rex Grossman, and even Chris Leak and Tim Tebow, are long gone. The Gators’ best chance to get the ball more than 20 yards downfield the past two seasons has been on flea-flickers. 
Before the 83-yard catch-and-run 
to Chris Rainey against Tennessee, two of John Brantley’s longest pass-es came on trick plays — and both were lucky completions. Quinton Dunbar had to come back almost 10 yards to catch Brantley’s flea-flicker heave against UAB, and Rainey had to do the same on a similar play against Vanderbilt last year. 
Not only do the Gators not have 
the talent at receiver to beat people vertically, we’re not sure
 certain 
Brantley can’t throw it accurately. 
Until proven otherwise, keep pin-ning your hopes on Rainey and Jeff Demps — they won’t let you down. 
Submit questions for next 
week’s mailbag on Twitter: @alli-gatorSportsAndre DeBOOM, role reversals and flea-flickers galore
brett le blanc / alligator Staff
Maggie Rodgers never played on defense before coming to Florida, but the sophomore is 
making the switch in order to see more playing time. 
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
It is a significant accomplishment for 
a soccer player to surpass her minute 
total from the previous season in less than seven games. 
Maggie Rodgers not only accom-
plished this feat, but did so while see-ing time at a position she had never played before.
As a four-year starter for Gulf Breeze 
High School, Rodgers was an all-coun-ty selection each year as a forward, and a Class 4A All-State first-team member and honorable mention selection in 2009.
As a freshman last season, Rodgers 
appeared in 17 of the Gators’ games, but never for more than 44 minutes. 
“Coming to college, it was definitely 
a change,” Rodgers said.  “Everyone was you.  Everyone came from high school where they were the big stars in their hometown, and it gets a little more competitive, and that was some-thing I was not used to back home.”
According to Gators associate head 
coach Victor Campbell, heading into this season, Rodgers was in a position where she would have to wait another year before seeing significant time at forward, so he approached her about switching to outside back.
“At first I told him, ‘I don’t want to 
do it’,” Rodgers said.
She eventually changed her mind, 
and started playing defense in Summer B practices and during the preseason. She told Campbell she trusted him if he thought the switch was best for her.
Campbell said Rodgers possesses several attributes of an elite outside back, including good athleticism, the ability to get up and down the field and strong technical skills.
In Florida’s 7-2 win against Kansas 
on Sunday, Rodgers recorded her first two points of the season, both of which were assists on crosses to forward Tah-nai Annis.
Opportunities such as those will not 
be uncommon with Rodgers’ ability, according to Campbell.
“Because the other team’s defenses 
are set in locking down our midfielders and forwards there’s rarely any track-ing on the outside backs, “ he said.
Thus, having a player with ball skills 
such as Rodgers’ can help the Gators’ attack when the defense fails to pick her up.
“The way I’ve scored a lot of my 
goals in the past is from crosses and getting balls served in from our outside 
backs,” Annis said. 
“It benefits us if we are getting more 
crosses off during games.  It’s where we’ve generated a lot of offense in the past.”
Rodgers said she has grown to like 
her new position better than forward because it allows her to play the game at a slower pace and stay focused on her responsibilities.
Campbell said Rodgers has much 
more to learn about the position, but if she keeps up her current pace, she could be special.
“If she really wants to do it,” he said, 
“she has a good future here as an out-side back.”Rodgers seeing increased role after switching to defense 
UF SoccerSlaughter anytime somebody asked 
about offensive problems.
(In 2009): Why isn’t the offense as 
productive as it was in 2008?: “There’s a reason we’re 9-0. We didn’t just fall off the pickle boat.”
Do you think Mike Pouncey played 
better at guard than at center?: “You won’t want to play against him; leave it there.”
Why is John Brantley running the 
option?: “In the option game with John Brantley, we’re averaging 5 yards a carry. You need to know that. That’s a fact.”
No. When he was asked that ques-
tion, Florida was averaging 3.8 yards on runs by Brantley. Pouncey did struggle from time to time at center. And Florida’s 2009 offense did, at times, look like it had fallen off the pickle boat, assuming that’s a bad thing.
Weis, meanwhile, has not been 
afraid to criticize his offense when it’s experiencing problems. In fact, he might be a little too critical. But that is way better than the Addazio reign.
Perhaps Addazio didn’t have a 
choice. Perhaps he would have taken even more heat if he admitted fail-ure — lord knows it was tough to be an Addazio living in Gainesville last year. 
Weis doesn’t have those problems. 
He has already proven himself at the highest level. You want to question whether he knows what he’s doing? Pay attention to which one of his four Super Bowl rings he is wearing while you ask.
And while you’re hanging around, 
listen for a few self-criticisms. It should make you smile.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.
org.“His production and what he’s done for our 
football team, running, catching and on spe-
cial teams and in return and blocking kicks, you’re talking about value to a football team,” Muschamp said. “But again, it’s a long season and we need to continue to play consistently well at his position.” 
Rainey leads the team in rushing yards 
(306) and receiving yards (214) and already has five touchdowns. 
Floyd moving around: After playing snaps 
at defensive end in his first game of the sea-son, defensive tackle Sharrif Floyd said rush-ing from the edge was harder than it looks. 
He won’t be on the outside full time, as 
Quinn said Floyd will move around on the line depending on the opponent. But Quinn said he isn’t concerned with Floyd’s ability at end because the coaching staff just started to experiment with him playing outside during training camp.
“He hasn’t done it as much,” Quinn said. 
“He’s getting more comfortable with it; it’s just taken him some reps to do it.”
Reed still in doubt: Tight end Jordan Reed 
did not play against Tennessee with what was initially reported as a hamstring injury. 
Reed has improved and is reportedly no 
longer in need of the crutches he used to get to the bench before last Saturday’s game, but his status for the game at Kentucky is uncertain. 
“Well, we still have a shot,” Muschamp 
said. “He’s been moving around a little bit, and again, he’s a little gimpy here and there, but who knows. We’ve got a lot of time from here until Saturday.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org.Muschamp says 
Rainey deserves Heisman talk THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 19
AP Photo
UK coach Joker Phillips said the Gators employ an effective strategy 
called the “mug and trail,” leading to success blocking punts.
Phillips: Can’t 
miss assignments
had a punt blocked. It’s hard to do because the 
change in momentum and it’s obviously easy to score off of. The momentum of the game certain-ly can flip pretty quickly.”
Phillips described Florida’s maneuver on 
block attempts as a “mug and trail,” where a defender occupies a lineman with his hands and pulls him to open up a hole for a speedier defensive player to gun through and get to the punter.
“Everybody does it,” Phillips said. “We try 
to do it also. [There’s] nothing illegal about it ... they do a great job of it.”
To counteract UF’s tendency to block punts, 
Phillips said Kentucky needs to focus on stick-ing to assignments and executing to perfection.
Florida’s first block, Phillips said, appeared 
to be caused by poor execution by Florida Atlan-tic, while the one against Tennessee looked like a missed assignment.
“You can’t have missed assignments and you 
can’t have botched operation either,” Phillips said. “Either one of those two things and those things will cause blocks. We have to get a hat on a hat and get the operation off.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.kentucky , from page 20
notebook , from page 20
tyler , from page 20THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
How To Catch Saturday’s Game
Florida’s matchup with Kentucky at 7 p.m. Saturday will be broadcast 
nationally on ESPN and ESPN3.com. You can also get live in-game updates from us on Twitter: @Tomas_Verde, @GregLuca, @Tyler__Jett and @WattMatts.Gators sophomore Maggie 
Rodgers is adapting to a switch to defense. She’s playing more minutes than ever before.  See Story, Page 18. 
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
As a true freshman, UF cornerback Marcus Roberson has had to learn how to prepare for a game at 
the collegiate level. He has started all three games this season alongside sophomore Cody Riggs.
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Before Marcus Roberson could 
start as a true freshman, he had to 
learn how to properly prepare for a game, not just physically, but men-tally.
Defensive coordinator Dan 
Quinn said he has noticed improve-ment in that area from Roberson, but, like with all first-year players, there was a learning curve.
“Early on we had to sit down 
and say, ‘This is how you do it, and this is what you look for,’” Quinn said. “Once you learn that skill, it’s always going to stay with you as a player.”
“One of the hardest things about 
coming in as a rookie is how do you even learn how to prepare for a game. … How do you take notes on guys? How do you even watch tape?”
Instead of watching the ball, 
Roberson is now focused on forma-tions and learning how a receiver likes to break press coverage, pre-paring him to come to the meetings armed with questions. 
Quinn said he’s been impressed 
with the level of competitiveness from Roberson and fellow corner Cody Riggs, particularly against Tennessee, despite some criticism for multiple pass interference pen-alties. 
“We’re going to play physical,” 
he said. “We’re going to coach ag-gressive and play aggressive. Some of those penalties, if they’re bang-
bang plays, are going to happen. … For us, we’re going to stay 
to our style of play.”
Rainey for Heisman: Gators 
running back Chris Rainey has more than 500 yards of total of-fense through three games. He has also blocked a punt and returned another blocked punt for a touch-down. 
Coach Will Muschamp thinks 
his performance is worthy of an entrance into the Heisman debate.Roberson learning how 
to prepare each week
� WILDCATS LEAD SEC IN PUNTING.
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Kentucky coach Joker Phillips knows 
his team has a real challenge on its hands 
this weekend.
He also knows a sure-fire way for the 
Wildcats to succumb to the No. 15 Gators: Give up a blocked punt.
“(It) becomes hard to win games, peri-od, when you get a punt blocked,” Phillips said Wednesday.
In a 24-17 loss to in-state rival Louis-
ville last week, Kentucky surrendered one in the second quarter. While the Cardinals were unable to immediately capitalize, the block affected the field-position battle for the rest of the half.
Kentucky, which leads the Southeastern 
Conference in punting (42.1 net average), doesn’t want to let the same thing happen this week against a Florida team that has already blocked two punts this season. 
The first came in the season opener 
against Florida Atlantic courtesy of Solo-mon Patton, and the other by Chris Rainey early in the second quarter against Tennes-see.
The former resulted in Rainey scooping the ball and sprinting into the end zone. The latter gave Florida prime field posi-tion at Tennessee’s 13-yard line, setting up an eventual field goal by Caleb Sturgis. Ul-timately, they both ended in Florida wins, too.
“The percentages of winning the game 
go through the roof,” Florida coach Will Muschamp said. “It’s such a deflating thing for a punt team and I don’t know … that we’ve won many games when we’ve 
Gators’ special teams, blocked punts key to Kentucky game
THE JETT STREAM
Charlie Weis is a miserable, 
miserable man. And that should make you very 
happy.
Weis has a lot of reasons to 
smile. By day, he works along-side his son, a UF freshman. By night, he gets to go home to his wife and daughter. Oh, and he also gets to tinker during the day with the fastest car on the block in Chris Rainey.
Still, Weis was frowning Tues-day.
“I’m pretty disappointed,” he 
said. “Anyone who really is me-ticulous in their preparation at this stage of the season finds a lot of faults in things (their team has) done. I think we can get a lot bet-ter on offense than we are right now. We can get a lot better.”
Florida converted just 31 per -
cent of third downs against the Vols (Weis: “That makes me mis-erable”). Jeff Demps fumbled the ball in the third quar -
ter (“Not very hap-py about t h a t ” ) . F l o r i d a had a chance to 
run out the clock with 4:46 left but went three-and-out (“Not very happy about that”). 
Florida’s offense committed nine penalties (“Sign me up for not being happy about that, too”). Weis made a couple of bad play calls, and the Gators experienced a few mental lapses (“Trust me; there are plenty of things for me to be miserable about”).
Actually, the Gators’ offense 
hasn’t looked so miserable. Flor -
ida is averaging 37.7 points and 442.3 yards per game. At this point last year, the Gators were averaging 34.3 points (not too different) and 317.3 yards (much worse).
Weis sounds like a curmud-
geon, but you should be pumped Florida finally has an offensive coordinator willing to address is-sues. 
During his two-year run as the 
Gators’ play-caller, Steve Add-azio came to interviews ready to fight. He morphed into Sgt. 
Stark contrast between Weis and Addazio as coordinator
Tyler Jett
twitter: @tyler__jett“The percentages of winning the 
game go through the roof.” 
Will Muschamp 
Florida coachUF Fo otball
SEE no TEBook, p AgE 19
SEE kEnTucky, p AgE 19
SEE T yLER, p AgE 19
Quotable
“Just lower body.” 
Will Muschamp  
UF coach
(when asked to clarify TE Jordan Reed’s injury)