VOLUME 106 ISSUE 55 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Bright Futures poses challenge for student
A high school student struggles to meet the 
revised Bright Futures requirements before the application deadline, pg. 4. Seating changes cause confusion at Gator Growl
Adjustments were made because the stage was moved, pg 3.  
Denial to legalize marijuana creates stir among students
Students are working on another petition, pg 8. Florida coach 
Will Muschamp 
was disappointed 
by the defense’s 
second-half perfor-
mance Saturday. 
See story, Page 15.
  MINA RADMAN
 Alligator Writer
  Dressed in an orange-and-blue 
tutu and orange Gators bloomers, 
2-year-old Vanessa Pearce found herself a new friend at the Home-coming parade.
  At 11:30 a.m., half an hour be-
fore the parade began, Vanessa and 15-month-old Arabelle Kolb crawled and walked together near the Gator Wesley Founda-tion on University Avenue under the watchful eyes of their moth-ers, Camille Valenzuela, 26, and Danielle Kolb, 24, both Gainesville residents. 
  Families braved the cold weath-er and lined University Avenue on Friday morning to watch the Homecoming parade, which began at noon and lasted about two hours. There were high school marching bands, local businesses, ﬂ  oats from UF and Gainesville organizations and ﬁ  re trucks with sirens blaring.
  Valenzuela couldn’t wait for 
Vanessa to see the ﬁ  re trucks.
  “Hopefully, they’ll keep her en-
tertained,” she said.
  Small dogs ran with their 
owners in the Gator Gallop 
80/59
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  13
SPORTS 15FLORIDA 26 VANDERBILT 21
CLOSE TO COLLAPSE, UF FINDS A WAY
 Community gathers for traditional Homecoming parade
SEE HOMECOMING, PAGE 5Businesses, bands participated in two-hour event   GREG LUCA 
 Alligator Staff Writer
 There were ample moments Saturday when it 
appeared the Gators might allow the unthinkable. 
  Florida hadn’t lost to Vanderbilt at home since 
1945. But these aren’t the same old Commodores 
or the same old Gators. 
  UF lost each of its four October contests, killing 
any hope of a Southeastern Conference title. 
    On the opening possession against Vanderbilt, 
Omarius Hines turned a 39-yard catch-and-run into disaster. He fumbled the ball into the end zone as he spun toward the turf, resulting in a turnover. 
    When the Commodores and quarterback Jor-
dan Rodgers attempted a furious comeback late in the game, pulling within 6 with 10:54 remaining, the Gators persevered. 
  They may not be able to avoid a disappoint-
ing season, but on Saturday they at least dodged downright embarrassment. 
  Florida (5-4, 3-4 SEC) survived multiple late-
game scares to down Vanderbilt, 26-21, in The Swamp, displaying their persistence and virtually securing a postseason bowl appearance. 
  “That’s the way they’ve been all year long,” 
coach Will Muschamp said. “They’ve continued to ﬁ  ght. These guys have pulled together.” 
  Chris Rainey, Florida’s leader in rushing and 
receiving, tested his sprained right ankle before the game but was ultimately unable to play. 
  Jeff Demps shouldered the load, carrying UF’s 
previously inept offense to a relieving win. 
  “Finally get to go home and go to sleep,” junior 
running back Mike Gillislee said. “I haven’t been sleeping so good knowing we lost. But today, we ﬁ  nished.”
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 9Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff 
Deonte Thompson (6) and Jordan Reed (center), members of UF’s hands team, 
celebrate after corraling Vanderbilt’s onside kick late in Saturday’s 26-21 win. 
   Don’t expect to see a plaque with Mike Gil-
lislee’s inspirational words pasted on the side of Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium any time 
soon. Tim Tebow, he is not.
  But Gillislee summed up Florida’s 26-21 win 
against Vanderbilt as well as anyone. 
  “It was … it was … relief,” he said.   Then, Gillislee tilted his ﬁ  tted cap down, cover-
ing his eyes, shaking his head and ﬂ  ashing a grin. Nothing more. Just a quick smile.
  Many writers have talked about this win curing 
ills, about this team showing some life in a season that was once considered lifeless. 
No. It’s still dead.  So much of this game is measured by expec-
tations, and Florida has already fallen well short 
of its own. The Gators always, always expect to compete on the biggest stage. But now, for the last month of the season, Florida is not Florida. 
  Players don’t choose 
Gainesville so they can ﬁ  nish third in the South-eastern Conference East. 
They don’t envision celebrating a six-win season, partying because they stamped their tickets to the BBVA Compass Bowl or some other irrelevant des-tination.
  The Gators can’t challenge the big boys. Instead, 
November is about saving face, about maintaining whatever pride is left, about feeling relieved. And more importantly , November is about next year. It’s about building momentum going into the off-season and spring practices and training camp.
  It’s about convincing someone you can one day 
be a champion, even if that someone is only your-
SEE TYLER, PAGE 9Gators fend off 
late comeback, ﬁ  nd win columnWin brings joy, but UF still a letdown in ‘11
Tyler Jett
twitter: @tyler__jettNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 55 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classiﬁ  eds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jﬂ  echas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
Metro Editor Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Victoria Livingston,   vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org Classiﬁ  ed Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke,   Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST WHAT’S HAPPENING
Chomp The Vote
Monday through Thursday, 
10 a.m. to 2 p.m.Turlington PlazaCome to Turlington Plaza this week to get registered to vote. The goal is to get 100 people registered. Chomp the Vote, Lambda Theta Alpha, Sigma Lambda Beta and Sigma Beta Rho are hosting the event.
Asian Food Festival: My Story, 
My DishToday, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.Gator Wesley ChurchAsian Kaleidoscope Month presents the Asian Food Festival, highlighting various UF organizations that will offer a variety of culturally inspired dishes to the com-munity. The event will feature Asian cuisine and food chal-lenges. Visit www.ufakmonth.com for more information.
UF School of Forest Resources 
and Conservation John Gray Distinguished Lecturer Franklin BotelerTuesday, 8:30 a.m.Grand Ballroom, Paramount Plaza Hotel2900 SW 13th St.Franklin E. Boteler, assis-tant director of the  Institute of Bioenergy, Climate and Environment, will speak on “Forest Resources: Constant Values in a Sea of Change.” For more information, visit http://sfrc.ufl.edu/down-load/JG2011.pdf or call 352-846-0850. The event is free to the public. 
HEAL’s 4th Fall Meeting
Tuesday, 6:30 p.m.Leigh Hall Room 207Come to the fourth meeting of Health Education Asian Leaders. Learn more about the group’s upcoming event, Health Panel, and how to be a part of it. Learn about the pres-tigious Junior Honors Medical Program, as well as the Honors Combined BS/DMD Program during this meeting’s teaching section.First Amendment Free Food 
FestivalWednesday, noon to 2 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasStudents can trade their First Amendment rights for free food to educate people about the importance of free speech.
LGBT Stories: Queer in Asian 
AmericaWednesday, 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.Ustler Hall, 2nd FloorAsian Kaleidoscope Month and co-sponsor Pride Student Union invite students to at-tend LGBT Stories: Queer in Asian America. This forum seeks to inform the commu-nity and UF students about the intersection of gay, lesbi-an, bisexual, transgender and queer members of the Asian-American community. This forum-based discussion will include a panel of four guest speakers, including special guest and gender rights activ-ist Pauline Park.  See www.ufakmonth.com for more in-formation.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to jflechas@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly for-matted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Hamara Asia Film Series Part 2
Tuesday, 5:30 p.m. to 9 p.m.Reitz Union AuditoriumAsian Kaleidoscope Month presents a screening of “The Namesake,” an ac-claimed film that follows the life of an American-born South Asian who struggles with his identity and the clash of the two cultures. Visit www.ufakmonth.com for more information.
Audra McDonald Performance 
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsMultiple Grammy and Tony Award winner Audra McDonald will perform pop-ular show tunes, cinema clas-sics and original pieces at the Phillips Center. McDonald starred in ABC’s hit TV se-ries “Private Practice,” and will play the lead role in this winter’s Broadway run of The Gershwins’ “Porgy and Bess.” Student tickets are $15. Visit performingarts.ufl.edu for more information. 
The Neuroscience Club Meeting
Tuesday, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.Little Hall Room 121The group will be provid-ing information on how to apply to the IDS neurobio-logical sciences major. This unique and flexible major is designed for undergradu-ates interested in the bio-logical basis of the brain and behavior. Free pizza and drinks will be provided. For more information, visit the group’s website at http://neuroscienceclub.webs.com/.
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY
SUNNY
66/44THUNDER
STORMS
78/46PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/59PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/59
 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Nov. 11, 1964: The UF Legislative Coun-
cil discusses televising the UF vs. FSU game 
through education stations at both schools because of the lack of student tickets avail-able. UF receives 9,000 tickets for the game and sells the tickets for $5.15 each.
Nov. 8, 1973: J. Robert Cade believes 
kidney dialysis treatment may be a cure for schizophrenia. His patient, 30-year-old Lin-da Cook, who suffered from schizophre-nia for 15 years, claims to feel normal after undergoing dialysis treatment. Cade must perform additional research to see if kidney dialysis plays a role in schizophrenia. Cade is also the inventor of Gatorade.
Nov. 8, 1988: UF basketball player 
Dwayne Schintzius is charged with two counts of battery and suspended from the team for allegedly attacking two men with a tennis racket behind a nightclub.
Nov. 7, 1994: Homecoming celebrations 
earn mixed reviews despite increased at-tendance for every event. While attendee Brian Stenberg said he enjoyed the comedi-ans at Gator Growl, which included Bobby Slayton and Sinbad, he said, “The skits sucked.”
Nov. 7, 2005: UF narrowly defeats 
Vanderbilt 49-42 in double overtime after Gators cornerback Reggie Lewis catches a “game-clinching” interception.
— MINA RADMAN and RACHEL ROWAN� ORGANIZERS ESTIMATE 
ABOUT 27,000 ATTENDED.
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
About 27,000 students, 
alumni and Gator fans poured 
into Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Friday night for the annual Gator Growl pep rally.
About 10,000 to 20,000 of 
them tried to get into the sta-dium around the same time, University Police Department Sgt. Mike Metz said. He said 100 to 200 people tried to “slam through” each gate.
Gator Growl Director of 
Public Relations Cait Feroleto said part of the issue was that much of the audience arrived just before 7 p.m., when the show was scheduled to start.
Most students had tickets 
that were for general admis-sion, but some audience mem-bers had assigned seats.
Daniella Cortes, a 20-year-
old public relations junior, and David Armas, a 20-year-old advertising junior, were in their seats for an hour and a half until they left to use the bathroom. When they came back, security guards told them they had to relocate be-cause they were sitting in a re-served block. 
“The thing is, when I bought 
my ticket, they said I could sit anywhere,” Armas said.
Gator Growl Producer 
Aaron Heger said moving the stage from the north end zone to the student section of the stadium changed the seating arrangements. Audience seat-ing ran from one end zone to the other on the alumni side of the stadium on Friday.
In past years, the audience 
was split between the student and alumni bleachers.
“Hiccups will happen 
sometimes with major chang-es,” Heger said. He said Growl was slightly understaffed with ushers, which contributed to the seating confusion.
He estimated that 27,000 
people attended the pep rally , but final numbers were not available at press time.
Feroleto said this was the 
first year with general admis-sion seating. 
“Next year, we’ll probably 
plan the seating a little better, maybe go back to assigned seating with blocks and stuff.”
Seating changes cause confusion at Growl
DAVID WILLIAMS
Alligator Contributing Writer
For some, running a half marathon 
seems nothing short of impossible.
The Tom Walker Memorial Half Mara-
thon, geared to help all types of runners 
develop healthy lifestyles, attempts to change that perception. The half mara-thon, hosted by the Florida Track Club, is scheduled for Saturday at 8 a.m. at Boul-ware Springs Park in Gainesville.
“The most important part is to have a 
race where participants can feel like they have accomplished something,” said Mark Ou, the race coordinator for the Florida Track Club. “If you work hard at some-thing like running, you never know what else you can accomplish.”The Florida Track Club’s goal is to give 
runners, experienced and otherwise, the opportunity to cultivate healthy habits that will be seen in both running and the rest of their lives, Ou said.
“Running is the cheapest, easiest thing 
you can do to stay in shape and to stay busy ,” he said. 
John Culver, a 21-year-old environmen-
tal science senior, ran the half marathon in 2009 and placed among the top runners.
“It’s not so much about running a whole bunch of miles on your own that is exhilarating, but it’s hanging out with your friends for an hour and a half in the morn-ing and challenging yourself,” he said.
He said that as a college student, run-
ning is important as both a stress reliever and a way to stay focused.
“I’ve memorized more organic chem-
istry structures in my head while running than I have any other time,” Culver said. “They may not be right, but I memorized them.”
This race is a great first half-marathon 
because it gives runners an opportunity to focus on the racing experience, not the course’s technical aspects, Culver said.
Early registration for the half marathon 
is $25 for track club members and $30 for non-members until Nov. 8.Half marathon encourages healthy living
“If you work hard at something 
like running, you never know 
what else you can accomplish.”
Mark Ou
race coordinator for the Florida Track ClubERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
Marisol Diaz is hungry to suc-
ceed. 
The 17-year-old high school se-
nior is pulling a 5.3 weighted GPA 
at South Dade Senior High School in Homestead.
On her first try, she earned an 
SAT score that could have gotten her into Boston University, one of her top choices for college. Marisol opted to take it again because, she said, she thought she could do bet-ter.
But while she was studying, 
Marisol had been putting off do-ing community service hours for the Bright Futures Scholarship Program, which saw changes to its qualifying requirements over the summer.
Now she may not receive the 
scholarship at all.
The community service require-
ments for both the Florida Me-dallion Scholars and the Florida Academic Scholars awards have in-creased from zero hours to 75 hours and 75 to 100 hours, respectively. While Marisol is academically eligible for the Academic Scholars Award (previously known as the 100 percent-tuition award), she hasn’t yet met the service require-ments for the smaller Medallion Scholars Award. 
With a little less than a month 
to go before applications are due, Marisol Diaz is still short by 25 hours. 
She’ll probably start tutoring 
underprivileged kids through a lo-cal program, she said, but it’s going to be difficult on top of all the work she has to do for her classes in the International Baccalaureate Pro-gram at South Dade. 
She said she sometimes stays up 
until 3 a.m. doing homework, only to rise a few hours later so she can make it to school at 7:20 a.m. 
As of mid-October, Marisol said 
she had completed about 50 hours of Creativity, Action, Service activi-ties, part of the IB program’s grad-uation requirements. 
The IB program requires stu-
dents to complete 150 hours dur -
ing their junior and senior years to graduate.
She said she hadn’t completed 
the hours already because she spent most of her junior year adjusting to the rigorous IB program. She put it off over the summer as well, think-ing she would have time to com-plete the community service later. 
The deadline for submitting 
hours for IB graduation isn’t until spring of the graduation year.
However, the deadline for sub-
mitting Bright Futures applications, including completed community service hours, is Dec. 1. 
“It’s really depressing,” she said. 
“The only reason I got into IB was to look better on my transcripts.”
  
Bright Futures is footing at least 
part of the tuition bill for 97 percent of in-state freshmen at UF this year, said Rick Wilder, interim director for the Office of Student and Finan-cial Affairs. 
At the latest projections for the 
2010-2011 year, he said, $77,498,667 in Bright Futures scholarships had been disbursed to 26,292 students at UF. That number represents 74 percent of in-state undergradu-ate students and 72 percent of the university’s 36,386 undergrads, according to UF’s Office of Admis-sions.  
Some students who take the 
Bright Futures award would still be able to pay out-of-pocket for tu-ition, Wilder said, so it’s impossible to calculate how many students are dependent on the scholarship to fi-nance their education.
If the program were to disap-
pear, he said he imagines a large proportion of the students who receive the scholarship now would have to take out loans or register for fewer credit hours per semester to balance the cost.
Whatever happens to Bright Fu-
tures, eliminating the $77 million that funded expenses for students would certainly have a major im-pact.   “It’s not chump change,” Wilder 
told the Alligator in September. “It would be a pretty big blow to me [if I were a student]. That’s a lot of money to lose.” 
  
Marisol said her dream was to 
attend New York University for film, a goal she had to abandon because she hasn’t had time to put together a portfolio.
She is applying to the University 
of Chicago and Boston University, but, realizing the cost of out-of-state tuition, she will also apply to New College and Florida Interna-tional University, where she hopes she could use Bright Futures. 
Marisol’s mother, Barbara Cor -
tina, purchased a Florida Prepaid plan for Marisol and her 15-year-old sister, Rachel, when the girls were younger. 
With monthly payments, the 
Prepaid plan would’ve allowed Cortina to finish paying for Mari-sol’s and Rachel’s college educa-tions before the girls even gradu-ated from high school. 
But then came the recession, and 
with it a rough patch for their fam-ily.
Trying to make a better living, 
Cortina changed jobs. She ended up cashing in the Prepaid plan to make ends meet.  
Marisol said she has researched 
other scholarships but hasn’t had time to apply yet because final proj-ect deadlines for her six IB classes are fast approaching. 
She doesn’t know what to sacri-
fice, she said. 
Skimp on the projects and risk 
not graduating with an IB diploma after four years of dedication?
Or finish the projects and lose 
the possibility of free money for college?
With a note of resignation in her 
voice, she said she’ll probably just dig herself into a giant hole of stu-dent debt for college. 
“I do not think it’s fair, I really 
don’t,” she said. “I worked really hard these past four years. I’ve lost countless hours of sleep and I’ve been so dedicated … to come out the best I can from this high school experience.”
She can’t understand why, for 
all her time spent on school, she may not get the payoff other kids are getting for less work. If the state wants to make students work harder for Bright Futures money, she said, the scholarship should be more dependent on grades than community service. 
Cortina said she will look into 
more need-based financial aid and student loans for Marisol, but she was counting on her daughter to get some scholarships.
Unfortunately, she said, for 
both of her daughters, going to the college of their dreams will come down to how much financial help they can get for themselves. 
If they can’t get the scholarships, 
she said, they’ll have to find schools they can pay for.
“I’m not in the position to just 
fund everybody through school,” she said. “I wish I was. I can only do what I can do.”
Cortina said she’s very disap-
pointed with the changes to the Bright Futures program.
“It makes it hard, especially for 
kids who study so hard and try to do their best and end up falling short,” she said. “It’s discourag-ing.”4, ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
Carey Jester / Alligator
Marisol Diaz, 17, a student at South Dade Senior High School, studies and does homework for her          
International Baccalaureate program classes.
High school student stuggles with new Bright Futures requirementsreseAr Ch
JAVIER PEÑA 
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Sept. 19, 2010, Rutgers University freshman Tyler Cle-
menti was recorded on a webcam having an intimate encoun-
ter with another male student. 
After the video was streamed online, Clementi committed 
suicide.
Bullying and cyberbullying are some of the current issues 
surrounding a large portion of college students like Clementi, according to a recent study from Indiana State University.
Researchers found that 15 percent of college students sur -
veyed reported being bullied and 22 percent reported being cyberbullied, according to the university’s news release.
Christine MacDonald, a professor of educational and 
school psychology at Indiana State, is the lead researcher for the study.
Studies on elementary, middle and high school students 
have been conducted, but little research has been conducted on bullying and cyberbullying among college students, Mac-
Donald said in the release.
“It doesn’t just stop when they turn 18,” 
she said.
The study also found that 42 percent of 
students reported seeing a student being bullied by another student, and 38 percent of students knew someone who had been cyberbullied.
According to the news release, cyber -
bullying occurs when technology is used 
to harass others by sending harmful images or text.
David Barkey, Southeastern Area counsel for the Anti-Defamation League, said bullying can be defined as discrimi-nation or intentionally treating someone differently based on race, gender or ethnicity.
Jowharah Sanders, founder and executive director of Na-
tional Voices for Equality, Education and Enlightenment, said bullying is an issue on college campuses because students are not willing to step forward and report a bullying incident.
“Getting people to come forward is a challenge,” she 
said.
UF biochemistry sophomore Henry Pires, 18, said he has 
not witnessed much bullying on campus but would agree that students should speak out when they see someone being picked on.
“It really does come down to how you personally react to 
a situation,” he said.Study finds cyberbullying a problem among college students
Clementi
“It makes it hard,           
especially for kids who 
study so hard and try to do 
their best and end up falling 
short.”
Barbara Cortina
mother to Marisol Diazthat preceded the parade. The two-
mile run was first held in the 1970s.  
Comedian Joel McHale, who performed at Gator Growl on Friday night, sat atop a convertible in the parade and took pho-tos and videos of the crowd as the car drove down the street. 
The Homecoming court waved to the 
crowd, Chipotle had a large burrito bal-loon and Occupy UF supporters chanted, “The rich got bailed out, we got sold out” as they marched the parade route.
The parade was part of the 88th UF 
Homecoming celebration.
UF alumnus Lee Burrows, 52, who 
graduated in 1981, said the parade has remained relatively the same. 
“It’s longer now, but we had all this 
back then, too,” he said.
Jason Bontrager, a trumpet player 
in the Gator Marching Band, marched in the parade for the first time.  
“It was great going through the student sections,” said Bontrager, a 20-year-old music education junior. “I’d do it again.” MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
This year’s was the 88th parade
HOMECOMING,
from page 1
Dana Burke / Alligator
Albert and Alberta ride in a Chevrolet Corvette down 
University Avenue as part of the UF Homecoming parade Friday afternoon.
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Contributing Writer
Melissa Julien’s pre-kindergarten classroom in Gaines-
ville’s Myra Terwilliger Elementary School has five wooden 
tables, three dry-erase white boards and nine paper gold-fish taped to the floor. Her special-needs students paint at the tables, write on the boards and sit on the fish when they line up for lunch. 
But one thing would complete Julien’s classroom: a rug. 
A $344 rug. A rug she did not have the money to buy — un-til a colleague told her about DonorsChoose.org.
Local teachers like Julien post projects daily. Julien’s rug 
features 40 colored squares with white rims around them. The rug helps students with autism establish their own de-fined space while sitting with peers.
Nearly 600,000 people nationally have 
funded about 205,000 projects through donations totaling $88 million, according to information provided by Katie Bisbee, 
chief marketing officer for DonorsChoose.org. In Florida, more than 9,000 teach-ers have posted projects to benefit their 184,000 students, according to the web-site.
Julien chose to use the website because 
she could not afford to buy the rug herself. The state of Florida provides each teacher with a stipend 
of about $100 at the start of each school year, Julien said, but this money goes quickly. The budget is “nearly non-existent,” she said.
This lack of funds is difficult to work with because Ter -
williger Elementary is a Title I school, Julien said. This means that about 40 percent or more of its students come from low-income families.
“Something as simple as this can be used as a sense of 
comfort and predictability for these students,” Julien wrote on her project page. “Students can learn the boundaries of personal space and what it means to work together as a class for the first time in their lives.”Teachers use website to ask for school supplies donations� THE GROUP WILL HOST 
PANELS AND DISCUSSIONS ABOUT ASEXUALITY EACH NIGHT THIS WEEK.
ALYSSA HUBBELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Steering away from hetero-
sexual and homosexual identi-
ties, the discussion of asexual-ity at UF sheds light on the idea of sexuality as a spectrum of colors rather than simply black or white.
UF Pride Student Union’s 
“Asexual Days” seek to bring together people of different sexual orientations to learn about what it is to be asexual, or someone who does not expe-rience sexual attraction toward males or females, said sopho-more David McDermott, 19, a member of the organization.
A panel of asexual students 
will provide insight into what it means to be asexual today at 8 p.m. in the Ustler Hall Atrium. A film screening of Director 
Angela Tucker’s “(A)sexual” will take place Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the New Physics Build-ing Room 1216. 
The film will bring aware-
ness to what it is like to be non-sexual in a world where music, art and social media are often sexually oriented. 
The closing event will fea-
ture David Jay, founder of Asexual Visibility and Educa-tion Network. 
Jay will give a keynote 
speech Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora.
“Sexuality is a spectrum, 
not just black and white,” Mc-Dermott said. “And when we look at it as black and white, we alienate people.”Pride Student Union to 
host educational events
“Sexuality is a        
spectrum, not just black 
and white.”
David McDermott
member of UF Pride Student 
Union 
Bisbee
“It was great going through 
the student sections. I’d do it 
again.”
Jason Bontrager
UF music education junior and trumpet 
player in the Gator Marching BandReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialMONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
142 TOTAL VOTES18% YES
82% NOFriday’s question: Do you like listening 
to music by Nickelback? Today’s question: Have you ever had sex in a public 
place, or somewhere you weren’t supposed to?Indecent Exposure
Keep it classy; don’t 
have sex in public
Recently, two UF students were found guilty in a court-house, but not by a jury. 
Jared Dauth, 21, and Maya Mansuer, 23, were spot-
ted trespassing at a construction site for a federal courthouse in Jacksonville during the Florida-Georgia weekend, accord-ing to reports. 
But it wasn’t their property violation that warranted atten-
tion from the media. 
The students, after having a few drinks, apparently de-
cided they needed to get to know one another better. Who knows? Perhaps they met at the game and needed some pri-vacy to explore their feelings. 
So, they climbed the fence at the construction site and pro-
ceeded to “confess” their newfound love for each other all over a nearby picnic table, taking the phrase “eating out” to a whole new level. 
OK, we’ll get to the point. They were naked and having sex. Someone spotted them, reported it to authorities and now 
they are facing charges for trespassing and indecent expo-sure. 
Come on, people! Have some common sense. Yes, the Florida-Georgia game 
is the “World’s Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party,” but not in the way that these students interpreted it. 
UF not only lost the game that weekend, it also lost a few 
“class” points. 
For one thing, don’t have sex in public. Don’t do it. Yes, 
alcohol impairs your judgment, but getting a no-tell motel room in Jacksonville can’t be that difficult.
If this is too hard of a principle for you to wrap your brain 
around, maybe you either shouldn’t drink, or you could tat-too “Don’t have sex in public” on your forearm. That’s classi-er than actually engaging in the act. 
For another thing, don’t trespass, and especially don’t tres-
pass on state or federal property to perform your dirty deeds. Do you really want to have a felony trespassing charge for doing the nasty? 
One would hope that college-aged individuals, especially 
those over the age of 21, would be able to control their carnal urges.
Clearly, this wasn’t the case. Everyone has crazy stories from college, but something 
about “remember the time we were caught butt-naked hav-ing sex at the construction site for the new federal courthouse during the Florida-Georgia game“ doesn’t have the nostalgic ring to it like other crazy college stories. 
Let these two individuals serve as an example of what not 
to do while representing UF students anywhere and every-where.Students overcrowd anthropology department
Gov. Rick Scott clearly touched a nerve a few weeks ago when he bashed anthropology majors, saying he thought we had too many. The local responses 
were furious. While I disagree with his implied premise that a liberal arts education is not as valuable as a STEM education, we really do have too many anthropology ma-jors. 
First, discussing anthropology is just a metaphor for the 
larger problem regarding how students select their majors in college. Anthropology is an incredibly important disci-pline. I have many friends who I am convinced will use what they learned in their anthropology coursework here at UF to change the world for the better. I am not attacking the subject itself, which is how I think many people con-strued the governor’s comments. 
However, we have 634 anthropology majors this fall 
at UF. There is no way even 10 percent of these students could go to grad school in this discipline and find a liv-ing wage coming out. It’s clear from talking with friends that the major can be tough if you apply yourself and do research, but it can also be unbelievably easy if you coast, which is what a good number of people are doing. 
I know people who majored in psychology and Eng-
lish who are having a really tough time right now in the job market. This is partly due to the reputation these ma-jors have because of the less serious students who choose them. If you are not sure about what to major in, please don’t major in psychology. There are countless other de-partments that teach you interesting things that might give you a good GPA if you look hard enough. Geology, physics, geography, chemistry and the foreign languages are all areas that have the capacity for more students. I think there is a herd mentality in college where you want to major in the same discipline as your friends, and this is a detriment to everyone. 
I came to UF and majored in political science. While I 
think it is a valuable major, it was a very large one. I de-cided to look around more and found the statistics and econom-ics departments, which have been a good fit for me. When there are more than 1,400 psychology ma-jors, there is clearly a problem at UF. I can’t really blame the gov-ernor for asking a serious ques-tion: Why should the state give funding for students to study a 
subject when the data suggests they are not as able to get jobs as others? 
I think the answer is to encourage people who want to 
be anthropologists to study anthropology. If you are really good at the subject and find it interesting, that’s a good reason to study the subject, as long as you are willing to participate in internships and extracurricular activities to prepare yourself for the job market. 
I don’t have the answers, but perhaps the professors in 
these overcrowded departments could raise the grading standards. This would discourage all but the most serious students from studying these disciplines. There would be an incentive to shop more heavily for what’s truly interest-ing to a student. 
If you care about finding yourself in college, there are 
certainly cheaper ways to do it. The state government should not force people to change their majors, but they should absolutely provide incentives for people to study subjects they view as critical to the state. As long as UF re-ceives state money, the state of Florida should have a say in how the institution is educating students. 
If you want an easy major and don’t want to work 
hard, give those students who want to be psychologists or anthropologists a break by not overcrowding their classes. Go to the business college.
Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at UF. 
His column appears on Mondays.
Travis Hornsby
letters@alligator.org MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
The sirens blared, the horns honked and the whistles … 
whistled. 
I sat up in my tower like an apathetic damsel waiting 
to be rescued. I wasn’t trapped by a natural disaster or a fire-breathing dragon. I was just trying to practice for the LSAT in my room while the Homecoming parade was going on down below. 
“Dear lord,” I thought to myself. “Is this what I’ve become?” 
Am I doomed to be this curmudgeon for the rest of time, yell-ing at parade-goers to take their revelry and good spirits else-where?
Although I’m a sensible beacon of guidance in most cases, 
I’ve always been down for a good time, even in high school when everyone thought I was stuck-up and boring because I liked the smell of old books. I’ll be frank here: I like to party. I get crazy , and years of gymnastics mean I can do keg stands like a champ. And if you even dared challenge me to a boat race, I would destroy everything in my path, including your self-esteem and manhood. 
But lately I’ve been feeling the creeping onslaught of adult-
hood, complete with one-a-day vitamins and taking the stairs over the elevator. The other day, I opt-ed for Starbucks oatmeal for breakfast instead of my usual bowl of nothing. I realized that oatmeal is the summation of adulthood: Once you scrape past the 
initial sugary-sweet layer of grandeur, it instantly nosedives into bland, mushy disappointment. 
I instantly regretted the $2.60 investment when I could have 
just bought Cini-minis for half the price and twice the sugar. 
Undergraduates are at that time right now when they’re 
generally trying to find themselves in that young-adult-fiction sort of way . Especially if this is your last year, you’re grappling between applying to graduate and professional school or pre-paring to bite the bullet of the “real world.” Either way , it’s a brutal and unforgiving road, and one that should not be tread on with the same attitude you have when forgetting about your online classes. 
However, the key to success in these vital decisions and 
preparations is to not lose sight of who you are and why you’re embracing this newfound responsibility in the first place. 
Make time for at least one thing you’re passionate about, like writing or dancing. Stay in touch with your friends be-cause they’re going through the same things you are, and their company can help you stay off the crazy train. The librarians at Marston or Club West do not count as friends. 
If you go into things with an I-have-to-because-that’s-the-
adult-thing-to-do attitude, you’ll instantly resent it or just find excuses not to. So don’t start going to the gym because you think that’s what you should be doing. Go because you genu-inely feel like you’ll gain something from it, like a healthier life-style or a hot date. 
Study for the GRE because getting a good score will make 
you feel good about the hard work you’ve invested, and get-ting into a grad program that you’ve been shooting for will make you happy. Pay your utility bill on time because having electricity will make you really happy. 
Adulthood doesn’t have to mean sitting alone in business-
casual dress during your lunch hour at work wondering what became of your happy-go-lucky former self. Now, if you’ll ex-cuse me, I have to go solve these logic games. 
Don’t worry, I went to Gator Growl after.Sara Solano is a journalism senior at UF.
Don’t lose sight of yourself as you transition to adulthoodGuest column
Sara Solano
Speaking Out
Welcome to the Groupon economy . 
We’ve entered a new age where cou-pon-clipping grandmas of the world 
live in harmony with 20-somethings. Labeled by Forbes magazine as the fastest-growing company ever, Groupon merges Internet retail with brick-and-mortar stores, providing cost-conscious customers discounts for everyday products and services.
But, to a handful of wary merchants, this 
is too good to be true. Originally hailed as the savior of small business, Groupon represents a machine that could cause the death of the in-dustry . The “Et tu, Brute?” of it all is that we’ve seen this story before: The fundamental me-chanics behind the Groupon business model share a striking similarity to those of the sub-prime mortgage industry. To make sure we’re on the same page, that’s not good.
Groupon’s business model is nothing short 
of fascinating. Groupon is a daily deals site that sells heavily discounted gift certificates for a variety of businesses. Millions of users re-ceive emails about daily deals, featuring prod-ucts or services at significant discounts. Users opt in for these deals, and once a threshold is reached, “The deal is on.” Thanks to the com-mitted buying power of large groups, Grou-pon is able to offer discounts between 50 and 90 percent.
Why would any merchant offer their prod-ucts at unrecoverable low prices? Advertising. In theory, these heavy discounts lure in an un-tapped, price-sensitive market. The name of the game is to target on-the-fence consumers, get them into the store and ultimately convert this to repeat sales. This is especially beneficial for struggling local businesses, where imme-diate cash needs and a desire for new custom-ers are high on their lists.
The business model is touted as a “win-
win-win.” Customers reap the benefits of in-sane bargains, businesses reap the benefits of repeat business and Groupon, all the while, gets a piece of the action. Unfortunately, it’s a model that’s severely flawed. Let’s see why.
The average Groupon is 50 percent off a 
normally-marked item. Right off the bat, any business just eliminated half its revenue. From there, Groupon pockets half of those sales just for just being Groupon, so what looks like 50 percent is actually only 25 percent for the retailer. Take this to the next level: Groupon pays a third of sales after five days, waits a month to pay one-third more and then waits another month before paying the last one-third. An item that normally goes for $50 ul-timately returns under $13 for any given busi-ness, spread unevenly over a quarter of a year. Long story short: Businesses working with Groupon are being sold an advertising cam-paign that resembles a very, very expensive loan. With a Groupon, the business is given a small amount of cash over three months from the coupon sales from Groupon, and in 
exchange, businesses must sell customers tre-mendously undercut products.
This is a machine Bernie Madoff would be 
smitten with. And worst of all, the goal that makes it worth it for businesses — to target new repeatable sales — lacks any substance. The benefits should come in the form of a larg-er loyal market, but the reality is that Groupon buyers aren’t actually any of those promised loyal consumers. Instead, Groupon purchas-ers represent a price-sensitive, bargain-hunt-ing demographic with little to zero expressed loyalty in Groupon businesses, outside of that initial discount.
A keen look into the Groupon model re-
veals cash-flow mechanics that parallel the subprime mortgage industry. Replace “busi-ness” with “mortgage bearers,” “Groupon consumer” with “subprime mortgage inves-tor” and “Groupon” with “security issuer,” and it suddenly becomes an analogy for debt securities considering how cash flows between parties. Sure, I could probably create analo-gies between the yogurt industry and Ponzi schemes if I wanted to, but the main point is to illustrate what happens when the Groupon ecosystem crumbles. It all comes down to the weakest link, which in this case is the strug-gling local businesses that are resorting to advertisements. What happens if they go out of business because of the Groupon? What happens if they anticipate bankruptcy and refuse Groupons halfway through? In both cases, businesses and customers lose. And, in both instances, buyers flock to Groupon to make a claim against their purchase. Because Groupon constantly needs cash to finance new Groupons, rebating these customers would upset a truly vicarious cash flow balancing act. Slowly but surely , a machine too big to fail can suffer from the same incremental micro events that occurred during the housing crisis, col-lapsing Groupon and bankrupting thousands of small businesses whose Groupon account receivables well exceed their almost nonexis-tent cash balances.
Rational people would never submit to 
this. But thousands of struggling businesses are doing so in record droves. You can’t fault them. Millions of consumers are buying Grou-pons because they’re worth it, building un-precedented buzz that small business owners have no reason to question.
Until now.Marc Anthony Rosa is a columnist for The 
ND Observer at the University of Notre Dame.
Groupon service may not be a good thing for small businessesUWire
Marc Anthony 
Rosa
UWire8, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer 
 
The Obama administration has denied an 
online petition with more than 70,000 support-
ers calling for the legalization of marijuana.
Jordan Shepherd, a 19-year-old psychol-
ogy junior, said the White House’s response hasn’t hurt the movement toward legaliza-tion. Rather, it has done the opposite.
“I think by actually completely ignoring 
the movement, he’s made it stronger,” said Shepherd, president of the UF chapter of NORML, a national organization that aims to repeal marijuana prohibition.
The petition, “Legalize and Regulate Mari-
juana in a Manner Similar to Alcohol,” has 74,169 signatures. It is one of eight marijuana-related petitions the White House responded to on its “We the People” website.
Online petitions need 25,000 signatures 
within 30 days to elicit a response from the administration.
Gil Kerlikowske, director of the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy, wrote the re-sponse to the marijuana petitions.
Shepherd said he was surprised the ad-
ministration chose Kerlikowske to respond.
“It’s legally written in his job description 
that he is forced to oppose legalization,” he said.
According to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998, Kerlikowske’s responsibilities as director in-clude taking any actions necessary to oppose the legalization of certain controlled substanc-es, including marijuana.
He wrote that, according to the National 
Institutes of Health, marijuana use is associ-ated with cognitive impairment, addiction and respiratory disease.
Kerlikowske also wrote the administration 
is interested in researching the drug’s poten-tial medical uses, but that the Food and Drug Administration and the Institute of Medicine have not found that smoked marijuana meets 
standards for safe and ef-fective medicine.
Following the White 
House’s response, similar petitions have surfaced. One, titled “Respond to the Marijuana Legalization Petition with an Argument 
that Doesn’t Also Apply to Alcohol,” was created on 
Oct. 28 and had 4,389 signatures Sunday.
Despite the petitions, UF political science 
professor Albert Matheny wrote in an email that the issue probably won’t be a main con-cern among politicians for a while.
“I think it’s one of those ‘third rail’ issues 
that no mainstream politician is ever going to touch,” he wrote, “since the people who want it can get as much as they want, and the peo-ple who don’t want it are at least symbolically satisfied that we have laws against it, even if they don’t work.”Students rally for legal marijuanaRESEARCH
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers are developing a po-
tential one-time gene therapy treatment 
for osteoarthritis, a chronic joint disease. 
The National Institutes of Health’s 
National Institute of Arthritis and Mus-culoskeletal and Skin Diseases awarded a one-year $900,000 grant to UF researchers to continue their laboratory studies of os-teoarthritis gene therapy in horses. 
Osteoarthritis, the most common type 
of arthritis, is a condition in which carti-lage in the joints wears away, causing bare bones to rub against each other. Currently, there is no cure for the condition. 
Though people can take pain medi-
cation for temporarily relief, over time they will lose mobility , said Dr. Steven Ghivizzani, the principal investigator and a professor of orthopaedics and reha-bilitation in the UF College of Medicine.   
About 27 million Americans age 25 and older have osteoarthritis, according to the National Institutes of Health. 
The human body is capable of making 
proteins to slow the inflammatory pro-cesses, but in an osteoarthritis patient the proteins break down too quickly to stop the degeneration.
UF researchers are taking these genes 
that block the disease and delivering them into the cells at high levels, Ghivizzani said. 
Ghivizzani is working with the UF 
College of Veterinary Medicine to de-velop this gene therapy in horses. The therapy will deliver genetic material and produce a therapeutic protein at the site of the disease.
Horses’ joints are mechanically similar 
to human joints, said Patrick Colahan, a board-certified equine surgeon in the UF College of Veterinary Medicine and co-investigator of the study . 
“Horses have a very big problem 
with osteoarthritis,” Colahan said. “They are the most athletic of the domestic ani-mals.” 
Rachael Watson, the study’s postdoc-
toral associate, deals with the project’s daily operations. Watson makes the virus and evaluates how well the therapeutic protein works in the horses.
“The results have been promising so 
far,” she said. Scientists search for cure for 
osteoarthritis in horse joints
Kerlikowske
“Horses have a very big     
problem with osteoarthritis. 
They are the most athletic of the 
domestic animals.”
Patrick Colahan
equine surgeon in the UF College                     
of Veterinary Medicineself. Florida needed to beat Vanderbilt to prove that it 
could actually win again, that it could maybe be Florida again sometime soon.
That’s why every Gators player, coach and fan let 
out a collective sigh of relief when Jordan Reed snagged Vanderbilt’s onside kick to preserve the win. 
If Reed doesn’t hold on to the ball, or if Vanderbilt 
doesn’t bail out Florida with a pass interference on its last drive, or if Commodores defensive tackle Rob Lohr doesn’t jump offside on a fourth-and-1, or if the refer -
ees don’t ignore a blatant pass interference by De’Ante Saunders on a third-and-8 on the previous drive, Van-derbilt wins Saturday.
By the end of the fourth quarter, UF’s cornerbacks 
had no confidence left. Vanderbilt quarterback Jordan Rodgers (brother of Aaron) carved them up, finishing with 297 passing yards and three total touchdowns. 
Coach Will Muschamp chided his defensive backs 
after the game for going soft, but that has become the Florida Way the last five games.
Still, the Gators came out with the win. They can 
breathe.
Earl Okine described the locker room after Satur -
day’s win as “ecstatic.” Jeff Demps and Gillislee said they could sleep sound again. John Brantley said his teammates would wear a smile — the kind Gillislee flashed — while watching football on Saturday night.
And we all know what game they were watching, 
because there was really only one game worth watch-ing Saturday . If the Alabama-LSU game felt familiar, it’s because Florida used to be on that stage, used to thrive on it, even.
Like Gillislee, Matt Elam’s words won’t ever be im-
mortalized. Still, his thoughts on Saturday are worth noting, courtesy of Twitter. “Why can’t Elam be in this game right now,” he wrote in third person.
Maybe you will get to play in that game one day , 
Matt, but the journey starts now.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Florida running back Jeff Demps celebrates after scoring 
on a 52-yard touchdown in the fourth quarter Saturday. 
TYLER , from page 1 Demps rushes for career-high 158, 2 TDs
Defensive tackle Dominique Easley said the Gators got a 
monkey off their back. 
Safety Matt Elam, defensive end Earl Okine and line-
backer Jon Bostic called the mood in the Gators’ locker room 
ecstatic, regardless of the mediocre results this season.
“It was crazy,” Bostic said. “Everybody was ready to get 
that ‘W.’ We went out there and got it.”
The key to Florida’s success was a renewed running 
game. After rushing for 175 yards in October, the Gators churned out 197 against the Commodores. 
Demps was limited by an ankle injury throughout the 
month, rushing a combined 13 times for 16 yards.
On Saturday , he carried the ball 23 times for 158 yards 
and two touchdowns, displaying his all-world speed. 
With senior quarterback John Brantley’s ankle injury 
keeping him from taking snaps under center, the Gators resorted to the pistol formation.
The new look, which the Gators installed Monday and 
prepared to use all week, set up the type of straight-ahead rushing attack UF had lacked in its previous four games. 
Despite all of UF’s success in the pistol, it was a tradi-
tional I-formation run that was the most critical of the day . 
Vanderbilt (4-5, 1-5 SEC) was within six points of the 
lead and had scored on two of its last three possessions when, on third-and-1 from the UF 48-yard line, Jacoby Bris-sett took the snap, faked a dive to fullback Hunter Joyer and pitched the ball to Demps on his left. 
As the Vanderbilt defense collapsed to the middle and 
tight end A.C. Leonard sealed the edge, Demps faced a one-on-one matchup in the open field. 
He took a quick step to the outside and then cut in, a 
move so swift it dropped Vanderbilt safety Kenny Ladler to his knees. 
Demps sprinted uncontested the rest of the way for the 
score, icing Florida’s reclamation win. 
“It wasn’t the prettiest, but we came out with the W,” 
Bostic said. “We needed the win. We needed to turn every-thing back around.”
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.FOOTBALL , from page 1MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $329
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2Frederick Gardens
1/1s Under $5002/1s Under $600Immediate and Spring AvailabilityCall (352) 372-755512-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 11
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 THFREE Cable with HBOAll the amenities & FREE tanningGated, PET FRIENDLYTheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.445512-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-22BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
GIGANTIC 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks to UF/
Sorority/Norman area. Dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, new wd flrs, W/D, DW. Pets ok. Parking! Reduced to $1595. Avail now or Jan 352-665-8166 lv msg.   11-23-11-50-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381     11-10-11-10-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1750/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    11-15-11-20-2
● Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 3 blocks to UF  
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
● 3BD/1BA House - 2046 NW 31 PL
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
11-16-11-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2
Close to UF, $595/month 2BR with 
2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098    11-10-11-10-2
3 or 4BR/1.5BA CONDO
2116 SW 70th Terr. Available anytime. $700/mo. (First & Last)  Call 352-514-9698    11-9-11-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Cabana Beach Sublease 2/2
Available now to Aug 2012,$509/mo each, Furnished W/Dcall  352-552-1757    11-23-11-14-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    11-9-11-9-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
11-16-11-10-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
11-30-11-61-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      11-10-11-77-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 ●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14
Magician Needed
for company party on December 9th from 
6:00 - 7:00 pm. Please call 352-514-3436.  11-7-11-10-14
Legal Secretary/Receptionist. $9/hour. F/T. 
Needs to be responsible, diligent, and de-pendable. Call 352-371-4000.   11-16-11-15-14
Web Programmers (.NET) jobs and intern-
ships available at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   11-8-11-10-14
 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
Search Engine Optimization (SEO) spe-
cialist wanted at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume and SEO samples to hr@352media.com    11-8-11-10-14
ATTTENTION STUDENTS
Part time help needed at Westgate Home Sales. Please contact Matt for details 352-378-2453 x 19   11-9-11-10-14
Medical assistant needed for busy dermatol-
ogy office. Part-time position available, 10-20 hrs wk. This is an ideal position for pre-med, nursing or allied health student. Will train en-ergetic, enthusiastic individual. Medical asst certificate not required. Email resume toofmgrbeers@aol.com.    11-7-5-14
Busy Dermatology office seeking medical
billing / front office assistant. Ideal forbusiness or similar major. Part-timeposition leading to possible full-time with management potential. email resume toofmgrbeers@aol.com.    11-7-5-14
Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual 
with good attention to detail to work in an-tibody purification and kit development. Knowledge of ELISA methodology and basic immunology is desirable. Basic laboratory skills and ability to manage multiple projects required. B.S. in scientific field preferred; laboratory experience may be substituted. Send resume to info@elisa-tek.com.   11-8-11-5-14Looking for a fitness model for website. 
Please, send pic & info to ergofit101@gmail.com or ergofit101.com. Photography should take less than 1 hour at a popular G'ville gym. You will receive name credit & $25 visa card.    11-7-3-14
Cleaning/Organizing person for busy family. 
Hours flexible, $12/hr. Email qualifications to; ladygatoruke@aol.com                 11-10-5-14
Part time yard, home and office work, self 
motivated students only. Start $10/hr. Call Sebastian 352-591-3000               11-9-4-14
Gainesville Regional Utilities
is looking for a
Temporary Part-Time Energy Analyst 
Have a passion for conservation;
great one-on-one customer service skills; 
major course work in science, math,
engineering or building construction?
Apply today at www.cityofgainesville.org
AA/EOE/DFWP Employer.
11-14-11-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.    11-22-30-21
One random winner will receive a $25 visa 
card. Just like www.GoBud.org Travel/Leisure on FB. Winner will be announced on Dec 1, 2011.   11-8-4-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: KEYS
On Newell Drive on Monday, 10/31 - late af-ternoon. Call to identify 954-801-3817   11-7-3-25INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-9-11-30-15
COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 
1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-15
Tutoring all subjects and all levels. $20/
hour. Available immediately in subjects from Algebra to Differential Equations to Physics, Statistics, or Chemistry. Call 863-430-5472.11-10-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses paid. Updates on your child.Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and 
Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi-vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
14, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
Muschamp not ready to say 
discipline problems are over
During the week leading up to the 
game, Muschamp said it was tough to 
discipline players for mistakes in prac-tice because of a lack of depth. But Okine credited Muschamp’s approach in prac-tice this week as a catalyst for the im-provement. 
“Coach made an emphasis on keeping 
positive and staying together,” he said. “He wanted to make sure nobody was having feelings like the season is over, and nobody feels that way on the team now.”
The Gators’ first two scoring drives 
were penalty-free, a welcome change from the flag-ridden games of the losing streak. Florida had 14 flags in last week’s loss to Georgia and 22 combined in the three losses prior, including 12 for 90 yards against LSU.
“We’re just more concentrated,” 
Okine said. “Our team is just tired of los-ing, so we’re just willing to do whatever it takes. We were back behind the wall, and there’s only one thing you can do, which is fight back.”
The three penalties Saturday against 
Vanderbilt was the team’s best showing this season. 
But, after the game, Muschamp was 
not ready to declare the problem solved. 
“This is one game. I’m not ready in 
one game to be able to wave the flag (and say) that we’re disciplined now,” he said. “We need to continue to work on it day in and day out because we haven’t been consistently (disciplined) all year.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.
org.
PENALTIES , from page 15Florida  26, Vanderbilt  21
Sean Richardson’s pass interference penalty.  
With Vanderbilt surging and Florida clinging to a 
six-point lead, the Gators faced a third-and-7 at their own 24. Jacoby Brissett took the snap and rolled to his right and fired downfield to a covered Frankie Hammond, who was blatantly held by Richardson. 
The play killed Vandy’s building momentum and kept the ball in Florida’s hands.
Matt 
ElamDemps put the 
Florida offense on his back Saturday, rushing for 158 yards and two scores. With Chris Rainey sidelined by a sprained ankle, Demps stepped up and carried 23 times,the second-
most
 rushes in his 
career .Howard continued his 
strong senior cam -
paign, wreaking havoc along the defensive line. He recorded five tackles, including two for a loss. He also recorded a sack and consistently affectedCommodores quarter -
back Jordan Rodgers.SWAMP STUDS
Jaye 
Howard197
Florida ran for 197 yards against Vanderbilt on 
Saturday after running for 175 in all of October. Demps did the majority, rushing for 158, but Mike Gillislee also contributed 39 yards on 9 carries. KEY STAT
Jeff
DempsTURNING POINT
S
(2 points)
THREE KEY PLAYS
 Jeff Demps    11 
Chris Rainey    10
Matt Elam       6
Andre Debose   5  
Mike Gillislee   5
Jon Bostic    5
Jaye Howard   4
John Brantley   2
Lerentee McCray   2
Sharrif Floyd    2
Dominique Easley   1
Kyle Christy    1STANDINGS
Elam was a bright spot 
in an otherwise bleaksecondary. He re -
corded five tackles and a team-high three for loss, often playing near the line of scrim -
mage to stifle Vander -
bilt’s running game. Healso had a quarterback hurry and broke up a pass.
Onside kick recovery . Vanderbilt brought the score to 26-21 with 1:16 remaining but, with no timeouts, the Commodores needed an onside kick for a chance to finish the comeback. Ryan Fowler bounced a kick towards Florida’s hands team, and Jordan Reed elevated to bring it in and secure the win.
1 2 3 4 Final
Vanderbilt
Florida21 0
0 2601773146
SCORE BY QUARTERS
RB
(3 points )Jeff Demps’ 52-yard touchdown run . Demps 
finished off an eight-play, 94-yard drive in style, giv -
ing Florida a 12-point lead with 2:13 to play. Facing a 
third-and-1, Jacoby Brissett faked a fullback dive to Hunter Joyer and pitched to Demps, who made one man miss and ran untouched the rest of the way.Rob Lohr’s offsides penalty . Florida was on the 
verge of a quick three-and-out, which would’ve put the ball back in the hands of a hot Jordan Rodgers, when Trey Burton drew Lohr offsides on fourth-and-1. If Lohr doesn’t jump, Vanderbilt has a chance to stop UF and drive 15 yards for the go-ahead score. Instead, possession stayed with the Gators.
DT
(2 points)
Maegan Dennis / Alligator StaffOur team is just tired of losing, 
so we’re just willing to do whatever 
it takes. We were back behind the 
wall, and there’s only one thing 
you can do, which is fight back.”
Earl Okine
UF defensive endFlorida Game-By-Game Penalties
FAU: 9 for 65 yards
UAB:  9 for 55 yards
Tennessee:  16 for 150 yards
Kentucky: 5 for 45 yardsAlabama:  4 for 16 yards
LSU: 12 for 90 yardsAuburn:  6 for 40 yards
Georgia: 14 for 106 yardsVanderbilt: 3 for 17 yardsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Finishing Strong
After beating Vanderbilt, does Florida have what it takes to 
finish the regular season with three more wins? Vote online at 
alligatorSports.org.Coach Mary Wise led Florida’s volleyball team to a victory against Ole Miss on Sunday despite an error-filled first set. See Story at alligatorSports.org.
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Florida’s defense faced an un-
familiar situation Saturday, and 
coach Will Muschamp wasn’t pleased with how the Gators han-dled it.
While playing with a two-score 
lead for much of the second half, Florida’s defense was victimized by the play of Vanderbilt quarter -
back Jordan Rodgers, the younger brother of Green Bay Packers sig-nal-caller Aaron Rodgers.
Vanderbilt’s quarterback 
threw for 297 yards on 19-of-28 passing.
 Of those yards, 220 came in the 
second half against a young Flor -
ida second-
ary that had not been thoroughly tested for most of the season.
“When you get put in those sit-
uations … you still (have to) play coverage,” Muschamp said.
Florida’s secondary struggled 
to do that after the break, allow-ing Rodgers to complete 14 of 19 attempts in the second half, in-cluding touchdown passes of 26 yards and 10 yards. 
The damage could have been 
worse had Florida been flagged on a few aggressive pass defenses that appeared to be obvious pass interference calls.
Muschamp said afterward that 
he and defensive coordinator Dan Quinn continued to call plays the Gators had success with earlier in the game. 
But Florida’s defensive backs  
relaxed their coverage, allowing the Commodores to effectively move the ball downfield late in the game.“You gotta stay aggressive, you 
can’t worry about getting beat,” 
Secondary exposed in second half
� UF ENTERED GAME AS 
THE MOST PENALIZED TEAM IN THE NATION.
MATT WATTS
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The Gators committed 
just three penalties Saturday; 
they also won a football game for the first time in more than a month.
That’s not a coincidence. Florida entered the game 
as the most penalized team in the nation with 75 total flags for an average of 70.9 yards per game. Players said the number of mistakes and penalties the team had ac-crued during the four-game losing streak was a heavy emphasis in practice. 
“Coach (Will) Muschamp, 
and all the coaches actually, were very keen on (not) mak-ing mistakes and dumb pen-alties,” defensive end Earl Okine said. “We worked on that an extreme amount of time during the week.”
In their cleanest game of 
the season, the Gators took advantage of the opposi-tion’s mistakes. Vanderbilt racked up 12 flags for 106 yards, including a pivotal offsides call on fourth-and-1 at the Florida 15 as the Gators attempted to go for the first down. 
The mistake extended the 
drive, which ended with a 52-yard touchdown run from Jeff Demps to put Florida up 26-14 with just more than two minutes left in the game.
It was the kind of mistake 
the Gators made while losing four straight games in Octo-ber. 
“In order for you to learn, 
you have to go through it, so we did all that,” defensive tackle Dominique Easley said. Gators post lowest 
penalty mark of season in close win
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
All the chips were falling into place for 
the Gators to win their 10th Southeastern 
Conference Tournament title. 
But they failed to cash them in Sunday.After recovering from an early two-goal 
deficit, No. 23 Florida (16-7) was not able to put away Auburn (14-6-2) as a second-half goal gave the Tigers a 3-2 victory and their first-ever SEC Tournament Champi-onship.
Auburn, the seventh seed, was the low-
est seed to ever win the tournament, and a team UF defeated 3-2 earlier this season.
The Tigers scored the game-winner in 
the 64th minute when defender Julie King crossed it from the right side of the Gators’ box to the far post, where midfielder Ana Cate received the ball and shot it past keeper Taylor Burke from 8 yards out.
While Cate’s goal put Auburn up for 
good, Florida’s start to the game was just as costly. For the eighth time in 10 games, the Gators fell behind 1-0 in the first half.
In the 12th minute, midfielder Katy Fri-
erson, a four-time First Team All-SEC selection, controlled the ball af-ter a long free kick was played into the middle 
of the box. She kicked it through the defense from 14 yards out, just inside the left post and 
past a diving Burke for her seventh goal of the season.
“In the first few games of the tourna-ment, I felt like we brought a really great physical presence defensively,” Gators coach Becky Burleigh said. “In this game, we were not able to match that.”
Frierson extended the lead to 2-0 in the 
30th minute, when she received a pass from forward Tatiana Coleman in the middle of the UF box. She shot it toward the middle of the net, but it deflected off a Florida de-fender and was redirected into the left side of the net before Burke could adjust.
Burleigh said she wanted to see more 
of a defensive presence from her team in terms of beating the opposition to loose 
Florida falls to Auburn in SEC Tournament Championship“Coach (Will) Mus-
champ, and all the 
coaches actually, were 
very keen on (not) mak -
ing mistakes and dumb 
penalties. We worked 
on that an extreme 
amount of time during 
the week.”
Earl Okine
UF defensive endUF Fo otball
Burleigh
UF allows early goal in 3-2 losssee PeNALTIes, PA ge 14
see DeFeNse, PA ge 16
see sOCCeR, PA ge 16Brett Le Blanc / Alligator s taff
Vanderbilt receiver Chris Boyd catches a fourth-quarter touchdown 
over UF corner Marcus Roberson. UF allowed 297 passing yards. 
Poll Results
With Vanderbilt much improved this season, will Florida be able to avoid a five-game losing streak this Saturday? 50% Yes
50% NO
150 total votessafety Matt Elam said. “You 
just got to do your job.”
In his postgame press 
conference, Muschamp said he was “thoroughly disap-pointed” with how his team defended the pass late in the game — and not just with the performance of the secondary.
He also pointed to the 
play of the defensive line, which oftentimes failed to pressure Rodgers and al-lowed him to keep plays alive with his feet before he was able to find a receiver downfield.
“We don’t coach them 
to play soft,” Muschamp said. “And you let them just throw the ball downfield, that’s not what we’re trying to do, that’s not what we’re coached to do.”
Although  he was dis-
pleased with the effort, Muschamp said the issues were very correctable for the defense, which gave up a season high in passing yards. 
Muschamp said the 
problems had more to do with a lack of exposure to those types of situations than they did with actual discipline issues, making for a good learning experi-
ence for a young de-fense.
“Just  
b e c a u s e it’s a two-score game with 2:12 to go 
in the game, that doesn’t mean play soft,” Muschamp said. 
“Believe me, Monday 
morning at 6 o’clock, we’re gonna learn that you can’t play that way at the end of the game, that you gotta continue to play the game.”
Contact Tom Green at 
tgreen@alligator.org.Burleigh: Defensive effort not up 
to par throughout loss to Auburn
balls in their box and stepping 
out to block shots similar to the ones that resulted in Frier -
son’s goals.
The Gators were able to 
come back and tie the game thanks to a late first-half goal by midfielder Holly King and an early second-half goal from forward Jillian Graff.
But Burleigh said the of-
fense’s efforts were rendered 
moot by a lack of a defensive presence 
from the entire team.
“I don’t really care who 
we play,” Burleigh said. “It’s about us, and we’re trying to establish ourselves physically and then do what we do tech-nically and tactically.
“Unfortunately, we did not 
do a good job of establishing ourselves physically today to win this game.”
Florida’s next matchup 
will be determined today, when the NCAA Champion-ship bracket is announced at 4:30 p.m.Soccer , from page 1516, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gators midfielder Holly King scored a goal late in the first half of Sunday’s 
loss to pull Florida even with Auburn going into the break. 
DeFeNSe, 
from page 15Lack of pressure on 
Rodgers led to woes
Muschamp
UF Soccer