We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 53 MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgBronx Zoo closes reptile house after poisonous cobra disappears 
NEW YORK — A poisonous cobra has 
vanished from an enclosure outside public 
view at the Bronx Zoo, and its Reptile House remained closed Sunday as a precaution while zoo workers searched for the missing reptile.
While the roughly 20-inch-long Egyptian 
cobra has been unaccounted for since Friday afternoon, zoo officials say they’re confident it hasn’t gone far and isn’t in a public area. Its enclosure was in an area not open to visitors.
The animals seek out confined spaces, so this one has doubtless hidden in a place it feels safe, he said.
Once the snake gets hungry or thirsty 
enough to leave its hiding place, workers will have their best opportunity to recover it, Bre-heny said. In the meantime, the Reptile House remained closed indefinitely.
Cobra bites can be deadly if not treated 
properly , but the snakes aren’t likely to attack people unless the reptiles feel threatened.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSn  Florida coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan 
(right) and the 
top-ranked Gators 
baseball team 
fell 4-3 to South 
Carolina on Sunday, 
UF’s second loss of 
the weekend to the 
Gamecocks. 
See Story, Page 14.
Rain
80/62FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9
CROSSWORD 11
SPORTS 14
BUTLER 74 FLORIDA 71
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
NEW ORLEANS — With 9:26 
left in regulation, Florida held an 
11-point lead, staring at a trip to 
the Final Four and a return to na-
tional prominence.
But the Gators’ advantage 
quickly melted away, and when 
the buzzer sounded, they were 
looking not at a trip to Houston, 
but at a return home.
Second-seeded Florida (29-8) 
fought valiantly from start to fin-
ish, but that effort was not enough 
to keep its national championship 
dreams alive as the Gators fell 74-
71 in overtime Saturday night to No. 8-seed Butler at  New Orleans Arena.
“It hurts right now,” senior for -
ward Chandler Parsons said. “I have a terrible feeling, and I almost feel sick to my stomach.”
The loss ended the careers of 
Parsons, Alex Tyus and Vernon Macklin in heartbreaking fashion, as UF came up just short of its ul-timate goal.
The seniors wanted to go out 
as champions, but they will now leave with only an Elite Eight ap-
pearance on their NCAA Tourna-
ment résumés.“What’s going to suck, more so 
than a loss, is that we’re never go-ing to be able to play together as a team again,” junior guard Erving 
Walker said.
The Gators had every oppor -tunity to seal the win, but Butler 
used a 17-6 run late in the second half to erase UF’s lead and force overtime. 
That streak was capped by four 
straight points from Butler guard Shelvin Mack, who finished with a game-high 27.
“We had the game, but we just 
let it slip,” freshman guard Scottie 
Wilbekin said. “We kind of let our 
intensity drop down a level, and we weren’t coming up with all the loose balls and the rebounds that 
we should’ve.”
The Gators nearly secured the 
win at the end of regulation, but 
a three-pointer from Walker with one second remaining was off the 
mark, sending the game to over -
time
Later, Walker had another 
chance to keep UF alive. 
With the Gators down by three 
and 10 seconds remaining, the ju-
nior’s attempt once again came up 
short, sealing the win for Butler.
Walker’s misfires were unchar -
acteristic after a season filled with clutch plays.
“We couldn’t ask for nothing 
more,” sophomore guard Kenny Gators’ season ends just short of Final Four
sEE HOOPs, PAGE 15Matt Tripp / Alligator s taff
Florida senior center Vernon Macklin hangs his head after the Gators fell 74-71 in overtime to Butler on Sat-urday in New Orleans Arena. UF was one win away from the Final Four but couldn’t overcome the Bulldogs.
n THE 130-MEAL LIMIT FOR FEEDING 
THE HOMELESS ONLY APPLIES TO THE ST. FRANCIS HOUSE.
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
This debate is about a number, a simple 
three digits. 
That number is 130, the legal amount of 
meals Gainesville soup kitchens can give out 
every day.
But does the debate go beyond a simple 
figure? Is it about food, or is it about how a city deals with homelessness? Is it about busi-ness profits or neighborhood safety? Is it an inhumane practice or an over-publicized ne-cessity?
No one is really sure.No one really knows how to tell the story 
of a dispute that started with a piece of pa-per: where supporters have drawn lines in concrete, where city commissioners are called uncaring and a soup kitchen owner is seen as irresponsible and victimized, depending on who you talk to.
In the 1990s, a rule was added to a city per -
mit that stated soup kitchens could only serve 75 meals a day . This permit is special because all city soup kitchens have to have it in order to serve food.
In the mid-1990s, the St. Francis House 
opened for business on Main Street.
The St. Francis House has been in 
Gainesville since 1980. Back then, a Catholic 
priest, the Rev. Robert Baker, ran the organi-
zation out of St. Augustine Catholic Church.
It became an official non-profit business af-
ter the limit was in place. It’s not the only soup kitchen in Gainesville, but it’s the only one that has to adhere to the meal limit.
The Salvation Army, which is downtown 
on University Avenue, was founded in 1962, well before the limit was implemented, so it doesn’t have to abide by it. It can serve as many meals as it wants. A planned one-stop 
homeless center won’t have to follow the meal 
limit because it is a city-funded initiative.
In 2004, Kent Vann, the ex-
ecutive director of the St. Fran-cis House, filed a request to in-crease the limit from 75 to 130. 
The commission approved his request, and life went on. 
Somewhere along the way , the rule became 
a non-rule. It was loosely enforced, if at all.
Then in 2010, complaints from downtown 
residents and businesses got the commission’s attention. People said there were too many homeless 
people around the St. Francis House day and night. They said the homeless were urinating in their yards, asking for money and making them uncomfortable. Businesses said this be-havior was driving away customers. 
All of the sudden, the limit became a 
strongly enforced rule. Activists were in an uproar and still are. City staff checked to make sure the limit was enforced and still do.
A year later, the commission added an 
exception: unlimited meals on Christmas, Thanksgiving and another day of the St. Fran-cis House’s choice. 
But the debate drags on.Solutions have been suggested. So far, at 
least one is starting to work its way through City Hall.  
Vann sent a request to the commissioners 
Meal limit debate still controversial downtown
sEE MEAL LIMIT, PAGE 5NewsLocalNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 53 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an email to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Red Mango Fundraiser
Today, 8 p.m.
Red Mango on University AvenueThis fundraiser benefits Peaceful Paths shelter. Be sure 
to mention Women’s History 
Month, and the money will be donated to help this cause.
Brown Bag Lunch Series: Gender 
and LanguageToday, 11 a.m.Peabody Hall Room 411Join UF professor Diana Boxer in a conversation about gender 
and languages. Refreshments 
will be provided.
Minority Rights Conditionality 
in Europe? The Impact of 
Securitizing Minorities 
on Protection and 
Empowerment
Today, 1:30 p.m.Dauer Hall Room 215For this workshop sponsored by the Center for European 
Studies, join David Galbreath, 
visiting scholar from the University of Bath, and Esther Romeyn, Maria Stoilkova and Georgia Bianchi from UF as they talk about minorities, in-tegration, globalization and the shifting balance of power between states of the European 
Union.
SISTUHS Inc. HERstory
Today, 7 p.m.
Orange and BrewIn celebration of Women’s History Month, join the on campus to get involved and 
stay informed.
Dance Marathon 2011
Saturday, 11:30 a.m.
Stephen C. O’Connell CenterEight hundred dancers will stay awake and on their feet for 26.2 hours to raise money for Children’s Miracle Network at Shands Children’s Hospital. 
The event concludes  Sunday , 
April 3 at 2 p.m. with the clos-ing ceremony. For more infor -
mation, visit floridadm.org. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.Nubian Queens of  
SISTUHS Inc. as various fe-
male performers grace the stage representing a wom-an’s worth through words of wisdom, melodic voices  and movements elegantly captured through a heartfelt 
dance. 
Masculine Mystique: Busting 
the Myths of Male Perception
Tuesday, 7 p.m.Reitz Union Room 349
This event will be moderated 
by women, but the answers will come from UF’s first-ever “Manel”: an all-male panel of UF students of varying eth-nicities, sexualities and lead-ership positions on campus. Get the “manswers” to the 
questions.
Modern Genocide: A 
Survivor’s Perspective
Tuesday, 7 p.m.Hillel The ONE Campaign and 
Hillel Tzedek Team present 
Jacob Atem, a survivor of the ongoing genocide in Sudan. Join student leaders and ac-tivists in an interactive discus-sion of ethnic conflict, pov-erty and what can be done 
RAIN
80/62THUNDER
STORMS
79/62THUNDER
STORMS
80/63THUNDER
STORMS
81/58THUNDER
STORMS
81/60FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
March 31, 1978: Lums, a restaurant that 
used to be at 1621 SW 13th St., offers a deal of 
two eggs, two strips of bacon or hash browns and toast for 99 cents. It also offers a deal of a quarter–pound burger, fries and a beer or a soda for $1.50. Cedar River Seafood & Oyster Bar is in that location now.
March 27, 2009: Gainesville psychics get a 
boost in business thanks to a bad economy and worried students. Jesse Lucas, a seer at Wild Iris Books, says he had a client who needed answers so bad that she called him seven times in one day.
March 29, 2010: UFPD ends a concert by 
Slightly Stoopid early after several people are injured. As a result, Flavet Field is closed for concerts until it receives safety changes, in-cluding a fenced path through the field that police will use to get to the center of large crowds.
— MEREDITH RUTLANDENVIRONMENT
By REBECCA DANTA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The blue-and-purple sunset lit up 
the sky  Friday evening  for the Eco-
Artwalk, an event celebrating art fo-cusing on earth’s natural beauty.
About 600 participants took advan-
tage of the free admission and walked around venues and shops in the down-town area to view  paintings and pho-tography. Cinema Verde, an annual lo-cal film festival that co-sponsored the event, also showed short student films.
Thomas Arthur, an artist who trav-
els the country performing his show titled “Earthanima,”  told the audience he goes out and looks for images in the 
earth that have human-like qualities. 
“My sense is that the earth is alive,” 
he said. “By personi-
fying nature, I am making it human and hoping to make people feel empa-thetic.”
Janet Davies, an 
audience member, said she liked how the dance made the 
crowd look at nature from an artistic perspective.
“He found a way to make us stop 
looking at him as a performer and just focus on the ball,” she said. “Most per -
formers want us to focus on them, but not Arthur.”
Ken McMurry, the  coordinator for 
the event, said he wanted people to 
interact with art in a fun way and not 
just learn about environmental issues. He also wanted them to use creativity to find solutions to sustainability prob-lems.
“The art and films play off of each 
other to help people tap into their creative side,” he said. “So if they are faced with a problem, they will think 
creatively and maybe use recycled fab-
ric to make clothing or a bike frame to make furniture.” Ecowalk shows nature’s artistic siden SHE WILL BE A KEYNOTE SPEAKER FOR PRIDE 
AWARENESS MONTH. 
By SAMANTHA LEVY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Drag queen and reality TV show host RuPaul will appear 
on April 7 as Pride Awareness Month’s keynote speaker.
The famous cross-dresser, who will be paid $20,000 for her 
appearance, will be in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom to repre-
sent this year’s theme: A Portrait of Self-expression.
Doors will open at 7:30 p.m. for the event.
This year’s PAM will start with today’s 7 p.m. opening cer -
emonies, followed by events throughout the end of March and 
all of April including movie screenings, a drag show and the 
keynote speaker.Speaker director Chris Bryan said choosing a speaker in-
volved factoring cost and finding someone who would in-crease turnout and attract more people outside of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer community. 
Attracting attention to this PAM in and out of the LGBTQ 
community is something that Bryan hopes to increase from last year.
PAM has a website, Twitter, blog and Facebook in order 
to increase attention and create a presence on campus.
“Social media plays a huge role,” Bry-
an said. “Proper marketing and word of 
mouth are a very important factor in attendance.”
PAM has been working with Gainesville retailers for dona-
tions for events like Paint Your Orgasm to be held on the Reitz Union North Lawn on April 6. Students will express them-selves by painting T-shirts that PAM hopes to get donated.RuPaul to speak at UF on April 7
Arthur
AroundGainesvilleBy MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Protestors felt their governor 
wasn’t listening to them, so they 
broke out their megaphones on Friday.
To make their voices heard, 
about 300 disgruntled residents and students took to the streets to protest Gov. Rick Scott’s budget 
cuts with a rally hosted by Fight 
Back Florida, a labor-student co-alition.
They gathered on UF’s Plaza 
of the Americas to hear speeches while protesters in 14 cities state-wide held similar rallies. Then, they marched about 15 blocks to City Hall.
Along the way, a man sitting in 
Mother’s Pub & Grill fist-pumped to the chants with a cigarette be-tween his fingers. One marcher held a sign that compared Scott to the evil Lord Voldemort of the Harry Potter series. Drivers honked their horns, and some people left stores to join the hum-
ming river of signs and slogans.
Event coordinator Dave Sch-
neider taped a letter to the door 
of City Hall that declared it a sanctuary for labor and education rights.
“We demand a government 
for the people and not against it,” Schneider said.
Eileen Roy and Gunnar Paul-
son, members of the School Board of Alachua County, came to the rally wearing red T-shirts that read “Education Cuts Don’t Heal.”
“I think it’s an effort to destroy 
public schools,” said Roy, a 30-year 
teacher who taught at Gainesville 
High School and Eastside High School. “I honestly do.”
She said county schools have 
been shielded from the worst of the cuts so far thanks to national stimulus funding, but that finan-cial support will end after this year.
Paulson, a 40-year teacher who 
taught physical education and math at Gainesville High School and Buchholz High School, said the cuts will reduce the amount of services, like after-school sports, that schools will be able to pro-vide. Inevitably, he said, cuts will mean higher drop-out and unem-
ployment rates, which will affect 
all of Gainesville.
“People better wake up and 
realize this governor is not doing the right thing,” he said.4, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
Aundre Larrow / Alligator
UF students and Gainesville residents protest on the Plaza of the Americas against the budget cuts pro-
posed by Gov. Rick Scott. Representatives from Graduate Students United and Alachua County Educa -
tion Association were present, as well as City Comminsion District 3 candidate Susan Bottcher.
STATEGroup marches on City Hall in protest of budget cuts
 CLIFF STEARNS SPOKE AT SANTA 
FE COLLEGE ON SATURDAY.
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Halfway through his presentation at the Santa 
Fe College Auditorium on Saturday , Cliff Stearns 
briefly paused and reached into his pocket. 
The crowd watched as the congressman 
fished out a multicolored currency note from 
Zimbabwe. The bill, he said, was worth $40 
USD. He asked an audience member to read out loud the number printed on the bill. 
“Fifty trillion,” the voice announced. As he made the rounds throughout his dis-
trict Saturday, Stearns portrayed for those in at-tendance a country plagued by inefficiency and reckless spending.
“Don’t think for a moment the United States 
couldn’t be on this road,” Stearns said as he flashed the Zimbabwe note for all to see. “This [spending] is ruinous to our country .” 
The Republican congressman, who repre-
sents Florida’s 6th Congressional District, made stops Saturday in Gainesville, Newberry, Tren-ton and Micanopy . 
Stearns spent most of his time fielding ques-
tions from the politically charged audience. 
The greatest commotion came when Stearns 
posed a simple question: Should the govern-ment, if it failed to make drastic fiscal changes, shut down? 
The reaction was bitterly divided as some 
yelled a resounding “yes” while others pleaded “no.”
The last time the federal government shut 
down was between 1995 and 1996, when the 
Clinton White House clashed with Republicans 
in Congress. Some view the shutdown as the moment when the GOP lost the upswing in mo-mentum it had enjoyed in the years leading up to it. 
Such a political sequel, Stearns said in an in-
terview afterward, would not happen should a shutdown occur. This time around, he said, the financial threat facing the United States is much 
more serious, and the Republicans have a speak-er of the House, John Boehner, who is viewed 
in more favorable terms by the American pub-lic than the speaker who led the last shutdown, Newt Gingritch. 
During his presentation at Santa Fe, Stearns 
said a threat to shut down the government should be used to get both sides to the negotiat-ing table. 
While a good portion of the crowd was com-
prised of conservatives and Tea Party support-ers, some voiced their displeasure with Stearns’ call for budget cuts. 
One of the more contentious moments came 
when Stearns was asked about his support for cutting of federal funding for National Public Radio. Stearns, pointing to a video that shows NPR executive Ron Schiller calling Tea Partiers “racist,” said it was inappropriate for the gov-
ernment to provide funding for NPR given the 
current economic climate.
But some disagreed with 
the congressman.
“What about the people 
who’ll lose their jobs?”one 
voice asked.
“Tell ‘em to get a real job!” 
another voice countered.
“It is a real job!” came the 
reply as more voices joined in 
the rabble. 
Some, such as former County Commission 
candidate Lloyd Bailey , said Stearns hasn’t gone far enough during his time on Capitol Hill.
He accused the congressman of obeying his 
oath only 70 percent of the time. 
While Stearns conceded he and most people 
probably would fail the “Lloyd Bailey test,” he was committed to sound fiscal policy.
“Whether it’s George Bush, Bill Clinton or 
Barack Obama, I’ve voted to reduce your taxes,” he said.
Speaking in broader terms, Stearns acknowl-
edged that some of his constituents may not like every position he takes. Disagreements are noth-ing new to him, he said, pointing to his home life 
as an example.  
“There are even some things even my wife 
and I don’t agree on, such as interior decorat-
ing,” he said.Congressman talks taxes
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
International air raids targeted 
Moammar Gadhafi’s hometown of Sirte for the first time Sunday night as rebels quickly closed in on the regime stronghold, a formidable 
obstacle that must be overcome for 
government opponents to reach the capital Tripoli.
A heavy bombardment of Tripoli 
also began after nightfall.
Earlier in the day, rebels regained 
two key oil complexes along the coastal highway that runs from the opposition-held eastern half of the 
country toward Sirte and beyond 
that, to the capital. Moving quickly westward, the advance retraced their steps in the first rebel march toward the capital. But this time, the world’s most powerful air forces have eased the way by pounding Gadhafi’s mili-tary assets for the past week.
Sirte is located about halfway 
between the rebel-held east and the Gadhafi-controlled west along the Mediterranean coast. It is a bastion of support for Gadhafi that will be diffi-cult for the rebels to overrun, and the entrances to the city reportedly have been mined. If the rebels somehow could overcome Sirte, momentum for a march on the capital would sky-
rocket.
An AP reporter at the front said 
the latest rebel advance during the 
day reached as far west as the oil port of Ras Lanouf, about 130 miles east of Sirte.
In the contested city of Misrata in western Libya, residents reported fighting between rebels and Gadhafi loyalists who fired from tanks on residential areas. Misrata is one of two cities in western Libya that have risen against the regime and suffered 
brutal crackdowns.
In Washington, Defense Secretary 
Robert Gates said he could not offer a 
timetable for how long the Libya op-eration could last, as the Obama ad-ministration tried to bolster its case for bringing the United States into another war in the Muslim world.
The UN Security Council autho-
rized the operation to protect Libyan civilians after Gadhafi launched at-
tacks against anti-government protest-ers who demanded that he step down 
after nearly 42 years in power. The airstrikes have crippled Gadhafi’s forces, allowing rebels to advance 
less than two weeks after they had 
seemed at the brink of defeat.
Now that the rebels have re-
gained control of two key oil ports, they are making tentative plans to exploit Libya’s most valuable natural resource. 
“As they move round the coast, 
of course, the rebels will increasingly 
control the exit points of Libya’s oil,” 
British Defense Secretary Liam Fox told the BBC. “That will produce a very dynamic and a very different equilibrium inside Libya. How that will play out in terms of public opin-ion and the Gadhafi regime remains to be seen.”World forces continue 
to aid Libyan rebels
Stearns
NewsNationalin February , much like he did years ago, to ask for a change in 
the wording of the permit. This time, he’s asking for a three-hour time limit instead of a meal limit.
“Hopefully, on the board’s standpoint, the board will real-
ize that with the increase in the amount of homelessness in this area, you know, a 37 percent increase from last year, they see that the needs of the people have increased,” Vann said.
Vann will go to the Gainesville City Plan Board on Thurs-
day to argue his case. After that, the board will have the option to recommend a change to the City Commission.
Activists and commissioners alike at least partially agree  
the text change will help the disagreement, but neither is will-ing to budge about the existence of the limit.
“What we’d like to see, in a perfect scenario, is the ordinance 
repealed totally,” said Joe Cenker, a member of the Coalition to End the Meal Limit NOW!
Activists stand firm on both sides.Dan Harmeling, a downtown resident, was a civil rights 
activist in the 1970s. He married an African-American woman when it was illegal in some states to do so. He said he knew laws weren’t always moral.
When he, his wife and his two sons moved back to 
Gainesville from Washington, D.C., he was fine with the St. 
Francis House and the Salvation Army being in the area. But 
he fought when he heard of plans for a third shelter nearby.
“I think every community , including downtown, should be 
supportive of the homeless,” he said. “But an almost total con-centration of the homeless in one area is not compatible.”
Harmeling, 69, remained involved with neighborhood is-
sues and wants to keep the meal limit. 
He said if the limit is eliminated, more homeless people will 
come. He’s worried his home, with its three bird-feeders and 
two boats in the front yard, will start to look like the homes next 
to the St. Francis House.
“Around the St. Francis House, it’s deteriorating,” he said. 
“They don’t understand the history of how downtowns are de-stroyed.”
Max Tipping, executive director of the Alachua County 
Coalition for the Homeless and Hungry, called the meal limit ridiculous.
Tipping, who graduated from UF last May with degrees in  
political science and economics, said  his time at UF didn’t pre-pare him for what he’s faced as executive director. No degree could, he said.
As an undergraduate, he bought meals on campus and 
handed them out in the Bo Diddley Community Plaza, a gath-ering spot for the homeless downtown.
Tipping would talk with them while they ate. He got to 
know their names, their stories and their struggles. Now he works with homeless people every day.
Something he hears from meal limit supporters is that there 
are more than enough free meals in the city.
Yes, he says, there is plenty of food. But it isn’t all served at 
the same time of the day.
The St. Francis House starts feeding at 10:30 a.m. every day 
of the week. By noon, it’s reached the 130-person limit.
The Salvation Army starts serving at 4 p.m.If it’s Wednesday, a small group, the Gainesville Catholic Worker, serves lunch at noon at a location they call the Blue House, 218 NW 2nd Ave.
When asked about the meal limit’s effect on the homeless, 
Mayor Craig Lowe cited a study done by the county Coalition for the Homeless and Hungry — Tipping’s senior honors thesis — which says shelter is the No. 1 priority for homeless people.
Tipping said the study’s finding is pretty obvious: If people 
don’t have homes, they are homeless. If they have homes, they are not.
He said Gainesville does do a good job at providing basic 
services, food, clothing and temporary shelter, but there is a lot of work to be done in terms of getting people off the streets and 
back into society.
“I know city commissioners, and it makes them look almost 
sinister,” Tipping said. “It makes them look much more cruel 
than they really are.”
Lowe said that, while he isn’t set on keeping the limit, the 
St. Francis House would need to hold its customers responsible for what they do outside of the soup kitchen if the limit was removed.
Vann said he has a code of conduct, which is posted inside 
the St. Francis House on the main desk. The code includes no drunkenness and addresses off-site conduct. Vann said he’s abiding by the limit because it’s attached to 
a city permit. If he disobeys it, he could lose the soup kitch-en.
But he equated making him responsible for all homeless 
people to blaming bars when people are drunk outside.
Joe Jackson, a UF law professor, said the St. Francis House 
is already doing its part and can’t be held responsible for what 
happens outside its doors.
“I think the policy was wrong-headed when it was enact-
ed,” he said. “And it remains wrong-headed today.”
People start lining up at the St. Francis House hours before 
lunch starts. Some in line are homeless. Some aren’t.
Some live in St. Francis House’s transitional housing and 
can’t always afford food. Others have their own homes, but 
days come when they have to choose between food and mort-gage.
Kim Justice is one of the people in line.Justice, 50, has been homeless for a little more than a year. 
She goes to the St. Francis House when it’s cold at night and for food. She said she gets in line every day.
Once, she was meal 130.“They locked the door right behind me,” she said. “I felt 
like, ‘Oh, thank God I made it in time.’”MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Meredith Rutland / Alligator
Three-year-old Josiah Joazile waits for his lunch of soup, grapes and mashed potatoes with his mother, Joanna Cobbs, 
at the St. Francis House on March 5. They live at the St. Francis House, so they are not counted in the 130-meal limit.
The St. Francis House usually reaches the limit by noon each day
MEAL LIMIT , from page 1The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Should Florida 
elect its judiciary members?Friday’s question: It’s Friday, Fri-day. Did we just get that Rebecca Black song stuck in your head? 45% YES55% NO
143 TOTAL VOTESPound Foolish
With one in 17 of 
us living with a serious mental 
illness, it should raise some eyebrows when our state decides to cut all funding to adult mental health ser -
vices. 
In an already under -
funded area, this cut may prove particularly harm-ful. Many of the mentally 
ill find themselves on an 
endless loop of acting out, 
being arrested, going to jail, getting medicated and being released.  
With jails already func-
tioning as mental health in-
stitutions, the cuts to other 
organizations established with the mentally ill in mind 
will end up funneling more 
people into Florida’s jails. 
Often, deputies are 
trained to spot mental ill-ness, and the training 
seems to be working. How-ever, people shouldn’t have 
to cause trouble just to get 
a psychological evaluation. In fact, the idea of leav-ing the mentally ill in jail 
stops making sense on two 
fronts.
First, the program is 
structured for and special-izes in dealing with crimi-
nals, not the mentally ill. 
Second, it costs more 
to house someone in a jail 
than it does to put him or 
her in a mental institution.
The state is choosing to 
cut money immediately, 
only to end up with both a financial and social prob-
lem later. This spirit of in-
stant gratification is beyond harmful. 
It’s downright irrespon-
sible.Living Memory
Ferraro’s impact on U.S. 
politics still felt
You don’t have to be a woman to appreciate the ad-vances Geraldine Ferraro made in her 1984 shot at the vice presidency. After her death on Saturday, 
we’ve been realizing that she, along with others of her ilk, have been changing our nation far more than the requisite history-class mention would have us think. 
People like Ferraro, the first woman to run for vice 
president on a major party’s ticket, worked to change the assumptions of the American people. For that, we all have benefited. Sure, many have pointed out that her pioneer -
ing helped pave the way for Sarah Palin, but we can for -
give her for that. To ask the citizens of this nation to envi-
sion something other than an old white man as the face of 
power and leadership was a huge step. It expanded the numbers of daydreaming children who thought they one day could be a leader of this nation. 
Of course, we still have some invisible barriers. Women 
still have a harder time taking on a political career than men do. Our lawmakers’ ranks often skew away from mi-norities, and, as we’ve seen recently, sexual orientation still can cause a stir among politicians. That’s before we 
even approach the problem of the proliferation of wealthy, 
well-to-dos at the helm of our ship. 
With that said, the obstacles, be they real or imagined, 
barring many Americans from seeking or winning public 
office slowly are being chipped away. 
For changing the face of leadership and the mindset of 
a country, we thank Ferraro and the other firsts in our his-
tory.
Florida, other states should elect judges
It’s a basic tenant of American society that public-policy 
makers are held accountable for their decisions by an 
informed electorate.
For this reason, members of state legislative and ex-
ecutive branches across the nation are chosen through 
democratic electoral processes. No one suggests they be 
appointed through “independent” panels of “experts” to 
increase their effectiveness or efficiency. In fact, if anyone 
proposed such a measure, he or she would be denounced 
as an autocrat seeking to undermine a fundamental foun-
dation of our American system.
Yet, this is exactly how several states, including Flori-
da, choose many members of their judiciary. Today, most 
recognize that members of the judiciary, for better or for 
worse, play an important role in shaping pieces of public policy. It’s ironic that the decisions of the least accountable 
branch of government often have the most direct impact 
on the lives of citizens under their jurisdiction.
Opponents of judicial elections point to the importance 
of an independent judiciary. However, they are assuming 
that this goal is best fulfilled by appointing judges rather 
than electing them. What they fail to realize is that judi-cial selection panels, such as those used in Florida, recom-
mend candidates for the governor to appoint to the bench 
and are themselves composed primarily of lawyers and 
judges and help move the political process away from the 
public eye and behind closed doors.
No state has adopted the federal system of appointing 
judges, so, in many instances, vetting by these judicial pan-els is the primary scrutiny that candidates receive. Quali-
fied candidates  often are selected for office, yet qualified candidates often are left out, giving the impression that 
who you know is more important than what you know.
This is not to say that an electoral system of judicial 
selection is perfect. Judicial independence is an important hallmark of our system. Soliciting 
campaign contributions and taking 
public positions on issues that may later come before the candidates while they are serving on the bench 
makes many uncomfortable because 
it appears to undermine judicial in-
dependence. These are genuine and 
well-founded fears. However, in 
this instance, the value of judicial 
accountability weighs heavier on the scale than the value of judicial independence.
Retention elections are similarly inefficient and ineffec-
tive for providing any kind of meaningful feedback on the 
job performance of judges because information about the judges is so low among those who vote.
Partisan judicial elections would help solve this prob-
lem by providing individuals with shorthand cues for the 
basic beliefs of the candidates. While some might decry 
the idea of a partisan judiciary, they are being intellectual-
ly dishonest. Everyone allows their personal predilections 
to color their judgment in some manner. By attaching par -
tisan labels to judges, voters at least will be better able to 
tell where these judges stand on certain issues and will be 
less likely to experience buyer’s remorse.
While partisan elections for the judiciary are not a per -
fect system, it is the best option. Elections help bring back-
room deals into the light, allow voters to see what interest 
groups are supporting certain candidates and allow better accountability to the electorate. These are all admirable 
qualities, and Florida should move further than the cur -
rent reforms proposed for its judiciary and institute parti-
san elections for all of its judges. 
Zack Smith is a first-year law student. His column appears 
on Mondays.
Zack Smith
letters@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
UF demands much but returns little to 
its students
When I was watching my online finan-
cial accounting lectures the other day with 
a few hundred of my closest friends, it got 
me thinking about what kind of education 
we are paying for at UF. 
Over the past few years, I have read in 
the Alligator about how much of a bargain 
our education is here at UF. The adminis-
tration consistently tells us that we ought to pay full freight for the world-class edu-cation we receive for a relative pittance. By and large, they are correct in that we pay 
far below the national average for tuition, 
which is one of the reasons I decided to go to UF. 
Now consider the proposed 30 percent 
tuition increase along with the 15 percent increase in tuition every year until we reach the national average. 
I have no problem paying more for my 
education, but if this was any place other than a university, I would expect more 
services in exchange for paying the higher 
fees. 
The unacceptable truth of the trend in 
courses at UF is that there is a race among the colleges, especially business, to put 
as many classes as possible online. These classes generally fall into two categories: 
the ones that are jokes and the ones that TutoringZone helps us pass.
UF’s faculty-to-student ratio is abys-
mal. It consistently pulls down our rank-ing in US News. 
When money is spent on new profes-
sors, it seems like the college of medicine 
is just as likely as arts and sciences to get 
the position, which does not eliminate the problem of overcrowded undergraduate classes even though it reduces our faculty-to-student ratio on paper. 
I have had some unbelievably great pro-
fessors at UF, but it seems that the number of incentives for professors to focus on re-search protects some very awful teachers 
who happen to be fantastic researchers. 
UF is a research university, but most of 
the attention the administration has pro-
vided to raising teaching standards at UF appears to be more lip service than any-
thing else. 
I have written maybe half a dozen pa-
pers longer than 10 pages in my three years 
at UF, probably because the marginal ben-
efit of grading something like that for pro-
fessors is approximately zero.
If the University of Florida is to remain 
the preeminent institution in the state for higher learning, teaching and course qual-ity need to be greater priorities. 
If I wanted to watch lectures online for 
every class, then I just could watch MIT 
lectures for free. 
Maybe we could negotiate a deal with 
the university where we pay 50 percent of 
our tuition in exchange for a degree that 
says we learned something. 
It seems like that is a compromise that 
the college of business would be happy 
with at least. 
Travis Hornsby 
Statistics and economics junior
n n n
US government wrong to turn a blind 
eye to Bahraini massacre
I am writing to express my strong con-
demnation of the current massacre being 
perpetrated against the Bahraini people by 
Bahraini, Emirati and Saudi armed forces 
with tacit approval of our government. 
As a physician, I am appalled by the 
silence of our government as hospitals, 
physicians, nurses and wounded patients 
are attacked to intimidate and quell this legitimate and peaceful uprising for de-mocracy. On March 16, Salmaniyah Hospital 
was seized by Bahraini security forces. Wounded protesters, doctors and nurses were beaten and taken prisoner. The hos-
pital was encircled by tanks prohibiting 
access. 
This has been documented by several 
human rights organizations, including Human Rights Watch, The International 
Committee of the Red Cross and Amnesty 
International. 
While it is a common fact that the Bah-
raini and Saudi monarchs are ruthless dic-
tators who will stop at nothing to maintain 
their power, it is disturbing that our gov-ernment has not only remained silent but also actually turned a blind eye in order to preserve our interests in the region. 
Such hypocrisy — of preaching democ-
racy and practicing tyranny — only dete-riorates our image in the Middle East and breeds contempt for the U.S. 
I urge all of you to join me in asking 
our government to condemn this massacre and call on our allies — the Saudi, Emirati and Bahraini monarchs — to withdraw im-mediately from Bahrain and to engage the 
protesters in dialogue instead.
Dr. Aunali S. Khaku
Gainesville resident
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
American Indians depended on the buffalo 
for hundreds of years for food, clothing, tools 
and medicine. Now today’s tribes want to re-turn the favor by helping preserve one of the last genetically pure herds in North America.
The Sioux and Assiniboine tribes of the 
Fort Peck Indian Reservation have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars preparing 5,000 rolling acres in northeastern Montana for 50 wild bison from Yellowstone National Park. Their neighbors to the west at the Fort Belknap reservation have also asked for a role in managing the bison.
The animals are part of a federal quaran-
tine program and are in need of a home. The tribes say they are ready for them.
“The Native American probably wouldn’t 
have survived if it wasn’t for the buffalo,” said Robert Magnan, the head of Fort Peck’s fish and game department. “Now it’s our turn to help the buffalo instead of turning a blind eye to them.”
But they’re finding resistance from ranch-
ers, farmers and lawmakers — and, perhaps most frustratingly, silence from the state wild-life officials now considering sites for the five years remaining in the quarantine program.
Magnan recently gave The Associated 
Press a snowmobile tour of the land set aside for the bison near the Canadian border about 12 miles north of the tribes’ headquarters in Poplar.
The landscape is white, barren and seem-
ingly lifeless until the snowmobile’s roar sur -
prises a group of elk and, a few minutes later, sends a coyote scurrying.
In the middle of it all sits a 26-mile fence 
designed to contain the buffalo. The top and bottom strands of the “wildlife-friendly” fence are smooth to allow deer to jump over and pronghorn antelope and other creatures 
to pass under. Inside is a solar-paneled well to 
provide water for the bison regardless of the season.
The $200,000 price tag is well worth it, the 
tribes and conservationists say . Yellowstone National Park’s estimated 3,500 bison are a rare bunch — they are the only herd to nev-er be domesticated and the largest of only a handful of herds that have not been crossbred with cattle.
“We need to conserve their wildness as 
much as their genetics,” said Jonathon Proc-tor, regional representative for Defenders of Wildlife. “If we were to lose the Yellowstone bison or even a part of the genetic diversity of the Yellowstone herd, we lose it forever. The way they are managed right now, there’s the 
threat of just that.”
Ranchers and farmers have long fought to 
keep wild bison from wandering out of the 
park due to concerns about disease and prop-erty damage. Thousands of bison have been slaughtered over the last three decades as a matter of public policy when they stray from their Yellowstone refuge, part of a slaughter program that aims to protect Montana’s cattle 
industry against the disease brucellosis, which 
can cause livestock to abort fetuses.
In 2000, state and federal agencies created the Interagency Tribal Management Plan that aimed to balance the concerns of the cattle industry and the goal of maintaining a wild, free-ranging bison population. But since then, at least 3,800 bison have been killed.
In 2005, some Yellowstone bison were 
spared from the slaughter and placed in a facility just outside the park as part of the quarantine program to ensure they were bru-
cellosis-free. Conservationists are hopeful that 
these animals represent the first step in rein-troducing wild bison to the lands in the West they once dominated.
But landowners are fiercely resisting Mon-
tana wildlife officials’ plans to relocate those quarantined animals to other parts of the state. At least six bills before the Montana Legislature would stymie relocation, with the 
strongest one sponsored by Sen. John Brenden 
of Scobey , which lies to the north of the Fort Peck reservation.Brenden wants a two-year moratorium 
on relocating bison until state officials write a management plan for what he calls “woolly tanks” that can wreak havoc on crops and land.
“It doesn’t matter where it is, as far as I’m 
concerned — on a reservation, private land or any other land,” he said. “Until we get this bison problem fixed, why would we want to 
jeopardize the state of Montana by spreading 
bison all over?”
The tribes say their proposals have been 
met with silence from state wildlife officials who will make the decision on where to re-locate the bison. Nobody from Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks has formally responded to their proposal or ventured out to see what they’ve done to prepare for the Yellowstone 
bison, Magnan said.
“I’d like for them to treat us like another 
government and work with us. Tell us yes or 
no, give us a definite answer, don’t just say nothing,” he said.
From the state’s perspective, the matter is 
complicated by a lawsuit filed by four con-servation groups last year after Ted Turner agreed to take in 86 Yellowstone bison in ex-
change for 75 percent of their offspring. The 
conservation groups challenging the deal said the move amounts to commercialization of a wild herd that is supposed to be in the public trust.
In January , Montana Fish, Wildlife and 
Parks Director Joe Maurier cited that lawsuit as a reason for the state agency to think twice before relocating any of the quarantined bison 
to Indian reservations.
A plaintiff in the lawsuit, the Buffalo Field 
Campaign, said it did not equate the two situ-
ations.
“We would not oppose the bison being re-
introduced to their original caretakers,” said Darrell Geist, the group’s habitat coordinator. “FWP can make the decision without fear of litigation from us.”
On Thursday , Maurier’s position appeared 
to soften. He told the AP in an interview the agency would consider splitting up the quar -
antined bison, moving some to Indian res-ervations and some to state-owned wildlife management areas. 8, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
AP Photo
In this Feb. 11 photo, buffalo owned by the combined Sioux and Assiniboine Indian Tribe 
walk on their ranch inside the Fort Peck Indian Reservation north of Wolf Point, Mont. 
NATIONAL
Native Americans to help preserve buffalo populationClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
THE LANDINGS.
2/2.5 Townhomes
3/3 & 4/4 Flats
Call us at 352-336-3838!
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
2/2: From $541/person 
3/3: From $432/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
Furnished 4bedroom4bath condo,W/D/
Dishwasher for 2011-2012 starting Aug16 1/2mi from UF on bus route, 3800 SW 20th Ave between UF and Butler Plaza $325/mo ++ per student 352-586-6468   3-29-11-10-1
1/1 in 3/3 windsor prk-sublease,
incl util/cable/internet $350 furnished 
9542241542 coltmaverick@ufl.edu   3-29-11-7-1
REDUCED RENT FOR QUALIFIED 
INDIVIDUAL WILLING TO SHOW APTS. IN QUADPLEX. NEWLY REHABBED & FURNISHED 2 BDRM w/W/D. ENTAILS MINOR DUTIES. NORMALLY RENTS $735/MO. CALL 727-423-9463    4-8-11-13-1
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING!!
SPACIOUS 1050 Sqft 2BDR
ONLY $299/BED
www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's from $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
4-20-11-70-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR  n MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 4752.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
4-20-10-70-2Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.Garage included. Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         4-20-66-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    4-7-11-50-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 
920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. 
postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. 
Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. 
ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no 
dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   
5-10-11-34-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts
3 BLKS TO UF & Downtown!
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms, Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.
Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo $600 Deposit
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
216 SW 12th Street.
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit
3-31-11-15-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, W/D included, furnished common area. 352.514.3398.    3-31-15-2
*March Madness!*
Luxury 2/2s for Fall
College Park--across from UF!
Starting @ $550/room
Sign w/in 48 hrs, Waive leasing fee!
352-371-7777
3-31-11-13-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     3-29-11-11-2
1700 sq ft 3BR/2BA House
Wood floors, large screened-in back porch, 
jacuzzi, W/D, corner lot $1400/mo Call  (352) 258-9116 to see. Available Aug 1st.4-5-11-15-2
HUGE 1 BR apt for quiet mature person 
Dine-in kitchen, carport space, largeenclosed patio, utilities - cable - internetincluded, no pets. $750 2046 NW 14th Ave395-6250 or 332-1429 Kathy    3-29-11-10-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, close to campus, all appliances, W/D,hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1325 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood 
lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-3937
3-29-10-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
4-20-10-26-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
3-30-11-10-2
3bedroom $509/person
Amazing townhome with everything included! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-2801   4-20-25-2
3bedroom $509/personAll inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-24-25
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, bike 
to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dishwasher, 
garage, fenced yard, landscaped. No pets. 
Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 16th Ave. 
$1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   5-12-11-
26-2
★Walk to UF★
2,3,4,5 bedrooms Avail Aug
walk2uf.com
4-20-24-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com   
4-1-11-10-2
Two blocks from UF Stadium 
3 Bed 1 Bath, 1 Bed 1 Bath, 
and Studio. Available Summer and/or Fall
352-377-2930        4-1-11-10-2
HOUSE 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area 2BR $850, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
HOUSE 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area 3BR/2BA $1335, cent AC/heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 11
HOUSE 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area HUGE 4BR/2BA 
dining rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd 
flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, $2350, parking! 
Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg   
5-12-11-25-2
HOUSES 2-3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area. Large 4BR/2BA, 
w/dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, 
plenty of parking! $1980. Avail Aug 16th - 1 
yr. 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
SPRING SPECIAL!
Quiet 1bd 1ba 827sq ft loft.
SW G'ville on RTS 10 min on freeway from 
SFC
Just renovatd. swim pool, exercise room.
$425mo call 472-6491 or 474-0841    4-1-
11-10-2
3BR/3BA House, fenced yard, close to UF, open floor plan/cathedral ceilings, new tile, 
carpet, fixtures. W/D, lawn, and pest control 
incl. Small pets allowed, avail Aug, $1350/
month. 352-246-5958, tonyc@kinetixpt.com    
4-8-11-15-2SAVE SOME GREEN! Fall specials
3 BR 1 mile to UF. $895 for WHOLE apt!
W/D, H2O, sewer, gas incld.
Sign by April 1st to get this AWESOME deal
2700 SW Archer Rd 373-2700    4-1-9-2
●Close to UF, 2BR house, W/D, water incl $895
●1BR apt, yard, $450
●Walk to UF, large 4BR house, parking, 
hardwood, W/D $1150
Call 561-703-8490                   3-28-11-5-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1225 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   4-20-11-21-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    4-20-11-21-2www.Bellaproperties.net
3/2 with study. Walk to UF, hardwood floors, 
fireplace, 2 car garage, full sevice tour
335-5424
4-20-20-2
WALK TO UF! ONE MONTH FREE!
3 blocks from Campus. New 2/2 Condo-each 
room has private bath + gourmet kitchen & 
laundry & parking. $650 per rm. mollydh@
aol.com 614-288-6730    4-1-11-7-2
www.BellaProperties.net
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
4-20-20-2.
FOR SUMMER, May, June, July, $275/
month +utilities,1 bedroom/bath, included 
internet, futon, 10 minutes to UF, SW 13th 
ST,Swimming-pool, laundry, fitness center, 
parking,David: 352-871-5399,
dvasquezh@gmail.com     3-28-3-2
2 BR, 1 1/2 Bath, townhouse. Walk to UF 
campus and restaurantes. Washer/Dryer incl. 
Covered parking by front door. Furnished LV 
and DR available for free. Available Aug 1 or 
sooner. Call 380-0090    4-12-11-14-2
WALK TO UF
3 Bed 2 Bath House in upscale Golfview 
Estates near Law School & Athletic fields.
$1400 mo. Aug 1. Call (305) 788-4103    
4-20-11-19-2
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    
4-20-11-20-2
Duckpond area HOUSE Aug.1
Large 3/1, W&D, Cent. H/AC
wood fls, nice yard, quiet
$1100 Bike to UF
352-316-0154 www.10houses.com
4-1-11-6-2
MIKE'S HOUSES - 352-665-7316
Exc cond - Close to UF. Pets OK - fenced yards.●3/2 $1250 621 NW 35th St.●4/3 $1250 611 NW 36th Terr●3/2 $1150 630 NW 34th Terr.  4-7-11-10-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
After Spring Break,
there are less than 6 weeks 
left in the semester!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-30-3
Summer Sublease May-July $350/month 
includes utilities @ Gainesville Place Apartments 1/1 in a 4/4 42” plasma tv! Fully furnished (washer/dryer included)bbermudez@ufl.edu    3-29-5-3
1/1 in a 4/4 @ Gainesville Place for Summer. 
$424/month, all-inclusive, fully-furnished, wireless in apartment, 42" TV, close to bus stops. 2 rooms available. Contact Marcella at 954-854-2503 or mpatino@ufl.edu.   3-31-5-3
Affordable & Spacious 1/1 avail. May 1700 sq. ft. with upgraded tile floorBel Air @ Hidden LakeInterested call 219-951-2047Or email mcowen20@gmail.com    4-1-5-3Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $400/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.
3-29-10-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street 
parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, 
wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly 
lease. 727-726-2915    4-5-11-15-4
HANDYMAN SPECIAL Share 2BR/2BA MH 
in Hidden Oaks. Furn rm incl elec, ph, cable, 
internet. Close to UF, bus, shopping. $200 
NR dep. $400/mo. NS, NA, ND. Handyman 
can work off most. Caged pets ok. 331-0762    
3-29-10-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 poolside condo at Countryside. Easy com-
mute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, 
W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. Text 850 585 
4405, 386 676 9703, nukken1@aol.com 
3-31-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-
side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Direct
bus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,
nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-
357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4
I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking $300/mo which includes util & Dish Network TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-682-9412    5-30-7-4
MOVE IN AUGUST-Need 1 female stu-
dent to share clean 2/2 furnished condo in Rockwood Villas. Easy commute UF/SFC on bus rte. No pets/smoking. $450/mo. includes all utilites, W/D. Yrly lease. Text 727-494-4503, surfinbean@gmail.com    4-4-11-7-4
1 roommate needed in 4/4 at Gainesville 
Place for Fall 2011/Spring 2012. $510/month OBO. Bus Route to UF, pools, tanning, all inclusive furnished, free parking!call (850)255-3832 email jgardner@ufl.edu   3-31-5-4
Male, grad student/instructor preferred for small furnished apt on side of private home close to UF. Cable, internet, patio, safe. No pets. One person only. Avail Aug. $475/mo incl utils. 352-336-5808    4-1-11-6-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
3 / 2 on Country Woodsy 5 Acres
Owner Finance Low Down
Quick Estate Family Anixous
Low Taxes and Insurance
Call 727-541-2173  or  386-362-6293     3-30-
11-5-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    
4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
Furniture for sale-Like New. Reasonable!
UF Student Graduating. Queen Bed, Triple
Dresser & Chest, 2 Night Stands, Liv.
Room-Sofa, Love Seat, Desk Workstation
& Leather Chair, TV Stand, Cocktail Table.
$1,500 call 954-275-4008
3-31-11-10-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
12, ALLIGATOR  n MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
Estate Sale
March 26th - April 2nd
For Information Call
727-541-2173 or 386-456-8832      3-30-11-
5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!
All models between $200 - $400 off! All come with one year parts and labor warranties! Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-11-35-11
2010 PEACE SPORT
$400 cash. 5 months old, runs great.352-575-4254                  3-31-11-5-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
3-31-10-38-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
We Buy Cars, Trucks, Vans, SUV's, etc...Bring your title and get CASH TODAY!Call Gary at 352-682-8838,email dlimotors@yahoo.com orstop by 3535 North Main Street.    3-30-20-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      4-8-11-70-13 What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   4-20-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-
11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village 
is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a 
Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full 
time Life Coach positions available in both 
Independent and Assisted Living. Come 
and be a part of our growing team! These 
positions play a support role in planning, or-
ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-
ment program that promotes total health and 
wellness of each resident living here at The 
Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-
ence conducting group programs with strong 
interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-
sion for working with older adults is a must. In 
addition to experience with social programs, 
individuals with a theology background and/or 
fitness experience are encouraged to apply. 
please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     
5-17-11-27-14
PROPERTY MANAGER
PT - Friendly, energetic person.
Requires good communication skills,
sales &/or mgmt. exp. & computer
knowledge. Great benefits. Must be
avail. wknds. Apply in person CMC
2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B DFWP
4-20-11-24-14
LEASING AGENT PT
Friendly, energetic person. 20-30 hrs./wk.
Exp. preferred. Hourly & bonus. Must be
avail. wknds. Apply in person CMC
2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B  DFWP
4-20-11-24-14HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN 
or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or 
send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Lifeguard-Certification Required
$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.
State Mental Hlth Treatment Fac
Call Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-
18-14
The Village, an upscale retirement commu-
nity, is seeking a full-time Nurse Manager. 
The ideal candidate will have the following 
skills / experience:
- Current and valid license in the State of 
Florida as an RN
- Experience with Memory Support
- One to three years experience in a geriatric 
setting
- One to three years management experi -
ence
- Excellent interpersonal skills
-Please see www.thevillageonline.com/jobs 
for more information!      3-28-11-14-14
Love writing? Looking for writers for origi-
nal articles & product descriptions for 
multiple IT websites. Earn up to $150-$300/
wk from your location. Must have excellent 
grammar & writing skills. 626-602-5254
4-12-11-20-14
Remedy Staffing now offers Free Video 
Resumes. Add to you Facebook profile, 
Linkedin and many other social sites.
Call 672.6080 x-3 or email
stephenw@remedystaff.com to schedule.
4-12-11-20-4
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, 
salary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 
352-371-4000.                       3-31-11-12-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    3-29-11-10-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
PT NANNY needed M-F start by MAR 28;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs/wk; travel w/ mom;3yr old / 10 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    3-30-11-10-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web design/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-sign company. Outstanding graphic design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & CSS experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 13
Child Care Director - Part time
1+ year experience with school age children
Strong leadership & communication skills
Sundays 9am-noon. $13-$15/hr, DOE
Must be CPR & first aid certified
Apply in person: M-F 8am-4pm
United Church of Gainesville
1624 NW 5th Avenue
www.ucgainesville.org
4-1-11-11-14
SMOKERS NEEDED
...to participate in a study assessing the 
effects of various activities on smoking. 
Compensation will be provided! If inter-
ested, call 336-406-3706 or email us at 
uflsmokelab@gmail.comv    3-28-7-14
WEB DEVELOPER
part time, Dreamhost environment. On-call 
troubleshooting and update. One page re-sume to: mog@digistrat.com   3-29-11-5-14
CJ's NOW HIRING
EXPERIENCED SERVERS, BARTENDER, 
KITCHEN MANAGER (bring CV).
Please apply in person 3501 SW 2nd Ave. 
CalicoJacks.net, 352-371-1675,   3-30-11-
5-14
SPANISH TRANSLATOR
Gleim Publications is looking for candidates 
that can translate accounting material from 
English to Spanish. Must be native Spanish 
speaker who spent formative years and high 
school in their native country. Four year ac-
counting degree.
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.   4-5-11-
10-14TECH SUPPORT
LINUX ADMIN
SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.  4-5-11-
10-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
RESEARCH PARTICIPANTS NEEDED
FOR LANGUAGE STUDY! Participation
lasts 1 hour, pays $5 Starbucks giftcard.
Must be native English speaker. Interested?
Please contact: ufaphasialab@gmail.com or
(352) 273-3714 for information.
3-31-11-5-14
FT NANNY NEEDED late AUG for 1yr;
2 boys 10&14;$12/hr; ~ 30 hrs/wk;+few
overnights/wkd; must be exp/prof/ref/
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    3-31-
11-5-14
Pet Paradise Resort is hiring PT kennel 
technicians. Seeking motivated, caring, de-
tail-oriented individuals with previous animal 
experience. Weekends & holidays required. 
No calls or walk-ins, send resume to
rsimmers@petparadisemanagement.com.    
3-29-11-3-14Seeking FT sales/customer service repre-
sentative. Responsible for covering phones, 
identifying/selling business solutions to cur-
rent and potential customers, processing or-
ders, and other miscellaneous office duties. 
Ability to multi-task, meet tight deadlines 
and problem solve a plus. 2+ years exp pre-
ferred. Must be able to work M-F 9:30AM-
6PM. Email resume to
Employment@elitesoftware.com.
3-31-11-5-14
Vet Tech - Experienced Only - Full Time
Exp. w/restraint, medical protocol, client ed-
ucation. Flexible hrs. incl. weekends, good 
comm. skills, computer exp. Email resume 
to timberviewpetclinic@yahoo.com    4-1-
11-5-14
Zen Cart administrator / Designer
P/T-F/T. Pay commensurate with experi -
ence. HTML and programming skills a plus. Email resume to: tony@mcknight.ws    4-1-
11-5-14
Camp Counselors
Part time and full time positions open im-
mediately & over the summer. Must be 18 
or older and good with children. Apply with 
resume online at www.GirlsPlace.net    4-8-
11-10-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. 
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696
3-31-20-15
Microwave Oven
Repair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15
ARC Lifeguard TrainingStarts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
CPR training is back!
Need CPR/AED or 1st Aid?Meets internship requirementsFloridaHeartsaver.org(352)575-0119                        4-8-20-16
Internal Medicine doctors at the University of Florida are currently looking for people with poorly controlled Type 2 (adult onset) diabetes who may also have low Vitamin D level for a clinical study. The study will look at the effect of Vitamin D replacement on im-
proving your diabetes control. Study-related 
medical care and monetary compensa -
tion may be provided for your time. Please contact Karen Brezner at     352-273-8661.                        3-30-11-11-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.com
then call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, Natz, H1B Visas
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
(904) 425-8078
4-4-14-18
Mature artist looking for attractive, with sense 
of humor, lady to share my 4BR apt and help 
me rearrange things and shop to make a 
comforable home for the two of us. I will pay 
all the bills so you won't need money - but I 
don't drive and we need a car which I will pay 
for. Object, fun living and who knows. Call 
Bob 352-226-8449    3-28-5-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Casting call for feature film: The Best 
Western Gateway Grand at the Northwest quadrant of the intersection of I-75 and exit 390. April 2nd, 9am - 4pm. Please visitwww.SwampTales.us for more information.4-1-11-13-20
CHOW NOW FOOD TRUCKTuesdays 11am till 1:30pm
Behind Emerson Hall     3-29-11-2-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Chih-Tzu - Multicolor
Male & female, 16 wks old. All shots & medi-cal records. Incl all toys, pens/crates, etc. Price negotiable to good home. Call for de-tails. 352-284-0881 or horses2596@aol.com    3-30-11-5-24
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42x
Any info call or text (850) 543-3762REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
SportsALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org monday
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
BRACKET CHALLENGE POLL QUESTION UF-VCU CONNECTIONS alligatorSports Podcast
Today’s question: Who will win the 
Final Four?n Sports editor Adam Berry is locked in a 
heated tie for 306th place and only has one 
Final Four team in our NCAA Tournament challenge, which means there’s a good chance you’ll be eligible for fabulous prizes if you signed up and filled out a bracket.n Check back later today as Greg Luca, 
Jesse Simonton and Anthony Chiang join host Adam Berry to break down the end of the Gators’ NCAA Tournament run and look back on their season as a whole. And subscribe on iTunes.n VCU, which made the Final Four as 
a No. 11 seed, is coached by Shaka Smart, an assistant under Billy Dono-van from 2008-09. Also, guard Joey Rodriguez was a high school team-mate of UF forward Chandler Parsons.Harrison Diamond / Alligator
Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan speaks with home plate umpire Jack Cox after a controversial play during 
the Gators’ 4-3 loss to South Carolina at McKethan Stadium on Sunday.
UF BASEBALL
By JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org 
 
It took Matt Price just one day to 
get revenge. 
A day after South Carolina’s 
All-American closer surrendered 
the game-winning homer to UF’s 
Kamm Washington, the Game-cocks’ flame-throwing righty shut the door for the final 2.1 innings in No. 4 South Carolina’s 4-3 win over No. 1 Florida on Sunday afternoon in McKethan Stadium. 
“I knew I had to get the job done 
today ,” Price said. “It’s a big series. 
We’re hungry , and we’re going to 
just keep going.”
The Gators rolled out to an early 
3-0 lead before a trio of relievers for South Carolina (18-5, 4-2 Southeast-ern Conference) silenced their bats. Highlighted by Price’s late-inning dominance, the bullpen tossed seven scoreless frames as the Gamecocks 
captured the weekend set over the 
top-ranked Gators (21-4, 4-2 SEC). 
Sunday’s loss handed Florida its 
first series defeat this season, as well as the first home SEC set the Gators have dropped since an April 2009 weekend against Ole Miss. “We can play ball just as well 
as they can,” South Carolina center fielder Jackie Bradley Jr. said. “We showed that this weekend.
“We come in here and all the 
No. 1 talk and playing in their field, but you still have to go out there and play the game,” Bradley Jr. added. “Everything is not going to be handed to you. We battled and fought and everything worked our way today .” 
The Gators were shellacked 9-2 
on Friday , before Hudson Randall 
tossed a complete-game gem Satur -
day night. 
South Carolina overcame an ear -
ly 3-0 deficit in the sixth inning Sun-
day , tying the game with three runs on two walks, a hit and an error. 
Florida’s freshman Karsten 
Whitson shut the Gamecocks down for five scoreless innings, striking 
out five and allowing two hits. In 
his best start since his collegiate de-but, the right-hander limited South Carolina to just four baserunners before being pulled in the sixth after walking the leadoff man. 
“If our bullpen wasn’t so fresh, 
we probably leave him in there,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “I Gators fall to Gamecocks, drop first series of season
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN
Alligator Writer 
 
For the first time since 2006, Flori-
da suffered a home sweep. And once again, it was Georgia who stole the show. 
After surrendering 23 runs in 
two days to the Bulldogs, the Gators looked poised to salvage the series Sunday with freshman Hannah Rog-ers returning from a two-game sus-pension. 
But it was the Bulldogs who had 
the last bite. 
Backed by a dominant perfor -
mance from freshman Morgan 
Montemayor, No. 3 Georgia (27-4, 
8-3 Southeastern Conference) rolled over No. 2 Florida (30-4, 7-3 SEC) 5-1, handing UF its first home sweep since the Bulldogs did so on April 15, 2006.
“We haven’t lost a series in four 
years,” Florida coach Tim Walton 
said. “We didn’t make any plays.”
UF’s pitching 
staff could not find a way to slow down Georgia’s aggres-sive lineup as Flor -
ida allowed 28 runs 
over three days. 
The Gators had 
given up only 22 earned runs in 31 
games prior to this weekend.
Rogers was tagged for a season-
high five runs on nine hits, suffering Georgia deals UF first 
home sweep since ‘06
Walton
NEW ORLEANS
At the team’s preseason media day, 
Chandler Parsons said he thought the Gators were ready to win a na-
tional title. Reporters around him glanced away to hide their smirks.
“You guys looked at me like I was crazy 
when I said we were going to win a national 
championship,” Parsons said Friday.
Nobody took that statement seriously. 
And, to be fair, why should they have?
This was a team that was handed high 
preseason expectations, couldn’t handle suc-cess and hadn’t found its identity. Florida 
was still struggling to get on track 11 games into the season after an embarrassing over -
time loss to Jacksonville.
But on Saturday, the same team nobody 
thought had a chance at making a title run found itself one shot away from the Final Four.
UF was good enough to beat Butler and 
contend for a national title. When a team loses in overtime by such a narrow margin, it isn’t because one team is better than the other. 
It was because Butler guard Shelvin Mack banged in a three off the backboard to start the game or a layup by Erving Walker rimmed 
in-and-out.
In other words, a 
little bit of luck decides 
these types of games.
The mistake every-
body made leading up to Saturday’s game was 
believing Florida had gained an ability to win close games. That simply doesn’t exist.
However, UF does possess an unbeliev-
able amount of balance. That’s what got the Gators this far.
Billy Donovan sacrificed the last three 
years for this one, and it paid off. He spent those seasons building this team.
There is no individual star, and that’s ex-
actly how Donovan likes it. Any player in Florida’s starting five can score or can make 
a play. That’s the danger the Gators posed to 
teams this season.
Even with three future first-round picks Loss ends, but doesn’t ruin, season
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org 
Twitter: @Chiang_ReactionSEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15
SEE ANTHONY, PAGE 15SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 15MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
in his lineup in 2007, Donovan preached 
an offense that got everybody involved and always kept the ball moving.
Donovan’s coaching style translated 
into a versatile team that could attack from any angle.
To put all this into perspective, Par -
sons, who won Southeastern Conference Player of the Year this season, is fourth on the team in scoring with 11.3 points per game.
That is what made the Gators special.
However, Saturday’s loss to Butler 
overshadowed all of that — at least for a 
day.
“In time, I’ll look back on it” Parsons 
said. “We did some special things this year. We had some great moments, and it’s just hard to think about that right now with the feeling that we have.”
One day, Parsons will reflect back, re-
member the confused faces his preseason prediction caused and realize this season was nothing to sulk over.
The Gators came a lot closer to fulfill-
ing his promise than many expected, and that is something they should be proud of.ANTHONY , from page 14Bottom of UF’s order comes up empty vs. Montemayor
only her second loss of the season. 
“I don’t think we called the best game 
today,” Walton said. “We didn’t execute 
the pitches to where we called them.” 
UF’s pitchers had trouble get-ting out of innings in the first two 
games, and Sunday was no different.  
Georgia scored all five runs with two 
outs, while the Gators managed only three hits against Montemayor. 
The young righty shut down UF’s 
lineup after allowing five runs and nine hits in a rough start Saturday. 
“That’s the best she’s pitched all 
weekend,” Walton said. “She did a good job getting ahead in the count and using her off-speed pitches.” 
Despite being in her first year, Mon-
temayor has been one of the SEC’s top pitchers with a 13-2 record, and her per -
formance Sunday against a tough Gators lineup was indicative of her ability. 
“She keeps getting better and better,” 
Bulldogs coach Lu Harris-Champer said. “She was really in control of her game and pitched what she wanted to pitch when she pitched it.
“For a freshman to settle down and 
get better as the weekend goes on, you have to be proud of her for that.”
Senior Megan Bush accounted for 
UF’s only run with her team-leading 16th homer in the fifth inning. 
But the rest of the lineup barely made 
a mark on the stat sheet. 
Although Michelle Moultrie and Aja 
Paculba recorded singles, left fielder 
Kelsey Bruder went hitless, and the No. 
5-9 hitters were a combined 0 for 11 with five strikeouts. 
That lack of production from the bot-
tom of the order proved problematic as Cheyenne Coyle, Kasey Fagan, Kelsey Horton and Samantha Holle went 7 for 30 with one RBI in the series. 
“They’ve been struggling all year,” 
Walton said. “That’s why their batting averages are so low.”SOFTBALL , from page 14Florida’s bullpen struggles with command Sunday, gives up three runs
thought he was throwing the ball 
great, but I got a lot of confidence in our bullpen. Their job is to come in and throw strikes and get outs, and we just didn’t do that there in the sixth inning.”
In the bottom of the frame, Flor -ida loaded the bases with no outs but failed to score after a controver -
sial double play halted its swelling momentum. Josh Adams hit a chop-per to third, where South Carolina’s Adrian Morales threw home for the force out. 
But Adams was called out at first 
after the umpire ruled Brian John-son interfered with the catcher as he slid home. 
O’Sullivan argued vehemently , 
but to no avail. 
“I’ve got no com-
ment,” O’Sullivan said. “I don’t know what you’re sup-posed to do. You’re supposed to slide 
into the plate, but I’m not supposed to comment on the umpires.”
South Carolina plated the go-
ahead run in the eighth on a bases-
loaded walk by Morales, but it, too, 
was an inning marred with contro-versy . 
Earlier in the frame, the umpire 
ruled that Tommy Toledo hit a bat-ter, despite replays suggesting oth-erwise. Nonetheless, Florida’s usually 
stifling bullpen struggled with its command Sunday , surrendering 
three runs on three hits and three 
walks. 
“We had our opportunities,” 
O’Sullivan said. “Credit South Car -
olina. They played great this week-end and made the pitches and plays they needed to.”
BASEBALL , from page 14
Gators dominate interior early on, take questionable outside shots late
Boynton said. 
“Erving hits that shot, we win. We trust 
him. He has hit a lot of big shots, and it just 
didn’t fall.”
Florida’s shot selection was questionable 
at the end of the game, specifically Walker’s 
last two shots and Boynton’s three-point 
miss late in overtime. 
With plenty of time on the shot clock dur -
ing each possession, the Gators elected not to go inside despite their interior dominance throughout the rest of the game.
Senior Vernon Macklin was particularly 
effective, scoring a career-high 25 points on 
11-of-14 shooting.
“I felt like we should’ve had better shot 
selection at the end of the game,” freshman 
center Patric Young said.
The Gators scored 36 points in the paint 
Saturday against a physical Butler squad that never brought a double team to slow down Florida’s post  players.Senior forward Alex Tyus finished with 
14 points and felt he and Macklin should 
have been utilized more 
often down the stretch.
“I feel like our players 
just really weren’t looking 
for us,” Tyus said.
UF coach Billy Dono-
van said he wanted to get 
Macklin even more looks 
than his team-high 14 
shots but couldn’t because of foul trouble.Macklin played just 24 minutes, and 
Donovan said his 44.3 percent free-throw shooting made him a liability in late-game 
situations. 
After Macklin took advantage of one-
on-one opportunities early in the contest, 
the Bulldogs decided to make him earn his points at the stripe.
“They were just not going to allow him 
to do what he did in the first half,” Donovan said. “If he was going to get an angle, they were going to foul him.”HOOPS , from page 1
Donovan
Baseball
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Megan Bush hit her team-high 16th homer of the year Sunday, 
the Gators’ only run of the day, but UF was swept by Georgia over the weekend.
16, ALLIGATOR n MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
What’s on the WebThere was so much happening in the Florida sports world this weekend that we couldn’t ﬁ  t it all in print. For more on each of these 
stories, check out our website at alligatorSports.org.
Track and Field
The ﬁ  rst two meets of the Florida outdoor track season, both at 
UCF, were tune-up competitions to gauge where the Gators are competitively heading into this weekend’s Pepsi Florida Relays. After a school record and seven combined victories between the men’s and women’s squads, UF seems ready to get the competition started. Jeremy Postin set a UF record in the hammer throw. “Jeremy Postin is a guy that walked on and didn’t even know what the hammer was three years ago,” UF coach Mike Holloway said. “After four years of being in the program, I think it’s a great accomplish-ment for Jeremy.”Men’s Golf
The Florida men’s golf team looked to return to its winning ways, but the Gators didn’t do much to help themselves Sunday. After shooting a 4-over-par score on Day 1 of the Hootie at Bulls Bay Intercollegiate in Awendaw, S.C., Florida was tied for seventh. Sophomore Tyler McCumber led the way for the Gators in the individual competition, turning in a 1-under-par 70, good enough to tie for 10th overall. McCumber played a clean round, only carding one bogey before a double bogey on the 18th put a damper on his performance. “Tyler played a beautiful round,” coach Buddy Alexander said. “He played some of the best golf he’s played all year.”Women’s Tennis
The UF women’s tennis team continued its reign of dominance over 
the Southeastern Conference with a 7-0 victory over Mississippi State at Linder Stadium on Sunday. The No. 1 Gators won all three doubles matches and never looked back, dominating singles play en route to the victory, their 20th straight in regular-season conference play and their 99th consecutive at home, not including the postseason. Sophomore Brittany Borsanyi played for just the second time this spring, stepping in on Court 6 and winning 6-0 after her opponent retired. “On most teams in the country she would have a spot in the lineup,” UF coach Roland Thornqvist said.
back, dominating singles play en route to the victory, their 20th 
Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff
UF SWIMMING
By MELISSA PENDER 
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators took two national 
titles at the 2011 NCAA Men’s 
Swimming and Diving Champion-
ships but still came in fifth place with 291 points.
Senior Brett Fraser finished first 
(1:32.21) in the 200-yard freestyle 
Friday, joining his brother Shaune 
as an NCAA champion. 
Fraser also brought home a title 
in the 800 free relay with sopho-
more Sebastien Rousseau, junior Jeffrey Raymond and senior Conor 
Dwyer. The group finished with a time of 6:14.88.
“My brother always teases me 
about how he won the 200 free, but now, he can’t say anything,” Fraser said. “I’m much more proud of the 
800 free relay title because it was a 
team relay, and that’s what it’s all about.”
“I am so happy for two guys 
like Sebastien and Jeff,” UF coach 
Gregg Troy added. “They were 
essential in our relay success, and the effort they gave [Friday] in the back end of the relay was exactly the type of premier performances we strive for at Florida.”
The Gators 
took home 17 other All-Amer -
ica honors, in-
cluding four in 
the 200 butterfly. 
F r e s h m a n 
Marcin Cieslak captured fourth 
place with a personal-best 1:42.13, ending his first NCAA meet with five All-America honors. Cieslak said it is an honor to place in the finals as a freshman.
“It is very humbling to be an 
All-American my first year in the United States,” said Cieslak, a na-tive of Warsaw, Poland.
Rousseau, a sophomore from 
Cape Town, South Africa, took sev-enth place (1:43.15) in the event. 
Troy said before the meet the 
Gators were among the top three competitors, but he was still 
pleased with his athletes’ perfor -
mances despite the fifth-place fin-
ish.“I’m really proud of how every-
one raced all weekend,” he said. “We raced tough all season long 
and went through some adver -
sity this week, but we still hung in 
there tight. 
“We still feel like we could have 
been a little bit better, but overall, it was a really great season. I can’t say enough about how well the guys did.”   
No. 5 Florida finished just nine 
points behind fourth-place Arizo-na. No. 1 California won the title with 493 points.
Gators win two titles, finish fifth at NCAA meet
 UF WON 10-8 WHILE THE TEAMS 
COMBINED FOR 23 FOULS.
By JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Writer
 
In a matchup of two teams with four loss-
es in American Lacrosse Conference play last 
season, Florida and Ohio State competed as 
if they were mad at somebody.
The squads combined for six yellow 
cards, 23 fouls and an ejection in the second 
half of the Gators’ 10-8 win at Dizney Sta-
dium.
“Things might have gotten a little bit ugly, 
but even last year with them, too, it was kind 
of a neck-and-neck type game,” sophomore midfielder Kitty Cullen said. “We are just 
going to go at each other.”
Behind five goals by Cullen, No. 9 Florida 
(10-1, 1-0 ALC) jumped out on a 7-0 run in the first 25 minutes, but the Buckeyes (5-4, 
0-1 ALC) answered with a five-goal rally to 
make it a 7-5 game two minutes into the sec-
ond half.
That’s when play started to get chippy.Ohio State defender Tayler Kuzma and 
midfielder Natasha Blackburn looked dead set on not letting Cullen score any more 
goals, utilizing a tough fouling strategy once 
the midfielder gained possession.
Kuzma and Blackburn combined for 
three yellow cards, all of which were com-mitted while guarding Cullen. 
Blackburn was eventually ejected follow-ing her second card after her stick struck 
UF’s midfielder in the face.
Although it cost the Buckeyes a player, 
the tactic proved effective later. Cullen scored just once in the second half and was 
issued a yellow card with 7:41 left after she 
thought she was fouled.
“You can’t play to the 
referees, but I thought the officiating was fair,” UF 
coach Amanda O’Leary 
said. “Both ways there was 
some aggressiveness and physicality that may not have been in our previous games 
… but the ultimate is coming out with the 
win today.”
Sophomore Ashley Bruns (one goal) 
would be carded seven seconds after Cullen, putting the Gators down two players for the 
next three minutes.
The Buckeyes ramped up the pressure 
with their player advantage but could only notch one goal for the rest of the game. That 
score came off a Florida turnover inside its 
12-meter arc.
Ten seconds after the OSU goal, sopho-
more Jaime Reeg responded on a fast break 
to push the lead back to two.
Florida was then able to work the clock 
for the next four minutes, securing the vic-
tory and tying its conference win total from 
last season.
“They’re maturing,” O’Leary said. “I told 
them in the locker room that if this was last year, I don’t think we would’ve been able to 
pull out this victory.”Cullen leads Florida over Ohio State in chippy contest
LacrosseFraser
