We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 56 THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
n  Amanda Butler 
(right) came to UF 
hoping to establish 
the Gators as a na -
tional powerhouse, 
but she has yet to 
lead the women’s 
basketball program 
to that level in 
four years.
See Story, Page 17.ENGLEWOOD, N.J. — People might 
have thought they were part of a recipe 
when a northern New Jersey bakery blew its top and shot a cloud of flour over cars and buildings.
Acting Englewood Fire Chief Gerald 
Marion says a pipe became loose at the top of the La Esperanza Bakery silo as flour was being pumped into the building on Tuesday.Some people thought there was an ex-
plosion as flour filled the air and coated several adjacent buildings.
A spokesman for La Esperanza Bakery 
told The Record newspaper that it lost probably less than 10 bags of flour from the 20,000 pounds that were being deliv-ered.
The pipe has been resealed.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSNew Jersey bakery blows top, covers cars and buildings in flour
Thunder
storms
72/50FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 17
Jordan Streetzel / Alligator
Kloster-phobia
Author Chuck Klosterman responds to questions from the audience in the Reitz Union Rion Ball-
room on Wednesday night.  Klosterman is a noted pop-culture writer. He has written for Spin, 
Esquire and GQ and is the author of “Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs” and “Eating the Dinosaur.”
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer 
The Bartram was Marissa 
Gainsburg’s home, her personal 
resort. 
She thought she’d live there 
until graduation, but now she 
and the other 500 residents are scrambling to find somewhere 
else to live.
Gainsburg, a journalism junior 
at UF, doesn’t want to move, but 
she doesn’t have a choice. 
The Bartram told its residents 
Monday that leases would not be renewed, and many of them are set to end Aug. 31.
The complex, which is home to many UF graduate and law stu-
dents, needs repairs to the roof 
and the outsides of buildings be-
cause they were not built proper -
ly, and management doesn’t want 
to do the repairs with people in the buildings.
“We’re still in a state of dis-
belief,” Gainsburg said. “I’m re-ally frustrated, but more than anything I’m sad. I don’t want to 
leave The Bartram.”
The news comes as a byprod-
uct of a lawsuit The Bartram filed 
against the construction company that built the complex. 
The apartment management 
has decided it will not wait un-til the lawsuit is finished to start repairs, but is not known when 
construction will start or end.
Gainsburg said she wishes she 
was warned earlier in the semes-
ter to sign a lease elsewhere.
But she said there are other 
people in a worse situation, in-cluding students who work in the management office.
“You have to look at it this 
way: These people are out of a job now,” she said. “There are fami-Complex to boot residents
By CLAIRE MILLER
Alligator Contributing Writer
A device that connects the world could in fact be damag-
ing to our health. 
A recent study from the National Institutes of Health re-
ported that low levels of radiation emitted from cellphones 
are shown to affect the brain.
The research, published in The Journal of American Med-
ical Association, demonstrated that weak radio-frequency 
signals from cellphones can alter brain activity. It shows a 7 percent increase of brain activity, nearest to where the phone antenna is located.
However, researchers still are uncertain if 
the effects are harmful.
Professor Emeritus of neuroscience Christiana Leonard 
said it’s difficult to imagine what the short- and long-term effects are. 
“The report is cause for concern, given the industry’s re-
peated assurances that there are no effects,” Leonard said.  
She suggests animal studies should be used to investigate 
whether permanent tissue characteristics can be seen after long-term use and whether the two are proportional.Cellphones may 
be a health risk
STATE
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
When talk turns to discrimina-
tion, state Rep. Charles Chestnut IV 
is following Gainesville’s lead.
The Democratic representative 
from Gainesville has announced his 
plans to co-sponsor a bill that would establish a statewide anti-discrimi-nation policy in which people could not be mistreated based on their sex-ual orientation or gender identity.
Gainesville passed a similar city 
ordinance in 2009 that included transgender people among those 
protected from discrimination in 
employment, housing and other arenas.  
“In the city of Gainesville, I’m 
protected,” said Mallory Wells, public policy director for Equality 
Florida, a state advocacy group for 
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgen-der people. “I’m lucky that I live in Gainesville, but I shouldn’t have to be lucky. I should be protected al-
ways.”
Equality Flor -
ida helped draft the legislation, 
which is called the 
Florida Competi-tive Workforce Act, Wells said. In the Florida House of Representa-
tives, it is known as House Bill 361 and is in the Business and Consum-er Affairs Subcommittee.
In the state Senate, it is called Chestnut sponsors 
gay rights legislationThe Bartram needs repairs
PublicHealth
Chestnut
SEE APARTMENT, PAGE 4
SEE CHESTNUT, PAGE 4“I’m really frustrated, but 
more than anything I’m 
sad. I don’t want to leave 
The Bartram.”
Marissa Gainsburg
resident at The BartramNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 56 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editors Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
  Max Reed, mreed@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett, 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,    
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Joseph Bryant, 
  Serina Braddock, Brandon Davis, 
  Courtney McCalden, Julian Pothemont,   
  Ally Russo
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerk Ashley Flattery   
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Zachary Frost,
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Campus Earth Day Celebration
Friday, 11:30 a.m.
Plaza of the Americas
Come hear UF President 
Bernie Machen’s annual State of Sustainability address as well as the presentation of the Sustainable Solutions 
Awards. 
Learn more about sustain-ability on campus. For more information, please visit 
www.sustainable.ufl.edu/
EarthDay.
Dance Marathon 2011
Saturday, 11:30 a.m.Stephen C. O’Connell Center
Dance Marathon is finally 
here. Eight hundred dancers will stay awake and on their feet for 26.2 hours to raise money for the Children’s 
Miracle Network at Shands 
Children’s Hospital. The event concludes  Sunday at 2 p.m. with the closing cer -
emony. For more information, visit floridadm.org. 
Upstart
Saturday, 1 p.m.
Reitz Union Auditorium
Instructors from the New York Film Academy will be visiting UF for a free five-hour workshop. The event is 
open to all levels of experi-
ence. Learn about the filmmaking process from these top pro-
fessionals.
Fick CD Release Show
Saturday, 10 p.m.
1982 Baropen. All students are en-
couraged to apply. Please 
visit sg.ufl.edu/applynow to launch your involve-ment in next year’s Student 
Government. If you have any 
questions, please come to the SG Office in Room 305 of the Reitz Union or call 352-392-1665.
Edible Book Contest
April 7In front of Library WestPrizes will be given in five categories. See details and 
entry form at www.uflib.ufl.
edu/readathon.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your sub-missions after above events. 
Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.Local band Fick will be releasing their new EP, 
Futureshock, at 1982. They will be joined by Eight Track Automatic, Far 
Away Planes and Black Box 
Jungle. $6 cover charge, $8 for under 21.
African Student Union 
ShowcaseSaturday, 7:30 p.m.Reitz Union Grand Ballroom  
It is free and open to the public. This event show-cases African culture from various regions of the 
continent. There will be a 
fashion show, dancing, sto-rytelling, free African food and much more. 
University Gospel 
Choir Spring Gospel 
Extravaganza Concert
Sunday, 7:30 p.m.University Auditorium
Join the University Gospel 
Choir for the Annual Spring Gospel Extravaganza. There will be special
guests such as the UCF 
Gospel Choir, the 13th Disciple and many more. 
Student Government is ac-
cepting applicationsApplications for the 2011-2012 Student Government 
Executive Branch are now FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
SUNNY
86/62SUNNY
83/58SUNNY
83/55SUNNY
79/56THUNDER
STORMS
72/50
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
The Bartram apartment complex, located at 2337 SW Archer Rd., on Wednesday afternoon. The com-
plex has stopped renewing leases to empty the buildings for roof repairs.
STATE
 THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — State pris-
ons in an 18-county area of South 
Florida would be turned over to private companies under the state 
Senate’s proposed budget bill — if 
the companies want them.
That’s the rub, Sen. Mike Fasa-
no said Tuesday.
The New Port Richey Repub-
lican, who chairs a subcommittee overseeing prison spending, said a major prison company has told 
him that it doesn’t intend to bid.
“They told me it’s too costly to take over the existing prisons,” said Fasano, who is now locked in 
a high-states dispute over the issue with Budget Committee Chairman JD Alexander. The budget propos-
al awaits final approval in Alexan-
der’s committee.
Fasano is philosophically op-
posed to privatizing public safety services but said he’s also worried 
companies will “cherry pick” the 
best and newest prisons and leave older ones that cost more to main-tain and operate in the public sec-tor.
Fasano’s panel proposed a prison budget without the privati-
zation element, but Alexander uni-
laterally added it to the proposed 
$69.8 billion 
spending bill as 
a cost-cutting 
measure before it was published Monday.
“ C e r t a i n l y 
it’s saving sub-stantial sums of 
money and in many cases is very successful, other cases less so,” Al-exander said. “Private folks have 
shown the ability to adapt better in some situations, sometimes not.”
Six Florida prisons are current-
ly operated by three private com -
panies.
“I don’t believe that private is 
always better than public,” Alex-
ander said, but he added that hav-ing both would provide a good measuring stick. He expects to cut spending by at least 7 percent at 
each prison that is privatized.
Alexander, R-Lake Wales, said 
he chose South Florida because it 
has more large population centers that can better handle disruptions 
in employment. Prisons in rural ar -eas often are the major employer in their communities.
Fasano said he will try to get 
the privatization provision pulled 
out of the appropriations bill when 
the Budget Committee considers 
it Thursday, but it’ll be difficult to oppose the chairman.
“Whether I have the votes or 
not I don’t know,” Fasano said. “I 
have to at least stay consistent with 
my beliefs.”
The prison privatization plan 
isn’t part of a proposed House budget that will be heard in com -
mittee on Wednesday.
More prison privatization in Florida Senate budget
Fasano
The complex has about 500 residents
lies that live at the Bartram who have little kids who 
now have to find another place, too.”
Apartment management could not confirm 
whether any Bartram employees will lose their jobs.
Jonathan Rodriguez doesn’t know where he and 
his dogs will go.
Many people who lived at The Bartram were dog 
lovers, said Rodriguez, a biology sophomore at UF. 
There is a dog park at the complex where his 
dogs, Farah and Aaralyn, could run around.
He said he is upset with the corporate manage-
ment.
“How do you build a place and not check if it’s 
up to regulation?” he said.Rodriguez and his sister renewed their lease ear -
lier in the year. 
It expires in January, and the apartment manage-
ment promised to make accommodations for them and any other resident whose lease expires after the 
summer.
“Hopefully that means they’ll find us an apart-
ment,” he said.
Gainsburg is on a waiting list for the nearby 
Wildflower Apartments, but she said she prob-ably won’t find as nice of a place for the same $620 
monthly rent.
She said her rent was a great deal for the features 
it included, like granite countertops, a tranquility 
garden and a 24-hour gym.
“It’s too good to be true,” she said. “Of course 
there’s a problem.”APARTMENTS , from page 1
By NATALIE TEER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Although Gainesville is 3,000 miles away from the west 
coast, where radiation is expected to first make landfall in the 
continental U.S., local health food stores are sold out of potas-sium iodide.  
Health officials say if radiation were to reach the U.S., peo-
ple should consume this product to protect their thyroids from radiation. 
Radioactive iodine may be released into the air after a radio-
logical or nuclear disaster. The thyroid gland cannot tell the dif-ference between stable and radioactive iodine and will absorb either.  If someone takes potassium iodide, his or her thyroid gland will become full of stable iodine. 
This blocks the radioactive iodine from entering the thy-
roid but only lasts for 24 hours before another dose needs to 
be taken.
Sunflower Health Foods, 87 SW 34th St., has just started re-
plenishing its potassium iodide stock. 
“When the tsunami first hit, we were 
wiped clean, and so were our distributors,” 
said Rich Alexander, a Sunflower employee.
Alexander’s customers aren’t buying the 
product for themselves.  Many are sending it to their family and friends in California.  
“I had one woman come in, put her hand behind the bottles 
and rake all of them into her shopping basket,” he said.
Alexander said the woman has family members living on 
the west coast who haven’t been able to find potassium iodide in any form. 
Mother Earth Market, located at 521 NW 13th St. and 1237 
NW 76th Blvd., has been sold out of the product for two weeks.  The location on 13th Street has a shelf full of special orders that are being held in the back for specific customers.  The supple-
ment specialist at the location on 76th Street said her shelves 
were empty as well, even though she had just received a ship-ment.  
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is urging 
Americans not to begin ingesting potassium iodide unless in-structed to do so by emergency management officials or public health officials. Radiation clears 
local iodide stock
There are 55 local policies in Florida prohibiting sexual discrimination
Senate Bill 346 and is in the Judiciary Committee. 
The House version of the bill is authored by state Rep. Scott 
Randolph, a Democrat from Orlando, while the Senate version 
is by state Sen. Nan Rich, a Democrat from Weston.
The bill isn’t a new idea for Floridians. Fifty-five local poli-
cies have been passed in the state prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity , including Gainesville, according to Equality Florida’s “Winning Equal-ity” pamphlet about the organization and its goals. “Most people tell you it’s a really common-sense piece of 
legislation, and individual legislators do have concerns but 
we’re not seeing widespread opposition to it,” Wells said.
Most of legislators’ concerns are economic rather than reli-
gious, she said. 
Kenneth Kidd, an associate professor in the 
UF English department with expertise in lesbian 
and gay studies, said in an email interview that 
the bill should find support among Democrats and representa-tives from urban areas such as Orlando and Miami. 
He is unsure how much opposition it will face. Much of it depends on how the bill is perceived by legislators and the public. 
“In the past, even anti-discrimination legislation has been 
misrepresented as ‘special interest’ or ‘gay advocacy’ rather than an attempt to ensure that LGBTQ citizens can’t be fired for being gay… so I’m always cautious,” he said. 
Kidd said he hopes lawmakers understand that they have 
an obligation to democracy and to equal and fair treatment of citizens when considering anti-discrimination bills.
Chestnut could not be reached for comment as he was in 
legislative session.CHESTNUT , from page 1NewsNational
NewsLocalTHURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer
Chuck Klosterman is not the 
average public speaker.
Once when giving a book read-
ing, his fans came to the event 
early. Instead of drinking coffee while they waited, they dropped acid.
“I guess I’m not a literary au-
thor,” he said. “I bet this wouldn’t happen to Salman Rushdie.” He treated the 100 in atten-
dance to a candid and open dis-cussion about everything from internships with Charlie Sheen to reality versus “realness” to how 
fun it is to be a journalist.
Though Klosterman has writ-
ten for publications such as Spin, 
Esquire and GQ, he’s most fa-mous for his books, such as “Sex, 
Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs” and 
“Eating the Dinosaur,” where he writes about popular culture, music, film, sports and the gen-
eral “soundtrack to being alive.”
K l o s t e r m a n 
began his pre-
sentation by 
treating the 
audience to a live reading of something he just wrote about 
reality and how 
one’s perception of it is affected.
In the piece, he argued that commercials are actually a good 
thing while watching sports on 
television, used Ricky Gervais’ 
insulting Golden Globe jokes as a means to discuss differing lev-els of reality and perception, and 
joked about consumers’ irrational 
beliefs that they have a personal effect on televised games they watch at home based on whether they stand up to cheer.
After the reading, he took 
questions from the audience and spoke about his thoughts on the new Radiohead album, Bill Sim-mons of ESPN and Snooki selling pistachios.
“It doesn’t really bother me at 
all,” he said. “I mean, can Snooki 
sell out?”
Justin Plemmons, 20, said he 
liked what Klosterman had to say, 
though it wasn’t what he expected.  
“I thought a lot more than I 
thought I would,” he said. “He 
doesn’t think like a 38 year old ... I think he’d be annoying to his kids.” 
Klosterman was paid $10,000 
for his appearance.
Pop culture writer Klosterman speaks to students
 THE EVENT STARTS AT 7:30 P.M.
By COURTNEY STEINBERG
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The African Student Union will host the 
39th annual showcase Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in 
the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.The evening will feature a variety of per -
formances, including African dancers, a play, 
storytellers, a fashion show and a choir.
This year, the show will feature live music 
and spotlight local Africans who have made a 
difference in their communities.
“The songs they play are songs that most of 
our parents listened to when they were grow-ing up, so I want to see how people react,” said ASU President Hanns Frimpong.
The ASU will provide free, authentic Af-
rican food. Audience members also can win 
prizes if they correctly answer trivia questions about African countries.
Two former ASU presidents, 
Rilwan Ajayi and African artist Conphidance, will co-host the event.Because the show is on campus for the first 
time in its history, Ajayi said it will impact stu-
dents more this year. 
“I’m excited for the Student Body to get a 
dose of a mini world tour of the continent of 
Africa,” he said.
“People need to know that there’s more to 
the country of Africa than just what people see on TV .”African Student Union to host annual showcase Saturday
OnCampu sKlosterman
About 100 attended the event on campusThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Are you 
religious?40% YES60% NO
80 TOTAL VOTESWednesday’s question: Do you support U.S. action in Libya after Obama’s Monday night speech?Supersize Lawsuit
In case you haven’t 
heard, our favorite ob-noxiously large super -
market chain is pleading its case in front of the U.S. Supreme Court as it tries to avoid the largest job bias 
class action lawsuit ever. 
We don’t know yet if Wal-mart actually will go to trial over claims of sexism on the job, but we do know the 
court is split along gender 
and there are an incredible number of variables to keep in mind when considering a 
lawsuit with some 1.6 mil-
lion people involved.
We hate to say it, but Jus-
tice Antonin Scalia made a point Wednesday when he 
pointed out that Walmart 
can’t be held accountable for the actions of rogue managers who refused to 
promote women. 
Is the problem rooted in 
corporate culture or in in-
dividual mindsets? Can a company be held liable for the way some of it employ-ees act? 
The women’s attorney 
brought up another ques-tion — this time about the company’s perception of 
women as less aggressive 
in their jobs. 
According to the attor -
ney, this idea led to fewer women being given man-
agement positions, but 
we’re skeptical the corpo-rate training was the only reason. A plethora of ob-
stacles exist when moving 
up with an organization, and to place the blame for a disparity in the ratio of men to women squarely on the 
company’s shoulders seems 
a little ridiculous. We’re aware sexism is alive and well, but the women’s at-
torney will have to present 
better evidence to convince us of Walmart’s wrongdo-ing.Young Gun
Rubio returns to spotlight, 
demands reforms
Remember Marco Rubio? 
For a rising Republican star, he has kept quiet 
since arriving in Washington — until this week.
After writing an op-ed for Wednesday’s issue of the Wall 
Street Journal, he’s come out with guns blazing on raising the national debt ceiling. Rubio says his vote is contingent on the government’s efforts to tackle larger issues, such as 
long-term debt and the reformation of Medicare and Social 
Security. Considering the nation may hit the ceiling within the next month, his demands seem unreasonable. But, of course, that’s why his base backed him. He may have GOP support, but Rubio is no moderate out to play nice. 
We respect the will to stand for what he believes, but we 
would like to know what he would change that wouldn’t lose him his job. Changing Medicare is likely to spell po-litical suicide for the Florida senator. He may even tick off 
seniors in the short term: If the debt tops out without ris-
ing the ceiling, Social Security and Medicare checks could be coming in the mail later than planned. We also question Rubio’s priorities. 
As of now, we could use a temporary solution as we 
cope with the larger and underlying issues at hand one at a time. Rubio’s biting off more than he can chew, but we’ll give him some credit for trying to make Congress address entitlement funds, a topic that it’s been dodging for years. 
All in due time.
Scott for cronies, not average Floridian
I seem to be in fair company with writing this article, 
as a recent poll showed that Gov. Rick Scott has an approval rating of just 32 percent. On an assortment 
of issues from education funding to reductions in state workers’ salaries, the governor simply is in the wrong. 
With everyone from janitors to judges receiving pay 
cuts, the governor decided that 10 new department heads warranted pay raises of $20,000, from the Department of Business and Professional Regulation to the Department of Health. All the while, these departments face position cuts of 115 and 880, respectively. 
It appears the only people Scott talked about who will 
do more with less will be the teachers because he and the state legislature worked in collusion to pass the merit-pay plan last week. 
The merit-pay plan is flawed and simply will reward 
teachers for teaching in areas with students of higher so-
cioeconomic status and punish those who teach students 
of lower socioeconomic standings. The nonpartisan Urban Institute concluded the positive effects of merit pay are short-lived. “By and large, the school districts we exam-ined did not succeed at implementing lasting, effective, monetary or non-monetary incentive plans.” However, the study did conclude that an increase in divisiveness and decrease in morale harmed the teachers significantly. Even in the private sector, the trend has gone from merit-based pay earlier in the decade to a set salary schedule.
Another interesting item Scott is pushing for is manda-
tory drug testing for welfare recipients and random drug tests on state employees. Although these plans sound great on paper, the governor has not explained who is go-ing to pay for the drug testing of state employees. (How-ever, cabinet members and the state legislature are ex-empt!) The federal government outlines that the need for random drug testing is neces-sary only in cases where public safety is the No. 1 priority, such as for drivers. The state already had some trouble for a legisla-tion that was struck down in 2004. With regards to the testing of welfare recipients, a Michigan court ruled that testing an indi-
vidual without reason for suspicion violates the Fourth Amendment. 
It’s noteworthy that Scott recently had shares in an ur -
gent care company he founded named Solantic. One of Solantic’s specialties is drug testing, and the governor’s motion to remove a conflict of interest was to transfer his shares to his wife. 
However, the most interesting part of this entire situ-
ation has to be that while Rick Scott is pushing for drug testing welfare recipients, he failed to create a prescrip-tion-drug monitoring program that private companies donated to fund, citing it was an intrusion on privacy. The reality is the prescription abuse in Florida is incompara-ble to any other state, as doctors in Florida prescribe 10 times more oxycodone pills than every other state in the country combined, according to the Drug Enforcement Agency. However, maybe it’s how Scott plans to create tourism jobs, because people from as far away as Tennes-see and Texas flock to the state to purchase pills.
It’s quite troubling to see that Scott claims to be a man 
of the people and supportive of smaller government when all visible so far are kickbacks for his cronies borne on the backs of students, teachers and the working man. 
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering 
major. His column appears on Thursdays.
Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.org
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
By now, everyone and their mothers have heard of Re-
becca Black. She exploded onto the internet two weeks ago with her song “Friday” and its accompanying 
video.
Many have already dubbed it the worst pop song of all 
time and for good reason. Black’s voice sounds like a de-mon straight out of auto-tune hell. The lyrics include such poetic gems as, “Yesterday was Thursday, Thursday. Today is Friday, Friday,” and the video seems like a cheesy parody of itself.
Black’s breakout success represents everything that is 
wrong with the modern recording industry.
Oh, and don’t forget the awkwardly placed rap portion in 
the middle with a guy talking about swerving around school 
buses. Who is this guy, and isn’t he a bit old to be going to 
parties with 13-year-olds? He has a moustache.
The song’s become a viral car crash — awful to listen to 
but impossible to turn away from. It’s garnered 61 million views (and counting) on YouTube, 37,000 downloads on iTunes and has already been covered by the Jonas Brothers.
It’s also baffled the music media, leaving some to wonder 
if it was all actually some kind of Borat-esque joke criticiz-ing the recording industry itself. Rolling Stone called it “an 
unintentional parody of modern pop,” while Time maga-
zine deemed it “a whole new level of bad.” Other criticisms weren’t so polite — one YouTube comment urged Black to “go cut yourself and die.”
Ouch, that’s painful to hear. Then again, though, so is the 
song.
Black has taken a lot of criticism from, well, practically everybody over the song, and while some of it might be deserved, a lot of it seems misdirected.
For instance, she didn’t write the 
song. In fact, she had very little to do with its final outcome 
at all. Most of that is the result of Ark Music Factory, a record 
label of sorts, which Black’s mother paid $2,000 in exchange for the recording and video of one of two songs.
Black chose “Friday” because, as she told The Daily 
Beast, “The other song was about adult love — I haven’t ex-perienced that yet.”
She talked about the background of the song on “Good 
Morning America,” where, far from the anti-Christ of music some have pinned her as, she actually comes off as a sweet 
kid only in a little over her head.
When one critic complained, “I hate her voice. It’s go-
ing to be stuck in my head forever,” Black responded with 
a childish grin. “Well, I think that’s an accomplishment, you know?” she said.
“Even if someone doesn’t like it, it’s still stuck in their 
head. That’s the point of it, a catchy song.”
If anyone deserves criticism for this whole debacle, it’s 
Black’s mother and the producers. Anyone who would pay 
$2,000 for her daughter to have a record deal should have 
her head checked.
And any songwriter who would write a song about 
whether to sit in the front or backseat should have his or her fingers chopped off to protect the world from anymore aural assaults.
Black has learned a few important lessons from her 15 minutes of fame — lessons all of us in our look-at-me culture would be wise to heed.
For one, when out for the public to see, expect some 
amount of criticism in return. This is especially true in the world of music, in which people’s tastes and views are as 
personal as religion.
That’s part of the reason for the ferociousness of the back-
lash. Music is an intimate thing for many people. Right or 
wrong, they take music this bad as a personal insult.
For them, “Friday” sums up everything wrong with to-
day’s music industry in a single, four-minute sample.
An even broader lesson, though, is this – when we seek 
out fame, sometimes we find it, but not for the reasons we want. It’s a lesson many reality TV stars have learned the 
hard way: It’s easier to become famous for something bad 
than something good. In the quest for stardom, overnight popularity is more often found with infamy than dignity.
Luckily for Black, the Internet has the attention span of 
a hyperactive 12-year-old on a sugar high. Things are for -
gotten as quickly as they blow up, so Black will fade away pretty soon, which is probably best if she ever wants to be a serious singer.
Maybe she can try again in a few years, this time with 
decent producers and a song that doesn’t involve singing the days of the week.
Until then, she should probably just laugh along with the 
crowd.
After all, there’s a certain amount of pride in having sung 
one of the worst pop songs ever.
The Daily Athenaeum, West Virginia U. via UWIRERebecca Black is on her way to be the worst pop singer in historyUWire
Jarrod Barry
UWiretheAvenue         thursday, march 31, 2011
ListTheGet a jumpstart on spring clean-
ing with Fifth Avenue.
Learn about the new website 
http://worthlessgators.com.Get ready to laugh: Local com-
edy troupe Ugly Step Children makes its debut this week.ONLINE:INSIDE:
PG 9: If you’ve had it with 
dropped calls and poor cell-phone reception, you’re prob-ably not the only one. Read about a recent report that shows cellphone reception is getting worse.Also, if you think TV’s gone down the tube since the ’90s, think again: Nickelodeon announced it’s bringing back old programs like “All That” and “Rugrats.”PG 10: See how you can get a taste of not only a good drink at local downtown bars but also a taste of local culture. PG 11: Learn about tai chi ch-uan the last installment of the Avenue’s Gainesville Medita-tion Center Guide.
by LAUREN GOLDLISTEN: “ Friday” 
by Rebecca Black
If you don’t want to spend 99 cents down-
loading it, check it out on YouTube. Trust us: It’s too funny not to listen to. 
SEE: Source Code 
Jake Gyllenhaal stars in this action thriller as a decorated soldier given the opportunity to change the past. He goes back in time again and again to find the bomber of a Chicago train in eight minutes. 
WATCH: “ Chaos” series premiere, 
8 p.m. Friday on CBS  
Looking for a new program? Try “Chaos,” a show about CIA agent spies defying the tight ropes of government control. “Rush Hour” Pro-ducer Brett Ratner directed the pilot, mean-ing the comedic drama is sure to be a hit.
GO: Dance Marathon, 11:20 a.m. 
Saturday to 2:12 p.m. Sunday
Come watch hundreds of dancers stay stand-ing for the Children’s Miracle Network in the O’Connell Center this weekend. Stop by to get inspired, see the events or donate to the cause.Study: Self-compassion could boost grades
By SHELBY WEBB
avenue contributing writer
What do you do when you fail a midterm? 
Some say they criticize themselves for mistakes 
they made, and some say they were lazy. But new 
research is leading psychiatrists to urge people to practice a new wave of thinking: self-compas-sion.
Self-compassion is the ability to be kind to 
and understanding of oneself, even in the face of personal failure. When people accept the reality that they are human and couple that with self-sympathy and kindness, they have high levels of 
self-compassion.
According to new research, self-compassion 
isn’t just a feel-good exercise. People who score 
high in this trait are less depressed and anxious, and they may be better at achieving goals like kicking a bad habit or acing a test.
Having high self-compassion can also help one 
cope with stress more effectively. One study, “Self-compassion, Achievement Goals, and Coping with 
Academic Failure,”  analyzed how students at the 
University of Texas dealt with disappointment af-ter they failed their midterm exams.“The students who scored higher in self-com-
passion weren’t so derailed by the experience,” said Dr. Kristin Neff, who authored the study. “When you’re really stressed you tend to be harsh-er on yourself out of habit, when you should actu -
ally be kindest to yourself during those stressful situations,” she said.
Neff, who is also an assistant professor at the 
University of Texas, believes low self-compassion can also hinder one’s academic career because 
it coincides with a heightened fear of failure. 
“You’re not going to take 
that interesting course if you think you’re going to fail, or maybe you’ll put off studying till the last minute so you’ll have an excuse for failing,” Neff said. 
“It can be really damaging in terms of academic 
motivation if you really don’t give yourself the sup-
port you need to take risks in learning.”
Thinking positively can also help students 
ease another serious problem of procrastination, said Tina Long, a health promotion specialist at GatorWell.
“Procrastination for most students is not nec-essarily [stressful] because they’re short on time,” 
Long said. “It’s because it’s such a daunting task, 
and we talked ourselves into studying or working by being horrible to ourselves.” 
Instead of beating yourself up after a slip-up, 
Long advises doing something enjoyable and re -
juvenating.
“Then figure out how you can plan differently 
and stick to that plan so hopefully you’ll do better the next time,” Long said. 
Despite this advice, some students believe 
self-criticism is the only way to learn from mis-takes.
“When I fail I usually beat myself up because I 
probably didn’t study the right way or didn’t work hard enough,” said Justin Zacharias, a 20-year-old UF student.
Although he believes he’d be less stressed if 
he stopped criticizing himself after making mis-
takes, Zacharias said he believes his performance 
would suffer.
“It can’t be that important to you if you’re not 
beating yourself up over it,” he said.
If you want to learn more about self-compas-
sion or test your self-compassion levels, visit http://self-compassion.org.Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
To make yourself, don’t break yourself:
Although many may be tempted to beat themselves up after they believe they’ve failed at something, a new 
study indicates that showing yourself a little love after experiencing a supposed personal failure could be 
more beneficial in the long run.  (Above) Will Love, 21 and a sophomore sports management major at Santa Fe 
College, poses for a picture.
give ‘you’ a breakthursday, march 31, 2011  u ALLIGATOR, 9
technology
New r eport shows cellphone reception getting worse 
  By BRITTANY BRAVE
 avenue writer
 
  Hello, can you hear me now?
  If there’s a roof, four walls and a ﬂ  oor nearby, 
you probably can’t. 
  After reaching its peak performance between 
2003 and 2009, the quality of cellphone recep-
tion has worsened within the last six months, ac-
cording to J.D. Power and Associates.
  The culprit is an increase in indoor calls and 
cellphone trafﬁ  c, said Kirk Parsons, senior direc-tor of wireless services with J.D. Power and Asso-ciates, a global marketing information ﬁ  rm.
  The report, called “The 2000 Wireless Quote 
Quality Performance Study Line One,” covered 27 U.S. regions and recorded cell phone quality 
based on the frequency of problem incidents for 
every 100 calls.  According to a New York Times article, Wash-
ington, D.C., was ranked the most problematic with 18 incidents for every 100 calls made. Pitts-
burgh and Cincinnati were about three times 
better with the best performance in the nation.
   Florida cities, such as Tampa and Miami, 
scored eight and 14 respectively, Parsons said. 
  People are changing calling patterns and 
communicating more regularly, and that in-crease has reduced the likelihood of clear re-ception, Parsons said.   With applications and text messaging, consumers are playing with new data in different places, he added.
  Florida, in particular, is prone to the “Leaves 
Effect,” where the increase of plant and leaf growth interferes with cellphone reception. It’s  
also prone to the “Usage Effect,” where cell-
phone activity reaches an all-time high due to things like weather extremities, causing recep-tion to suffer.
  The more problems people experience, the 
less happy they are, Parsons said. 
  “And the more likely they are to spend less 
money and switch their carriers,” he added.
  As AT&T and T-Mobile prepare to join forces, 
Parsons said time will decide how successful the merger is. The union will require a lot of en-
gineering, and how customers will be affected 
could depend on how well the companies inte-grate their software and technology.
  Stacey Harth, spokeswoman for AT&T, said 
the merger could beneﬁ  t customers by providing them with enhanced and extended coverage. 
  Before, AT&T covered 80 percent of U.S. cell-
phones, Harth said. Its convergence with T-Mo-
bile will increase that ﬁ  gure to 95 percent by the 
end of 2013, with smaller cities and rural areas being the most affected by the addition.   In 2010, AT&T added more than 500 cell 
sites to North Florida, 32 of which were installed in Alachua County. The cell sites increase recep-
tion capacity for AT&T users, and Harth said, “it’s 
like adding an extra lane to a busy highway for trafﬁ  c.”
    Verizon Wireless has consistently reported 
the lowest number of problem incidents, Par-
sons said, but that should not excuse customers 
from doing  research.
  When making a purchase, he said consum-
ers need to consider more than the company: Location, price, competition and how they plan to use their phone in everyday life should also factor into to their decision.
  “Be an educated consumer and do your 
homework,” he said. “There is variation in the markets where you’re at and where you live, so make an educated decision.” 
Nick to revive ‘All That,’ ‘Rocket Power’ in the fall 
  By KELLY RICHARD
 avenue contributing writer 
  
 From 1996 to 2000, children and teens alike watched Nickel-
odeon’s Kenan and Kel concoct hare-brained schemes, while Kel 
harbored an undying affection for a particular carbonated bever-age. 
  Students in college today watched this show and others on Nick 
in the ’90s, including “All That,” “The Adventures of Pete & Pete,” “The Amanda Show,” “Clarissa Explains it All,” “Rocket Power,” “Rugrats” and “Salute Your Shorts.”
  Due to popular demand and more than 9 million Facebook fans 
of ‘90s Nick shows, the network will launch a programming block, dubbed “The ’90s Are All That!,” on TeenNick, beginning this fall and running from midnight to 2 a.m.
  “There is an entire generation of young people who literally grew 
up on these great 1990s series, and many of them have been vo-
cal about wanting to see and experience these shows again,” Keith Dawkins, senior vice president, general manager of Nicktoons and TeenNick, said in a press release.
  These shows are being aimed at 20-somethings — the largest 
part of the population with disposable incomes, which advertisers 
love, said David Painter, instructor of the UF course TV & American Society.
  “I think they’ll be extremely popular,” Painter 
said. 
    Ashley-Marie Bodor, a Santa Fe College 
sophomore, said she used to enjoy “All That,” 
“The Amanda Show,” “Kenan & Kel” and “Ru-
grats.”
  “I like the fact that the ‘Rugrats’ never aged,” 
she said.
  Although she would like to see Tommy and Chuckie on an ad-
venture together again, she said she wouldn’t pay for it, as many of the shows are available online and on Netﬂ  ix.
  However, Painter said, whether airing via TeenNick or streaming online, Nickelodeon will still make money because it won’t have to 
pay for syndication rights.
  “Like Nick at Nite, it’s very inexpensive because they already 
own the shows,” Painter said.
  Jackie Moon, a UF civil engineering senior, doesn’t have the 
TeenNick channel, and she said she wouldn’t pay to add it just to 
watch childhood shows again.   
She said she’s watched shows from her youth on the Disney 
Channel, but they aren’t entertaining to her now that she’s an adult.
    “‘Clarissa Explains It All’ was the only show my sister and I 
agreed on as kids,” Moon said.
  Moon most remembers the “Secret Spot” episode of “Rocket 
Power,” where “shoobies,” tourists sporting shoes on the beach, invade and kick sand into potato salad.
  It is normal for generations to reminisce about their childhood, 
Painter said.
  ”It’s a feeling of nostalgia,” he said. 
   I  often use this column as a platform to rant about recent gam-
ing news, and for that I am truly sorry. This is why you never should give a weekly column to a person who shouts his opin-
ions at the TV. That being said, there has been a surplus of news in the gaming industry lately, and it’s important to be up-to-date on the often ridiculous headlines journalists use. Here’s some of the most interesting industry news:
w  Sony sues hacker, kicks sand in his face
  Have you hacked your PS3 recently? Or do you perhaps own a 
jail-broken iPhone? If so, Sony may be out to get you. The multina-tional tech company has sued a hacker named GeoHot, a minor Internet celebrity, for posting the software necessary to jailbreak an iPhone and a PS3. GeoHot, whose real name is George Hotz, posted the root key for the console in January, which would allow the user to run his or her own software, play pirated games and generally have complete control over the system. If Sony wins the suit, it could set a precedent potentially allowing the prosecution of anyone who hacks his or her phone or system, regard-less of whether it’s legally bought. 
  wSony challenges Apple, announces 
hybrid smart phone/gaming system
  In other Sony news, the company an-
nounced in February the arrival of the Ve-rizon-exclusive Xperia PLAY, a “PlayStation Certiﬁ  ed” smart phone that would have a slide-out controller. The controller is simi-
lar to the PlayStation DualShock, sporting two analog touch pads, a D-Pad and the four shape-button scheme. With 50 games esti-mated for the phone’s launch and other future titles announced, (including “Dungeon Defenders,” made by Gainesville’s very own Trendy Entertainment), the company seems serious about con-tending with the iPhone. A quick question to readers: Who remem-bers the N-Gage? It was a cross between a phone and a Game Boy Advance, made by Nokia and pretty much the most stupid thing ever made. Could this phone share the same fate?
w  Ubisoft looking to hire excessive fan boy of “Assassin’s 
Creed” 
  If you happen to be an English major and know about the “As-
sassin’s Creed” series, the job of a lifetime may await you. Ubisoft Montreal is looking to its fan base to hire a writer who can compile the game’s universe into an encyclopedia for the series. The ency-clopedia would cover all iterations of the franchise, including the games, books, comics and an animated short ﬁ  lm. The post on Ubisoft’s blog, http://ubiworkshop.com, indicates this is a legiti-mate job offer that pays real money (history junkies should ask to be paid in Florins), and anyone can send in submissions highlight-ing his or her writing skills.  10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, march 31, 2011
Gamer Bait
   I  
often use this column as a platform to rant about recent gam-
   I  
often use this column as a platform to rant about recent gam-
   I  
Gamer Bait
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistCatching up on recent gaming news 
Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
UF sophomore Sonya 
Matejko goes for a 
relaxed, girly look in her 
subtle ﬂ  oral print top and 
tailored denim shorts.  
Although her shirt is from 
Urban Outﬁ  tters, this 
advertising major mostly 
shops at Express, her 
favorite store.
UF advertising 
sophomore Luan Chang 
stands out with his 
graphic T-shirt, cuffed 
khakis, and lace-up 
boots.  A self-proclaimed 
pragmatist, he wears just 
about the same type of 
outﬁ  t every day. “It makes 
getting dressed a lot less 
complicated,” he said.For the latest frills, ﬂ  air and every-
thing fashion, check out what our 
lens caught this week. 
Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
UF English sophomore 
Katherine Thanos looks 
put-together with her high- 
waisted shorts, ﬂ  oral top, 
belt, bag and watch.  She 
doesn’t discriminate when 
it comes to shopping and 
considers her personal 
style an eclectic mix of 
whatever catches her eye.  
Dana Burke / Alligator StaffUF grad aims to inspire with new book 
      Author Steven D. Cohen isn’t satisﬁ  ed enough with you 
buying his new book, “Lessons From The Podium: Public Speaking as a Leadership Art.”
  No: Cohen, a 2004 UF alumnus, is on a mission not only to 
inspire you with this slim volume but also to endow you with 
the same ability to “change hearts and change minds.”
  “Every student and professional has a passion, and some-
times that passion is hidden,” he said. “What I want to do [with 
this book] is provide them the opportunity to make their pas-sions come alive.”
  The work Cohen has penned is a quick read (it’s a little 
more than 100 pages long), but the brevity of the text ensures a more direct and approachable message. 
  Cohen understands that his audience, students and young 
professionals, often are crunched for time and do not have the luxury of reading dense texts that dissect the science of public speaking and are the primary go-to guides on the market.
  Instead, Cohen has outlined in his book various realistic 
parallels that the reader may draw on to better understand the power that speech can have on the masses, compartmen-talizing his message into ﬁ  ve simple segments: Lead Through Speech, Connect With Your Audience, Use Your Voice, Construct Memorable Messages and Deliver Specialized Speeches.
  After graduating from UF, Cohen attended Harvard Univer-
sity to pursue a master’s degree in public policy. It was there, while he was teaching a graduate seminar on speaking, that he ﬁ  rst began to theorize the concepts of speech that he would later publish in his book.
  “When I listened to these students, I realized they had big 
dreams, and I wanted to give them the power to sell them,” he said. “Speech gives you the power to change hearts and change minds.”
  But it was not only in the classroom where Cohen began to 
construct his thoughts on the nature of public speaking. Co-hen combined the lessons he’d learned from teaching semi-nars with the examples he saw during his leisure time where 
he attended multiple concerts.
  “I just love music: classical, jazz, R&B, etc.,” Cohen said. 
“When I’d go to concerts, I noticed how similar performing mu-
sic and public speaking were. The idea is that you want to give your notes to people; everything that comes out of your mouth is music, and there’s a powerful combination there. If you can think like a musician, you can lead.”
  In a world where we are reminded continuously of how pow-
erful the art of speech is (look no further 
than the example set by our current presi-
dent), this book can help take anyone from the crippling nerves that so often sabotage even our most eloquently written speeches and grant them the ability to convey their message without fear or hesitation. Doing so allows the speaker’s true message to be 
heard.
  “I want people to walk away from this book feeling inspired,” 
Cohen said. “I want to make them feel empowered to act. This book provides an opportunity to learn about something you really need but is not often taught in undergraduate classes. It gives you a new power, which I call ‘exercising leadership.’ That’s what matters: If you can get people to listen to you, get your message across, then you’ve gotten out of UF what you need for the real world.” 
— CARTER LYLES
Downtown bars give taste of local art 
  By MICHELLE KLUG
 avenue contributing writer
 
  Every Thursday, Friday and Saturday 
night, thousands of people ﬂ  ock to down-
town Gainesville’s bar scene. Students and locals alike cram into watering holes for many reasons: to socialize with friends, 
to look for romance, to dance and, let’s 
face it, to drink. 
But a few of downtown Gainesville’s 
bars are offering patrons a taste of some-thing they may not have expected: local art.
  If you walk into Alcove, a small bar nes-
tled in between Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar and Main Street Billiards, the atmosphere 
takes you into a translucent euphoria. As 
the indie music and low chatter pumps in your ears, your eyes adjust to the glow of the low lights and the craft beer entices your taste buds. Your eyes are drawn to one of the many original works of art that line the walls. It’s impossible not to ponder these pieces, and this setup is not by ac-cident. Alcove’s second purpose, after be-ing a bar, is to display local art.
  Evan Yavelberg, owner of Alcove, said 
art is a big part of his life and has shaped the way he runs his business.
  “It’s an experience when you come to 
Alcove,” Yavelberg said. “You feel like you are walking into a piece of art.”
  If you happened to be standing out-
side of 110 S. Main St. at night, you could see through the windows to the Alcove 
sign, which is a piece of artwork in itself.  
Yavelberg commissioned a friend to make the piece, which incorporates different-colored shapes of stained class placed asymmetrically and illuminated, to give off a vibrant feel. It draws patrons, like moths to a bright light, into Alcove for a cocktail. 
  Yavelberg said he admires professional 
artists and wants to help them in any way 
he can. He said he often is approached by 
local artists or will seek them out to dis-play their work. He has displayed abstract paintings, ﬁ  gurative works and photogra-phy.
  He has one piece displayed behind the 
bar that he created, which doesn’t get ro-tated, and a piece by Gainesville artist Ted 
Lincoln is also a permanent ﬁ  xture.
  Other recently opened bars around 
downtown Gainesville have followed suit. 
The Bull, bakery and coffee house by day, craft beer bar and gallery by night, rotates local art in its establishment. 
  Recently opened Tall Paul’s Brew 
House, at 10 SE Second Ave., intends to adopt a similar approach to displaying 
art.  
  “We plan on showcasing many pieces 
of local art at Paul’s,” said Tall Paul’s co-
owner Jeff Hickey. “It’s important to us, as a member of the downtown bar com-munity, to expose people to Gainesville’s artists.”
  Paul’s is 4,500 square feet and has 
lots of empty wall space, which the own-
ers hope to festoon in local art for their 
customers’ enjoyment.
  “People want something to look at 
other than blank walls or beer ads,” Hick-ey said. “Having the art gives customers something to discuss as well as adding to the atmosphere.” around gainesvillethursday, march 31, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
To calm mind, tai chi emphasizes form and breathing 
By ROBERT IMFELD
avenue contributing writer
Tai chi chuan, more commonly known as tai 
chi, is an ancient Chinese form of martial arts. 
It uses a series of slow movements designed to strengthen the body, increase flexibility and calm the mind.
Barbara Kerkhoff has been practicing it for 
14 years and instructed it for 12 years.
“Just to do the normal things we do to get 
through the day keeps the mind quite busy and jittery,” she said. “Doing tai chi, because you’re focusing on the form and the breathing, it allows all of that other mind stuff to fall away, 
which is very relaxing for the mind.”
Kerkhoff explained that chi is energy and 
that everyone is born with his or her own 
unique level of original energy, which is why some people have boundless energy and oth-ers never seem to have enough. The chi is located in an energy center called the lower tan tien (pronounced DON-dee-en), which is a couple of inches below the navel and a couple 
of inches toward the center of the body.
Called yang in short form, Kerkhoff’s cho -
sen tai chi utilizes 38 movements that involve 
shifting  body weight between the legs, lifting the legs and raising the arms. 
If you are panicking over an exam or a proj-
ect, tai chi can help. 
“When we go through a stressful time, if 
we’re aware that our breathing has changed — maybe gotten more rapid, shallow, uneven — then we can very quickly with our aware -
ness shift to slow, deep tai chi breathing,” she said.
One movement you can do for five to 10 min-
utes every day is the lifting water form. Start off in mountain pose, which means your feet are hip-distance apart and your joints are stacked above one another — knees above ankles, hips above knees, shoulders above hips and ears 
above shoulders — and your knees are slightly 
bent. While inhaling, keep your palms facing down, bend your elbows and slowly raise your arms in front of you and no higher than your shoulder height. Then, while exhaling, in one slow movement, bring your arms in toward you, bend your knees and lower your arms. Return to mountain pose, and repeat the movement until you feel calm and clear. 
If you’re interested in learning tai chi, check 
out classes at the School of Tai Chi Chuan (da-vidbole.com) and the Gainesville Wellness Center (gainesvillewellness.com).
wellnessClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-20-10-70-1
The Life. The Look.
THE LANDINGS.
2/2.5 Townhomes
Starting @ $940
Includes Internet & Cable
www.TheLandingsUF.com
352-336-3838
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $409***
Ask about our Apple TV special!
Start your summer here!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1The Polos
ALL-INCLUSIVE LIVING*
3/3: From $444/person
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-20-10-70-1
Starting @ $375 per bedroom
All inclusive! ● Furnished
● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities2 blocks from UF!
www.campuswalkapt.com  352-337-9098    
4-20-42-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE 
IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   
9-26-11-78-1
REDUCED RENT FOR QUALIFIED 
INDIVIDUAL WILLING TO SHOW APTS. IN QUADPLEX. NEWLY REHABBED & FURNISHED 2 BDRM w/W/D. ENTAILS MINOR DUTIES. NORMALLY RENTS $735/MO. CALL 727-423-9463    4-8-11-13-1
Rm in scholars' haven 1 mi north of UF, 
woods, housewares, W/D, piano, internet, cable, phone, pkg. Elegant. $400+util. 352-262-3957 casamarta64@yahoo.com.   4-1-11-3-1
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse. Walk to UF.
Avail. 8/15$900/mo. call 877-833-2865     4-13-11-10-1
4BR/4BA Countryside @ Univ Apt furn. Asking $380/mo. All brms avail. beg. 8/1. Rent inc. cable and wireless internet+util package for elec/water. Contact Chris at 941-726-2204 or raginriv@ufl.edu w/ any ques   4-14-11-11-1Furnished 4bedroom4bath condo,W/D/
Dishwasher for 2011-2012 starting Aug16 
1/2mi from UF on bus route, 3800 SW 20th 
Ave between UF and Butler Plaza $300/mo 
++ per student 352-586-6468    4-13-11-10-
1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING!!
SPACIOUS 1050 Sqft 2BDR
ONLY $299/BED
www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 East at $495 ALL Pets Welcome
1 MONTH FREE
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
4-20-11-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2   1,2,3,4 BR’s – Move in now or August!
●         Huge floorplans! * Water/sewer incl!
●         Washer/Dryers! * Pets Loved!
●         Cardio * Pools * Tanning * Tennis
●         376-2507 * bivenscove.com
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe  NW 23rd Blvd
1s, 2s and 3s from $699
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400 MadisonPointe.orgText MADISON to 47464 for more info!4-20-70-2
Now Including Internet !
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
UNBELIEVABLE!!
1 br-ONLY $449
Immed M/I
Only 5 left!!
Call today!
352-376-1248
4-20-11-70-2
2/2.5 TH • $699
4/2.5 TH • 1 month FREE
W/D included • Pets welcome
352-332-7401 • thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in The
Alligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,
Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 13
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
“Renovation Celebration”
1 BR Starting at $499
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
●       377-7401 * biketouf.com
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $515 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. 10-2.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
Sun Bay & Sun Key
1.1 from 475
2.1 from 550
Walk to campus;
8 short minutes on the bus
pet friendly!
full time grads
no deposit for 1.1 
352.376.6720352.376.7041
4-20-10-70-2
Sun Harbor
2.1.5 townhome
600 - 675
1 month free on 650.
8 minutes to campus on bus;
walk to campus
pet friendly
352.376.7041 or
352.376.6720 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2Pine Rush Villas
1/1 *$449
2/1 *$569
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $829
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-20-11-67-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-20-11-67-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    3-31-11-58-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2 with Vaulted ceilings & W/D.
Garage included. Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
MadisonPointe.org
Text MADISON to 47464 for more info!!         
4-20-66-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    4-7-11-50-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $425, 2 BR $535. 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $475, 2BR $575 352-335-0420   3-31-11-43-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Courtney Greens
1/1 *$549 *Rate includes 1 month free!*
Pet Friendly No weight limit
*Brand New Energy Efficient appliances*
Ph. 375-3077 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Homestead Apartments
2/1 *$599
2/2 *$699
*Rates includes 1 month free!*
Pet friendly No weight limit
Close to main postal facility & shopping.
Ph. 376-0828 www.gremco.com
4-20-11-39-2
Duplex, Duckpond, CHA, carport, carpets, 
ceiling fans, quiet, trees, large yard, $700mo, 920 NE 6th Ave., 376 0080; 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   3-31-11-20-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-1550   5-10-11-34-2MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month 2BR 1BA Apts
3 BLKS TO UF & Downtown!
840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms, Plenty of
Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac.
Carpet, Pets Allowed. 829 Sw 5th Avenue.
CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt 3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo $600 Deposit
Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht.
216 SW 12th Street.
GRAD II Apts
1BR 1BA 1BLK TO UF
Central H & Air, Laundry
On site. $500/Mo
1236 Sw 4th Avenue $600 Deposit
3-31-11-15-2
$385-rooms available in beautiful 4/4 condo 
in SW Gville. Incl. cable and internet. 5 mins 
from UF and Butler Plaza. Walk-in closets, 
W/D included, furnished common area. 
352.514.3398.    3-31-15-2
*March Madness!*
Luxury 2/2s for Fall
College Park--across from UF!
Starting @ $550/room
Sign w/in 48 hrs, Waive leasing fee!
352-371-7777
3-31-11-13-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $750/mo. Please call Ketty 352-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com     4-5-11-16-2
1700 sq ft 3BR/2BA House
Wood floors, large screened-in back porch, 
jacuzzi, W/D, corner lot $1400/mo Call  (352) 258-9116 to see. Available Aug 1st.4-5-11-15-2
****4/2 3962 W University Ave.****
Living room, dining room & family room, close to campus, all appliances, W/D,hot tub, fire place, screened porch,Avail Aug1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****3401 NW 7th Place****
3/2 living, dining ,family rooms. All appliances, 
W/D, close to campus, large yd. Small pets OK Avail Aug.1, $1325 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
****4/3 18 NW 36th St.****
Close to campus, all appliances,
W/D, central heat/airAvail. Aug 1, $1400 - 333-9874 or 317-73464-20-11-26-2
●NW 39 Ave Huge 3BR/2BA apt, w/lg loft  
Tile flr & nice carpet. Bright, wdlike flr $800 ●2BR/2BA, some w/woodlike flr. All w/new 
BR carpet. $600-635. Gated patio, trees, flood lts. Part utils pd. Bus rte. 373-8310, 219-39374-5-15-2
*******STUDENTS******
1,2,3 and 4 bedroom houses and apartments 
available for August. All close to campus. Most pets accepted. Call 870-2760.   4-20-11-26-2
Renting Now and for Fall!!
We have REAL 1/1s
3 blocks to UF - GATORNEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS ONE MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
BIKE to UF - CENTERPOINT
530 sq ft, only $450!
1220 NW 12th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properites, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com4-20-10-26-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●4/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1300
4-13-11-20-2
3bedroom $509/person
Amazing townhome with everything included! 
Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/
dryer. Cobblestone Apts. Call now: 352-377-
2801   4-20-25-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels Apts. Call now: 
352-335-4455    4-20-11-25-2
Trying to find a place to live
stressing you out?
Call 352-375-7104 today!
trend4rent.com
4-20-24-25
2BR/1BA, 1/2 month free. $380-$425/mo. 
Mobile home w/ central AC/heat, shaded lot. 
Incl water, - mobile home lot $260/mo  352-
376-5887    4-20-11-24-2
LARGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE. Extremely Nice, 
bike to UF, central AC/heat, W/D, dish-washer, garage, fenced yard, landscaped. 
No pets. Avail Aug 16th - 1 year. 2806 NW 
16th Ave. $1690/mo. 352-665-8166 lv mssg.   
5-12-11-26-2
★Walk to UF★
2,3,4,5 bedrooms Avail Aug
walk2uf.com
4-20-24-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com   4-1-11-10-2
Two blocks from UF Stadium 
3 Bed 1 Bath, 1 Bed 1 Bath, and Studio. Available Summer and/or Fall352-377-2930        4-1-11-10-2
2BR HOUSE 3 blks from UF/Sorority Row/
Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, fenced, pets ok, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $850352-665-8166 lv mssg    5-12-11-25-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/Sorority 
Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, cent AC/heat, W/D, DW, fenced, pets maybe, plenty of parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1335352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
HUGE 4BR/2BA HOUSE 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area din-ing rm, remodeled baths, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, W/D, DW, pets maybe, parking! Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $2350 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
Large 4BR/2BA HOUSES 2 blks from UF/
Sorority Row/Norman Hall/Shands area, w/dining room, cent AC/heat, wd flrs, DW, plen -
ty of parking! . Avail Aug 16th - 1 yr. $1980 352-665-8166 lv mssg   5-12-11-25-2
SPRING SPECIAL!Quiet 1bd 1ba 827sq ft loft.SW G'ville on RTS 10 min on freeway from SFCJust renovatd. swim pool, exercise room.$425mo call 472-6491 or 474-0841    4-1-11-10-2
14, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011
3BR/3BA House, fenced yard, close to UF, 
open floor plan/cathedral ceilings, new tile, 
carpet, fixtures. W/D, lawn, and pest control 
incl. Small pets allowed, avail Aug, $1350/
month. 352-246-5958, tonyc@kinetixpt.com    
4-8-11-15-2
SAVE SOME GREEN! Fall specials
3 BR 1 mile to UF. $895 for WHOLE apt!
W/D, H2O, sewer, gas incld.
Sign by April 1st to get this AWESOME deal
2700 SW Archer Rd 373-2700    4-1-9-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-05-11-10-2
**3/2 515 NW 51st St.**
Near GHFC vaulted ceilings, all appliances, 
W/D, garage, small pets ok. Avail. Aug 1, $1225 333-9874,  317-7346    4-20-11-21-2
TOP QUALITY - GREAT LOCATIONS
Upscale, 1 & 2 BR apts. 1 block to UF cam-
pus - on N & E sides. Year lease, begin -
ning summer or fall. Sorry, no pets. K & M Properties. 372-1509   4-20-11-21-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across from UF 
Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, $600/mo K&M Properties 372-1509    4-20-11-21-2
www.Bellaproperties.net
3/2 with study. Walk to UF, hardwood floors, 
fireplace, 2 car garage, full sevice tour
335-5424
4-20-20-2
WALK TO UF! ONE MONTH FREE!
3 blocks from Campus. New 2/2 Condo-each room has private bath + gourmet kitchen & laundry & parking. $650 per rm. mollydh@aol.com 614-288-6730    4-1-11-7-2
www.BellaProperties.net
Palm Villas - luxury graduate apartments in 
a small and quiet complex. 2 BR/2 BA avail-
able for $465 per BR. Call to tour 335-5424
4-20-20-2.
WALK TO UF
3 Bed 2 Bath House in upscale Golfview Estates near Law School & Athletic fields.$1400 mo. Aug 1. Call (305) 788-4103    4-20-11-19-2
WALK TO UF. START SUMMER OR FALL
●Studios $425--$400 ●1BR/1BA $550-$450
●2BR $850-$800     1 yr lease, SD, NS, NP.
Call/Text 352-870-7256 gvll32601@gmail.com    4-20-11-20-2
Duckpond area HOUSE Aug.1
Large 3/1, W&D, Cent. H/AC
wood fls, nice yard, quiet
$1100 Bike to UF
352-316-0154 www.10houses.com
4-1-11-6-2
MIKE'S HOUSES - 352-665-7316
Exc cond - Close to UF. Pets OK - fenced yards.●3/2 $1250 621 NW 35th St.●4/3 $1250 611 NW 36th Terr●3/2 $1150 630 NW 34th Terr.  4-7-11-10-2
Newly renovated 2BD/2BA, two-story 1340 
sq. ft. townhouse available at $925. Includes: New wood floors, new carpet upstairs, new washer/dryer, new kitchen appliances, fire-place, pool. Millhopper area, next to Fresh Market, Leonardo's, and other great eateries! Contact Jon at 352-275-6644.     4-4-11-5-2
Fantastic 3/2 House - Only 9 blocks to UF!! Large bedrooms, great neighborhood, wood floors, fenced back yard, off the street park-ing, Freshly painted bright interior. Aval. now, 1200.00 + Sec. Deposit. 909 NW 9th Ave. Call Chad 407-230-2423   4-12-11-10-2LIVE ON UF LAKE
2BR/2BA pristine Bivens Arm condo. Large 
den/3rd BR, hardwood floors, W/D, pool, 
canoe. Walk/bike to Shands/UF, bus stop. 
$1190/mo. Call 407-832-1458    4-20-11-
16-2
Near UF. Beautiful 4BR/2BA home. Florida 
room w/ inground jacuzzi. W/D. All tile floor. 
2-car attached garage, storage shed. Walk 
to grocery & shops. Avail Aug 10. $1499/mo  
904-534-6982, kencarmgravs@comcast.net    
4-6-11-5-2
Don't wait!
Place Your Sublease Ad TODAY!
The last issue for the spring 
semester will be on April 20th!
It's FAST & EASY!
Go to: www.alligator.org/classifieds
$750/mo OBO Windsor Hall.Summer A/C 
or B. Movein early. Furnished, secure,pool, 
all utilities inc. Walk to UF.No roomies. Your 
own apt! Parking avail. Call 954-821-1446 
or radurier@bellsouth.net for info.   6-2-11-
30-3
1/1 in a 4/4 @ Gainesville Place for Summer. 
$424/month, all-inclusive, fully-furnished, 
wireless in apartment, 42" TV, close to bus 
stops. 2 rooms available. Contact Marcella 
at 954-854-2503 or mpatino@ufl.edu.   3-31-
5-3
Affordable & Spacious 1/1 avail. May 1
700 sq. ft. with upgraded tile floor
Bel Air @ Hidden Lake
Interested call 219-951-2047
Or email mcowen20@gmail.com    4-1-5-3
$399/mo. 2BR/2BA at Campus Lodge! Fully 
furnished and utilities are included. Available May till August. Females Preferred. Call 321-890-7565 for more info.   3-31-2-3
$325 Gainesville Place Apartments, 1/1 in a 4/4- large bedroom with personal bathroom. Lease runs from May 1st to August 3rd. Fully furnished, washer and dryer, utilities includ -
ed $325 a month! Call Allison 904-327-0519   4-5-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT $385.00 
MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED, NO MOVE IN COST. WE DO SEMISTER LEASING,Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty   9-26-11-78-4
Walk to UF from a 4bd/2ba NW house.Male 
or female.No pets/smoking.Free off-street parking$450.00/mo.Includes all utilities, wifi,security system, Available 8/1 yearly lease. 727-726-2915    4-5-11-15-4
HANDYMAN SPECIAL Share 2BR/2BA MH 
in Hidden Oaks. Furn rm incl elec, ph, cable, internet. Close to UF, bus, shopping. $200 NR dep. $400/mo. NS, NA, ND. Handyman can work off most. Caged pets ok. 331-0762    4-5-15-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 poolside condo at Countryside. Easy com-mute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. Text 850 585 4405, 386 676 9703, nukken1@aol.com 3-31-11-10-4
2BR/2BA avail now in 4BR/4BA Country-side condo. $435/mo/room - utils incl. Directbus to UF 3 mis. Pool, exercise room,nicely furn. 3rd Flr. W/D, wireless. Flo 352-357-9656, or 352-636-4814     4-20-11-23-4I am looking for a male roommate who is 
very nice and easy to get along with. Asking 
$300/mo which includes util & Dish Network 
TV. If interested, call Joe at 331-4239 or 352-
682-9412    4-8-14-4
MOVE IN AUGUST-Need 1 female stu-
dent to share clean 2/2 furnished condo in 
Rockwood Villas. Easy commute UF/SFC on 
bus rte. No pets/smoking. $450/mo. includes 
all utilites, W/D. Yrly lease. Text 727-494-
4503, surfinbean@gmail.com    4-4-11-7-4
1 roommate needed in 4/4 at Gainesville 
Place for Fall 2011/Spring 2012. $510/month 
OBO. Bus Route to UF, pools, tanning, all 
inclusive furnished, free parking!
call (850)255-3832 email jgardner@ufl.edu   
3-31-5-4
Male, grad student/instructor preferred for 
small furnished apt on side of private home 
close to UF. Cable, internet, patio, safe. No 
pets. One person only. Avail Aug. $475/mo 
incl utils. 352-336-5808    4-1-11-6-4
Female to rent room in 3/2 beautifully updat-
ed condo in quiet, attractive development, 
private bath, w/d, walk-in closet, swimming 
pool, weight room, on bus route $425 + 1/3 
util Avail Aug (727)455-4204    4-5-11-5-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus 
route. $350/mo + utils per room. Call 727-
729-1561   4-20-15-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
Furniture for sale-Like New. Reasonable!
UF Student Graduating. Queen Bed, Triple
Dresser & Chest, 2 Night Stands, Liv.
Room-Sofa, Love Seat, Desk Workstation
& Leather Chair, TV Stand, Cocktail Table.
$1,500 call 954-275-4008
3-31-11-10-6CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
CASH FOR ELECTRONICS
WORKING OR NOT!
Xbox, iTouch, Computer Repairs
www.techmodo.co
Techmodo (352)872 5881
6450 SW Archer Rd By the Beef `O` Brady`s  
4-6-7-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: 
surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
Only for Students ofUF!
Win an Apple iPad 2 right now!
Go to www.giftnitro.com
Win a free Apple iPad2!
4-13-11-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
2010 PEACE SPORT
$400 cash. 5 months old, runs great.
352-575-4254                  3-31-11-5-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11***GatorMoto***     HUGE new scooter sale!All models between $200 - $400 off! All come 
with one year parts and labor warranties! 
Hurry, the most popular colors are going fast! 
352-376-6275 www.GatorMoto.com    4-20-
11-35-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
4-20-11-72-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESBring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      4-8-11-70-13 Remedy Staffing now offers Free Video 
Resumes. Add to you Facebook profile, 
Linkedin and many other social sites.
Call 672.6080 x-3 or email
stephenw@remedystaff.com to schedule.
4-12-11-20-4
City of Gainesville Parks/Rec
Dept. is now hiring for seasonal
recreation and aquatics positions
Competitive pay in great work
environment! Apply online today
at www.cityofgainesville.jobs     7-12-11-5-14
F/T Legal Secretary/Office Administrator, 
salary negotiable. Call Carrillo & Carrillo @ 
352-371-4000.                       3-31-11-12-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
or boarding at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149    4-20-26-14
Account Director/Project Manager wanted 
for Gainesville web design company. Web 
design/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-
14
Web Designer wanted for Gainesville web de-
sign company. Outstanding graphic design, 
Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, XHTML & 
CSS experience required. Email resume to 
hr@352media.com    5-24-11-30-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL 
Server, HTML, XML experience required. 
Email resume to hr@352media.com.    5-24-
11-30-14
The Village, an upscale retirement
community, is looking for CNAs and
LPNs to join our team. Experience in
Assisted Living is preferred. Part time
and PRN available. Competitive salary
and a great working environment.
For more information or to apply, please visit 
www.thevillageonline.com/jobs The Village 
is an Equal Opportunities Employer and a 
Drug Free Workplace.   5-17-11-27-14
The Village, an upscale retirement com-
munity, is hiring! Multiple part time and full time Life Coach positions available in both Independent and Assisted Living. Come and be a part of our growing team! These positions play a support role in planning, or-ganizing, and implementing our life enrich-ment program that promotes total health and wellness of each resident living here at The Village. The ideal candidate will have experi-ence conducting group programs with strong interpersonal skills. Understanding and pas-sion for working with older adults is a must. In addition to experience with social programs, individuals with a theology background and/or fitness experience are encouraged to apply. please visit www.thevillageonline.com/jobs     5-17-11-27-14
PROPERTY MANAGER
PT - Friendly, energetic person.
Requires good communication skills,
sales &/or mgmt. exp. & computer
knowledge. Great benefits. Must be
avail. wknds. Apply in person CMC
2770 NW 43rd St., Ste. B DFWP
4-20-11-24-14
Child Care Director - Part time
1+ year experience with school age children
Strong leadership & communication skills
Sundays 9am-noon. $13-$15/hr, DOE
Must be CPR & first aid certified
Apply in person: M-F 8am-4pm
United Church of Gainesville
1624 NW 5th Avenue
www.ucgainesville.org
4-1-11-11-14
SPANISH TRANSLATOR
Gleim Publications is looking for candidates that can translate accounting material from English to Spanish. Must be native Spanish speaker who spent formative years and high school in their native country. Four year ac-counting degree.
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.   4-5-11-10-14What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA
4-20-11-23-14
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – August 6. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   4-20-20-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
HOME HEALTH AGENCY now hiring RN, 
LPN, PT, OT, ST, RT & PTA, OTA to fill PRN or FT positions. Great pay. 352-284-2336 or send resume to 352-373-2254. Work avail -
able  now.   4-1-11-20-14
Lifeguard-Certification Required
$12.00/hour. Weekend Work.State Mental Hlth Treatment FacCall Grady Carthon(352)264-8248    3-31-18-14
Love writing? Looking for writers for origi-
nal articles & product descriptions for 
multiple IT websites. Earn up to $150-$300/
wk from your location. Must have excellent 
grammar & writing skills. 626-602-5254
4-12-11-20-14
16, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011
TECH SUPPORT
LINUX ADMIN
SALES REPS
ADMIN ASST
Please apply online at
http://www.gleim.com/employment.  4-5-11-
10-14
Help Wanted at Gun Club.
Exp shotgun/firearm safety, Wed, Fri, Sat, 
Sun - noon to pm schedule. Call Mr Clay 352-372-1044 GatorSkeetandTrap.com4-20-11-21-14
RESEARCH PARTICIPANTS NEEDED
FOR LANGUAGE STUDY! Participation
lasts 1 hour, pays $5 Starbucks giftcard.
Must be native English speaker. Interested?
Please contact: ufaphasialab@gmail.com or
(352) 273-3714 for information.
3-31-11-5-14
FT NANNY NEEDED late AUG for 1yr;
2 boys 10&14;$12/hr; ~ 30 hrs/wk;+few
overnights/wkd; must be exp/prof/ref/
Noah's Ark Nanny; e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    3-31-
11-5-14
SCOOTER/MOTORCYCLE MECHANIC
PT/FT jobs available. Experience
W/ 2 & 4-stroke motors a must!
Inquire within or call 336-1271
Collin@NS4L.com    4-20-16-14
Seeking FT sales/customer service repre-
sentative. Responsible for covering phones, 
identifying/selling business solutions to cur-
rent and potential customers, processing or-
ders, and other miscellaneous office duties. 
Ability to multi-task, meet tight deadlines 
and problem solve a plus. 2+ years exp pre-
ferred. Must be able to work M-F 9:30AM-
6PM. Email resume to
Employment@elitesoftware.com.
3-31-11-5-14
Vet Tech - Experienced Only - Full Time
Exp. w/restraint, medical protocol, client ed-ucation. Flexible hrs. incl. weekends, good comm. skills, computer exp. Email resume to timberviewpetclinic@yahoo.com    4-1-11-5-14
Zen Cart administrator / Designer
P/T-F/T. Pay commensurate with experi -
ence. HTML and programming skills a plus. Email resume to: tony@mcknight.ws    4-1-11-5-14
Camp Counselors
Part time and full time positions open im-mediately & over the summer. Must be 18 or older and good with children. Apply with resume online at www.GirlsPlace.net    4-8-11-10-14
$15 for a 90-minute study. To participate, you 
should have grown up in a Spanish-speaking country & become fluent in English when you came to the US for school. Contact Sabra Pelham at spelham@ufl.edu to sign up! 4-11-10-14
Obtain valuable experience for your future. 
If you are hardworking & enthusiastic GHF 
wants to meet you!  We will be holding a 
Job Fair for the following positions:
Floor Instructors
Housekeepers
Kid’s Club Attendants
Receptionist
Zwurly’s (Café Attendant)
Internships for the Summer Semester
No prior experience necessary to apply
Apply at 4820 Newberry Road
Thursday, March 31st
Friday, April 1st 
10-2pm
3-31-11-3-14CAREGIVER TO LIVE-IN with elderly lady. 
Room, board, salary. Gainesville. Must have 
driver's license, good driving record and be 
able to pass background & drug test. Call 
Connie 352-792-2743    4-5-11-5-14
Computer Programming Internship
Work with local small business to
Expand online presence, update &
build websites, and network. Web
Design experience required.
Collin@NS4L.com for more info.    4-20-16-
14
Sitter/Tutor starting May 2nd, 3:15p to 6:30p 
MTWF with some late nite and Sunday hrs 
for 2 kids, ages 9 & 13. Prefer female with 
strong math and organization skills. Includes 
transporting kids. Call 332-6465.   4-1-11-3-
14
Mobile Waiters Needed - Immediate 
Interviews. Weekend shifts available. 
Make your own schedule, flexible hours, 
avg. $10-$14/hr. Must have own car, cell 
with texting, must be 21+. Email resume to 
blatendresse@d-d-i.com, call 888-334-9675 
ext. 0, or go to www.d-d-i.com   4-1-11-3-14
Receptionist/file clerk/runner for busy law firm. Must be organized, motivated, profes-
sional w/positive attitude, reliable transpor-
tation, p/t. Resume, cover letter w/available 
days/times: hrmb1204@yahoo.com    4-4-
11-3-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-0069 to schedule an appointment todayprogreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY. WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-96963-31-20-15
Microwave OvenRepair Specialist
Since 1997. (352) 804-1113    4-20-11-26-15ARC Lifeguard Training
Starts Now!! Don't miss out.
Floridaheartsaver.org 352 575-0119     5-10-24-15
NOW OPEN
IMAGES SALON
1020 NW 23rd Ave, Suite D
Gainesville, Fl 32609
Manicures $12,Pedicures $12
Haircuts $18 and much more
For appointment 352-872-5565
3-31-2-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Unplanned Pregnancy? Consider Adoption. 
Living, Medical & Counseling Expenses Paid. Private & Confidential. Call Atty. Ellen Kaplan 1-877-341-1309 (FL Bar #0875228)   7-22-11-100-16
CPR training is back!
Need CPR/AED or 1st Aid?Meets internship requirementsFloridaHeartsaver.org(352)575-0119                        4-8-20-16
● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF studentsGatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.  
4-4-11-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18What's your "Plan B"?
Go to www.sambellgreen.com
then call Sam at (352) 316-29554-20-37-18
IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage Green Cards, Natz, H1B Visas
www.RuthImmigrationLaw.com
(904) 425-8078
4-4-14-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SWM, 55, financially secure veteran. Health 
insurance plus disability check and trust fund 
included and, the meds go great with beer. 
Call Chuck 215-5665   3-31-1-19
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Casting call for feature film: The Best Western Gateway Grand at the Northwest 
quadrant of the intersection of I-75 and exit 
390. April 2nd, 9am - 4pm. Please visit
www.SwampTales.us for more information.
4-1-11-13-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDRH40 42xAny info call or text (850) 543-3762
REWARD $400                          4-20-26-25
Sports
THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer 
 
In the week that flowed into the Southeastern Confer -
ence Championships, freshman Mackenzie Caquatto was 
ready to go. 
She had an impressive performance in the intrasquad 
competition, and her energy was high heading into the 
SEC meet. 
But a mere five days before the championships, she 
rolled her ankle in practice Monday.  
Frustrated, she asked herself, “Why me? Why now?” 
The team’s trainer, Stacey Higgins, said a rolled or 
sprained ankle is the most common injury, not only in gymnastics and sports, but in everyday life. 
“That’s just how people are built in general,” Higgins 
said. “You take a sport where they have no shoes, and 
you’re going to get more of that.” 
Because of her ankle, Caquatto, who posted one of the 
top all-around scores of the season, could only compete 
on bars in SECs. 
However, Caquatto was lively in practice this Tues-
day, her ankle almost fully healed, and she is set to return to beam in this weekend’s NCAA North Central Regional Championships in Denver. 
“Being able to have Macko in on two events and hav-
ing her prepared and ready to do four events for nationals is our goal,” UF coach Rhonda Faehn said. 
After a second-place finish at SECs March 19, Faehn admitted her team wasn’t fully healthy during competi-tion. 
Caquatto had an ankle injury, all-around star Ashanée 
Dickerson had a stomach flu, and Marissa King was suf-fering ankle pain. 
Even Faehn herself was under the weather that week-
end, she said.
POLL RESULTS SOFTBALL GAME, TENNIS MATCH CANCELED AWARDS AND HONORS
n Florida’s Alex Cercone was named the Southeastern 
Conference Women’s Tennis Freshman of the Week, the 
league announced Wednesday. UF seniors Stephanie Brombacher and Megan Bush were nominated for the Lowe’s Senior CLASS and Davis awards, respectively.n The Florida softball team’s Wednesday matchup against 
South Florida was canceled due to inclement weather, and the Gators will play this weekend at Kentucky. The Gators women’s tennis team’s match against Baylor was also can -
celed due to rain and will not be made up.Previous question:  Who will win the Final Four?
 Percent (Votes)
Kentucky 59% (38)
UConn 23% (15)
VCU 14% (9)
Butler 3% (2)
64 TOTAL VOTESMatt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman gymnast Mackenzie Caquatto is recovering from a rolled ankle that limited her to only competing on bars in the Southeastern Conference Championships last weekend.
Gators getting healthy at right time as NCAAs draw near
End of the dance: A new road opens
“Man, am I glad to see 
you.” 
In my mind’s 
eye, Blinky is clad in blue, astride a horse and blowing a bugle.   
My partner and I speed from 
Kennedy Airport, over the Tribor -
ough Bridge and up the Major Dee-
gan to the Westchester detention center. 
We bail Dominick out, and he 
gives us his version of what hap-pened the night of the bust.
n n n
Dom and Frankie Pazzo drive to 
the designated park in Westchester to pick up the money . 
Karl, the deadbeat, waits out-
side his car in the parking lot. When Dom and Pazzo show up, he tells them there’s no money. He doesn’t have one dollar. Nada. Zip.    Then, Karl 
rants, “Now you’re going to kill me, aren’t you?
“ A r e n ’ t 
you? You’re going to kill me. Say it. Say you’re going to kill me.” 
Dom says, “What the f*** are you 
talking about, kill you?
“Why did you drag us all the 
way up here if we’re not going to 
get paid?  No one’s going to kill you. 
We want our money.”
Karl says, “Just tell me you’re go-
ing to kill me. I know you’re going to kill me.”
Dom says, “Shut the f*** up, No 
one’s going to kill you. We want to get paid. You need a f***ing beating, but no one’s going to kill you.”  
Bingo. It’s like he tripped an 
alarm in hell. 
The parking lot lights up like Yan-
kee Stadium. Hordes of Westchester police and troopers charge out of the woods wielding shotguns and assaul”t rifles. 
A voice roars over a bullhorn, 
“Put your hands in the air. You’re under arrest. You have the right to 
remain silent.”   
n n n
Months later at the trial, we find 
out Karl stumbled on one of life’s le-
gal rackets. 
He busts bookmaking opera-
tions. It’s a Godsend for a compul-sive gambler. He sends it in, and 
when he wins, he collects. 
When he loses, “Go f*** yourself. By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
 
For years, Will Muschamp 
has fought the idea that he 
doesn’t use small corner -
backs, and Cody Riggs has re-belled against the notion that he has to be big to play well.
Listed at 5-foot-9 and 166 
pounds, Riggs is part of a three-man competition with junior Jeremy Brown and 
senior Moses Jenkins for the 
starting cornerback spot op-posite Janoris Jenkins, and Muschamp isn’t letting the sophomore’s slight frame keep him out of the picture.
“Everyone gets caught 
up in size, height and things, and I’ve been labeled as a guy that loves height by people 
that recruit against us,” M u s c h a m p 
said Tuesday . 
“It’s not about how tall you are. It’s about 
if you make plays or not.
“Sure, we’d love to have 
a 6-3 corner, but is that real-istic? How many of those are 
out there? I don’t see many 
of them. It has nothing to do Riggs vies for spot
Bill O’Connor
Confessions of a 
New York Bookie
sports@alligator.orgSEE GYMNASTICS, PAGE 20
SEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 18
SEE BILL, PAGE 20Football“Being able to have Macko in on two events 
and having her prepared and ready to do four 
events for nationals is our goal.”
Rhonda Faehn
Florida gymnastics coach18, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Florida sophomore cornerback Cody Riggs, center, is competing with Jeremy Brown and Moses Jenkins 
for the second starting cornerback job opposite Janoris Jenkins. 
Harrison adjusting to center
with that. It has to do with playmak-
ing ability , and Cody’s been very 
productive throughout the spring. 
I’m very pleased with where he is.”
Muschamp pointed to two of his 
former players, Jerraud Powers and Jonathan Wilhite, as examples of his 
willingness to start smaller defen-
sive backs. 
Both are listed about an inch-
and-a-half taller than Muschamp re-membered them, but Powers played 
under Muschamp at Auburn and 
started 10 games for the Indianapo-lis Colts last year. 
The 5-foot-11 Wilhite, mean-
while, is currently on the New Eng-
land Patriots roster.
Hoping to add another success 
story to Muschamp’s list, Riggs has 
sought guidance from Jenkins, who 
is advising the cornerbacks while re-
covering from shoulder surgery.
“It’s very heated,” Riggs said. 
“We’re all working together for 
who’s the other starter opposite Jan-
oris, but we’re all just working hard for that spot.”HARRISON MOVING TO CENTER:  
Jonotthan Harrison hadn’t played 
center since his freshman year of 
high school, so it’s easy to under -
stand why the sophomore — still listed as a guard on Florida’s roster — was a little surprised when his 
coaches asked him to switch posi-
tions without providing a reason.
Harrison, who started at guard 
in the Outback Bowl, has been play-
ing center for UF in spring practice. 
Despite the abrupt nature of the 
change, he said he is enjoying it.
“I was shocked, but I was excited 
at the same time,” Harrison said. “I heard bits and pieces about me playing center before, and I’m just excited that it’s finally happening.”
The position requires more re-
sponsibility, vocal leadership and play recognition than guard, all of which Harrison is still acclimating to, so he sought the advice of former Gator Mike Pouncey for help adjust-
ing to his new role.
“He said you just really have to 
go hard, study and get in your play-
book,” Harrison said.FOOTBALL , from page 17n KELSEY BRUDER WILL JOIN TIM 
WALTON AND FRANCESCA ENEA ON THE USSSA PRIDE.
By STEPHEN SHEEHAN 
Alligator Writer 
 
When their careers at Florida come to a 
close, seniors Kelsey Bruder, Megan Bush and Aja Paculba will take their talents to the Na-
tional Pro Fastpitch organization this summer after being drafted on March 18. 
All three plan on playing for their respec-
tive franchises but are not eligible to sign until the collegiate season ends. 
Bruder was the top Gator chosen, as the 
USSSA Pride selected her with the first pick of the second round (fifth overall). 
The senior outfielder has filled in flaw-lessly for Francesca Enea in left field and ranks 
fourth on the team in batting average (.412) and second in slugging percentage (.794). 
Bush, enjoying a career year 
with a .453 average and 16 home runs, was selected sixth overall by the Akron Racers. 
Selected 17th overall by the NPF Diamonds, 
Paculba rounds out the talented trio that has made it to the Women’s College World Series every year since they came to UF in 2008. 
The second baseman ranks third in both 
batting average (.414) and slugging percent-
age (.750) while committing only two errors. 
The trio will join former Gator Francesca 
Enea, who was taken ninth overall last year. 
Enea and UF coach Tim Walton led the 
Pride to its first NPF Championship last sea-
son, defeating the Chicago Bandits.Seniors Bruder, Bush, Paculba selected in NPF draft  
SoftballBy MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
Clearly defined or not, there is a stan-
dard of excellence encompassing Florida athletics. 
When Amanda Butler was hired to re-
place Carolyn Peck as the women’s basket-ball coach in 2007, UF held the national title in both men’s basketball and football — the first academic institution to do so.
“It’s part of being a Gator, is that excel-
lence and being the best,” Butler said. 
Currently, the men’s basketball, baseball, 
softball, men’s golf, gymnastics, lacrosse, men’s and women’s swimming/diving, men’s and women’s tennis, and men’s track and field are ranked nationally. 
The football, volleyball and soccer teams 
were also ranked in the top 25 of their re-spective polls at season’s end. Volleyball and soccer contended for national titles, and the men’s track team just won another national championship.
But the women’s basketball team was not 
recognized in any poll all year and has been nationally ranked just one season during Butler’s time as coach. 
“Even though we haven’t crossed that 
threshold quite yet, it’s definitely going to happen,” Butler said. “We know we’re go-ing to make it happen, and that’s what we’re dwelling on.”
In all sports combined, Florida has more 
Southeastern Conference titles than any oth-er school in conference history with 198, in-cluding 53 since 1999-2000. Florida has also won 40 tournament titles that aren’t counted toward the official numbers.
Every women’s program on campus has 
at least three SEC championships — except basketball.
The Florida women’s basketball team was 
established right before Gerald Ford signed Title IX into law in July of 1975. But it’s also the only Gators sport, major or minor, to have never won a SEC championship.  
Where does that put the women’s basket-
ball team among sports at UF? 
“Obviously it’s an indication that we 
have a long way to go,” Butler said. 
Butler cited the difficulty of the SEC as a 
hindrance but remained confident that Flor -
ida’s time is near.
“Almost every other team has compet-
ed in their respective Final Fours or what-ever, but we haven’t,” Butler said. “There’s a couple things. Our league is incredibly hard every year top to bottom. Mississippi State’s the last-place team in our league, but it’s a big freaking deal to beat them because they’re good.
“There’s a climb there and a grind there 
that I think is hard for people to appreciate from the outside,” Butler said. “But at the same time, there’s this excitement because it’s going to happen.”
n n n
While the beginning of Butler’s tenure at 
Florida has had its ups and downs, people 
around the program have reason to believe she is making strides. 
Junior guard and co-captain Jordan Jones 
pointed to men’s coach Billy Donovan’s re-cent statement that you can’t win, and win big, without first experiencing heartbreak.
“When you look at the big picture of things, you can’t experience success until you experience failure,” Jones said. “I think it’s something to build on, not just for the rest of this season, for the rest of our careers here.”
Jones also said she isn’t concerned with 
the number of transfers the Gators have ex-perienced over her time here. 
“We have young players who haven’t 
gotten their head down this year at all,” said Jones, who transferred to Florida af-
ter spending her freshman season at South 
Carolina. “They haven’t pouted about play-ing time. The attitudes of our younger play-ers this year are much different, specifically, than the ones who transferred.”
Apart from lone senior Ebonie Crawford, 
the entire current roster is scheduled to re-turn for Butler’s fifth season at the helm, and Butler said she wants this group to lay the 
foundation for the future.
“Twenty years from now, no matter how 
many SEC Championships, national cham-
pionships, Final Four appearances that Flor -
ida has, there’s going to be a first, and that first can never be taken away from you,” Butler said. “The second isn’t any less spe-cial. But the first is (what makes people ask), ‘When did they get good? When did that 
happen?’”
Jones said Butler and the Gators are on 
the right path.
“You can’t expect to build a program 
overnight in the SEC,” Jones said. “You have 
Tennessee, who’s been at the top for 80 years or whatever it is.
“We want to play for her. Not just her but 
this coaching staff.”
n n n
UF lost eight games by six points or less, 
including four by two points or less, during its regular-season schedule this year. 
Florida gave up a 16-point lead in the sec-
ond half against Georgia and a 10-point lead with fewer than six minutes to go against Ken-tucky.  The Gators never held a lead in a two-point loss to cellar-dweller Ole Miss and gave up a 10-point halftime advantage at Alabama.
UF even lost to Brown, one of seven wins 
for the Ivy League team, and dropped a game at Hampton by 15 points after leading at half-time. Florida lost eight of 10 games in a span of a month, including a 103-97 double-overtime loss to Vanderbilt. 
It’s not unreasonable to believe Florida 
should have finished better than it did. 
“It’s a tough season where there have been 
a couple losses that could have gone differ -
ent,” Stewart said. “Let’s say our Georgia game, our Vandy game, our Kentucky game — DePaul, Florida State. Even five of those wins, we would be ranked top-something and people would be in here celebrating what are we doing right and what’s so great about this program.”
When asked if the blame for close losses 
rests on the shoulders of the head coach, But-
ler said, “Yeah. No question.”
Former Florida guard Trumae Lucas said 
Butler struggles in close games.
“I feel like under pressure she kind of 
cracks. I’ll keep it there,” Lucas said. “I feel like 
she has her moments of being a good coach. But she hasn’t had that much experience as a head coach.”
Butler’s only previous head coaching expe-
rience was at Charlotte for two years. 
“I guess people feel like that if you played 
in your past that you can just come up and coach a D-I team to championships,” Lucas said.
But Jones disagreed with Lucas about But-
ler’s coaching under pressure, saying, “I think she loves it.
“She’ll call a timeout at the end and she’ll 
pump us up. She’ll be like this is it. I don’t think she cracks under pressure at all.”
“I’m the first person to examine the deci-
sions that we made,” Butler said. “There’s a million different things that you question yourself about, and you try to get better at it.”
Sitting at 14-13 after losing its fourth game 
in a row, Florida strung together three straight wins to close out its regular-season schedule.
Two of those games were contested until 
the final minutes, helping erase memories of the tough losses earlier in the year. Florida then won two straight to start the WNIT, and Butler talked about how the Gators were play-ing their best basketball and how much her young team progressed.  
Next up was a third-round game against 
Charlotte, Butler’s former team. Florida had never lost to Charlotte in five previous meet-
ings. 
In a rematch of the Preseason WNIT, But-
ler and the Gators traveled to North Carolina, 
where Florida squandered a 17-point lead in the second half. 
Charlotte won 81-77 in overtime, ending an 
up-and-down season for the Gators.
n n n
In April 2007, when Butler signed a six-
year contract worth $1.2 million in base salary plus incentives, UF athletics director Jeremy 
Foley said he sought a coach in the mold of 
Billy Donovan and Urban Meyer.
Butler, a fiery 5-foot-8 former Gators point 
guard and assistant coach, took over a program that won just nine games the year before. 
“The University of Florida has enjoyed a lot 
of success with young, talented coaches and those were the characteristics we were looking for in the person to lead our women’s basket-ball program. We found that person in Aman-da Butler,” Foley said in a 2007 press release.
And Butler herself wasn’t shy about her 
goals for the program. 
“We’re going to open up the Lady Gator 
women’s history book, and we’re going to 
write new chapters,” she said during her in-
augural press conference. “That is certainly something we aspire to do. That’s something we will do.” 
The Gators went on a run of seven straight 
NCAA Tournament berths from 1993-1999 and made trips to the Big Dance in 2000 and 2002 under former coach Carol Ross. They returned in 2004 and 2006 under Peck.
Butler was the point guard for Florida’s 
first-ever NCAA Tournament team and an assistant when the Gators went to their only 
Final Four in 1997-98.  
In 2006-07, when Peck was fired after a sea-
son featuring 22 losses, including 13 straight, 
she left behind a roster with three proven players in Sha Brooks, Marshae Dotson and Depree Bowden. 
When the three were seniors in 2008-09, 
Brooks and Dotson finished among the top-seven scorers in the SEC. The trio helped guide 
Florida to its first NCAA berth since 2006. UF 
was knocked out in the second round by even-
tual-champion Connecticut and hasn’t been to 
the tourney since. 
The Gators finished 15-17 last season, 20-15 
this season, and have gone to three WNITs in 
four years under Butler.
“I think we’ve not completely rewrit-
ten (the history books),” Butler said recently. “We’ve certainly had some good seasons and we’ve made tremendous strides. But that’s not what we’re shooting for.”
Through a UF spokeswoman, Associate 
Athletic Director Lynda Tealer declined an interview request to assess Butler’s perfor -
mance. 
“We want to win championships. We want 
to be the best in the country ,” Butler said. “We’ve still got that to accomplish.”
While it may not be the one Butler envi-
sioned on that day in 2007 when she was brim-
ming with confidence, she believes a suitable 
ending is still possible. 
“I didn’t have a timeline. I just wanted us 
to try and get better every day , and I think that we’ve done that,” Butler said. “I think that we’ve recruited kids that are putting us in position to do what we think we’re capable of doing. It’s a process, and we’re in the midst of it.”THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Women’s hoops becoming an oddity among UF sports
Saj Guevara / Alligator
Florida coach Amanda Butler walks off the floor following a 61-59 loss to Ole Miss on 
Feb. 3. The Gators lost nine games by six points or fewer this season.The Gator Substandard20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, MARCH 31, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida gymnastics coach Rhonda Faehn, right, said she and her assistant coaches have to 
be especially careful in making their personnel decisions given how dinged up her squad is.
Late-season injuries not an 
unusual obstacle for Gators
But with a week off from competi-
tion and the regional meet in sight, 
Faehn said the team is looking much better — and much healthier.
Dickerson said she is feeling a lot 
better, Caquatto’s ankle is mended and King will be able to perform the double layout in her floor routine. 
Faehn admitted a long season with 
a hefty load of competitions makes the 
tail end of the year difficult for the gym-
nasts both physically and mentally.  
Caquatto was used to performing in 
elite gymnastics, where she had about five competitions a year. She said com-peting almost every weekend has been 
a big change and an even bigger chal-
lenge. 
“Taking all the hard landings, it does 
take a toll on your body,” she said. “By 
this time of the season, everyone’s just like, ‘We’ve got to make it through.’”Because of the fatigue, Faehn said, 
the coaching staff also has to be espe-cially careful regarding its training de-cisions at this point of the season.
“If they don’t train, they’re not able 
to get the numbers in,” Faehn said. “If they’re not able to get the reps in, then they lose confidence. 
“They still have to be able to do it, 
but we have to be smart also combining short training days with mental imag-ery and really focusing on the mental aspect of it as well.”
But Faehn made it clear this occurs 
every single year across the board in gymnastics, no matter which team it is 
or how many gymnasts are dinged up 
heading into the postseason.
“Everybody is in the same boat,” she 
said. “It’s those athletes that are strong enough mentally and physically to be able to push through this hard time 
that are the ones who are going to be 
the most successful.” GYMNASTICS , from page 17
I’m not paying.”   
Then, off he trots to the D.A. 
Karl’s a real citizen.    
n n n
Now, Karl’s soliloquy makes sense.“You’re going to kill me. Aren’t you?” If Dom was packing a piece, he and Frankie 
would be facing attempted murder charges now. The Senate-seeking D.A. would have 
more fodder to feed the Westchester papers.
This cheese-eater, Karl, was a gambler 
who came up short. Rather than work out a 
payment plan, he ran to John Law with this scheme. 
Nice racket. This rat picks up about 
$20-large per week until he loses.   
After he loses, Karl baits and provokes 
whoever collects. Although this “to catch a thief” method of law enforcement works, I doubt it’s standard procedure. Only an ambi-tious D.A. would put it in play .    
Ironically , years later, the D.A.’s Senate 
plans are squashed because of her husband’s ties to organized crime.  
n n n
  The tab on Dom and Pazzo’s legal fees 
comes to $120-large, which we split $40,000 each. We are also out the $50,000 this weasel 
beat us for before the arrest, plus the $40,000 
he lost and refused to pay .  
This economic disaster, combined with our 
near pinch and a new mayoral election in New York, convinces us it’s the time to bequeath bookmaking back to the gangsters. 
When we started five years ago, David Din-
kins was mayor of New York. Dinkins played tennis and mopped his brow frequently at 
press conferences but couldn’t find shit on the 
bottom of his shoe. New York’s new Mayor, Rudy Giuliani, a 
former D.A., made his reputation as a crime buster. He vows to break the back of orga-
nized crime. His re-election depends on it. 
So, I change identities. I go from “Guido 
the gangster” to “back-of-the-line Fred.” 
No longer strutting, I melt into the huddled 
masses. 
n n n
In five years of bookmaking, I never ad-
dressed my gambling problem. 
I used bookmaking to stop losing, not to 
stop gambling. The more I won, the more juice 
I needed. 
Half a decade of fear and futility convinces 
me that bookmaking belongs in my rearview mirror. I’ll drive in a new direction.   
The road ahead will be anything but 
smooth. I’ll carry all my old friends: alcohol-
ism, drugs, gambling and manic depression. 
Then, an unexpected hitchhiker comes along to add more confusion to the tempest.       
n n n
My mania’s optimistic. Despite being laid, 
re-laid and parlayed, I’m down but not dis-
gusted. 
Slippery slopes are one thing, but I was 
halfway over Niagara Falls.
I’m not in jail.   My sickness stares at the sunny road ahead 
and spurs a scheme. 
Maybe I don’t have to give up my lifestyle. Maybe I can give up bookmaking, yet still 
make piles of money . 
Oddly enough, lightning strikes. I have a brainstorm.
Bill O’Connor is a Vietnam veteran, former 
Bronx firefighter and pub and restaurant owner. He is currently a journalism major at UF and a standup comic. The highly irreverent and acerbic O’Connor performs free standup in various loca-tions around Gainesville.BILL , from page 17