VOLUME 106 ISSUE 52 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF competes for title of most vegan-friendly school
Students can vote for UF online until Monday evening, pg 3.  
President Obama discusses student loan plans
He says reducing student debt will help the economy, pg 7. 
78/54 Man a noted character at midtown bars
Squirrel is known for his artistic posters and is an 
expert in Mario-ology , pg. 5. 
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 13 Haley Stracher / Alligator
  Another One Bites the Dust
  About 15 students drop down onto the pavement in the middle of Turlington Plaza on Tuesday afternoon, represent-
ing the students who drop out of high school every 26 seconds in the U.S. Read the story at alligator.org.   
  MINA RADMAN
 Alligator Writer
 
  Despite the football team’s recent losing 
streak, the Gators ticket ofﬁ  ce has not seen a 
decrease in demand for tickets to Saturday’s 
game.
  “The Homecoming game has a very good de-
mand because it’s Homecoming, which is usu-
ally an event that’s very well-attended,” said  
Mark Gajda, the assistant athletics director for ticket operations.
  As of 10 a.m. Tuesday, there were 500 non-
student tickets available for the game.
Gajda expects the tickets to sell out by Satur-
day. Ticket prices range from $50 to $325. 
  Saturday’s Homecoming game will be the 
football team’s ﬁ  rst game in Gainesville after 
losing four straight games on the road in Oc-
tober. 
The game will begin at 12:21 p.m. and will be  Football tickets 
expected to sell out by Saturday
ACTIVISM
  BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
 Alligator Contributing Writer
  Occupy Gainesville and Occupy 
UF are joining forces for six hours of 
protest today.
  At 12:30 p.m. on the Plaza of the 
Americas, Occupy UF will hold a “student speak-out.”
  “It is a free-speech event,” said 
Skye Schmelzer, 19, a psychology sophomore and organizer of Oc-cupy UF. “It is a way for people to speak their mind, be heard, express their opinions, become more aware and hopefully become more active.”
  After one hour, Occupy 
Gainesville will join Occupy UF, and both groups will march to Bo Diddley Community Plaza, the site of the Gainesville occupation.
  From 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., both 
organizations will protest on the cor-ner of East University Avenue and Southeast First Street.
  The demonstration schedule calls 
for students holding signs, chanting and joining in group discussions.
  The discussions will touch on the 
Federal Reserve, the economy and police brutality, Schmelzer said.
  During the weekly farmers mar-
ket on the plaza at around 4:30 p.m., Occupy Gainesville will host a “peo-ple’s mic speak-out.”
  She said the aim of the event is to 
get those attending the farmers mar-ket to get involved.
  For the ﬁ  rst time, Occupy UF will be ofﬁ  cially attending the Occupy Gainesville general assembly meet-ing at 6:30 p.m.
  “Gainesville has a large student 
population,” Schmelzer said. “And we deserve to be represented here. Even if we reside here temporarily, we deserve to be represented.”
  The two groups will not be ofﬁ  -
cially combining, but they are work-ing together for some of the events of the day , she said. 
 Occupy Gainesville, Occupy UF pair up for demonstration
� THE 60-YEAR-OLD MAN WAS TAKEN TO THE HOSPITAL BUT HAD NO LIFE-THREATENING INJURIES.
MORGAN WATKINS
 Alligator Staff Writer
  A man entered the Walmart on South-
west Archer Road Tuesday morning, but he didn’t use the front door. 
The man, driving alone in a PT Cruis-
er, slammed into the side of the Walmart, 
3570 SW Archer Road, at about 8:40 a.m. Tuesday. 
    As he was coming to a stop sign in 
front of the store, he accelerated forward into the building, according to witness ac-counts given to police. 
  “He was pinned in the vehicle,” said Sgt. Tscharna Senn of the 
Gainesville Police Depart-
ment.
“The ﬁ  re department 
had to cut him out.”
  The 59-year-old man 
was taken to the Malcolm 
Randall Veterans Affairs Medical Center on South-
west Archer Road.   He had no life-threatening injuries, but 
police were unable to speak with him as of 4 p.m. Tuesday because he was being checked for potential internal injuries.
  The Walmart remained open after the 
incident.
Some portions of the store were closed 
so debris could be cleared out from around the crash site, Senn said.  Man crashed PT Cruiser into side of Archer Road WalmartSEE TICKETS, PAGE 4
Senn
“It is a way for people to 
speak their mind, be heard, 
express their opinions, 
become more aware and 
hopefully become more     
active.”
Skye Schmelzer
psychology sophomoreJohn 
Brantley is 
healthy enough 
to take snaps 
from center. 
See story, Page 
13.News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 52 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Harold Rocha, Rachel Rowan,   
  Keri Smith, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
ASU Scholarship Pageant
Today, 6:30 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom
Contestants will compete to 
hold the honorary title of Mr. or Ms. Africa while guests indulge themselves in an el-
egant and entertaining night 
of glamour and the arts. This pageant will allow people to experience a variety of cultures through different 
mediums such as dance, at-
tire and poetry. This event is free and open to the public. For more information about 
the African Student Union, 
please contact ufafrisu@
gmail.com or visit asuatuf.
com.
Got Game?
Today, 7:30 to 9:30 p.m.Reitz Union Fourth Floor, Matthews Suite
Asian Kaleidoscope Month 
presents a presentation about Asian-Americans in sports today and in history, called “Got Game?” Discussion will 
focus on why there aren’t 
more Asian-Americans in sports. Visit www.ufak-
month.com for more infor -
mation. 
Educational Access Summit
Thursday, 6:30 to 9 p.m.
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom
Come out to the Educational 
Access Summit, hosted by 
the Gators’ College Access Network. First-generation col-lege, low-income and diverse 
background UF students are 
invited to discuss ways UF can 
best reach out to improve their college experience. The event ment.php. Temporary staff will have the opportu-
nity to gain permanent posi-
tions within MCDA after the 
spring.
Interpreti Veneziani
Sunday, 7:30 p.m. 
Phillips Center for the 
Performing ArtsItalian string ensemble Interpreti Veneziani makes 
its sixth appearance at the 
Phillips Center at 7:30 p.m. 
Sunday. Student tickets are $12. Visit performingarts.ufl.edu for more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject 
line to jflechas@alligator.
org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model 
your submissions after above 
events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.features keynote speakers Zina Evans, vice president for enrollment manage-
ment and associate provost 
for UF, and Joe Johnson, as-
sistant director of the UF Office of Academic Support. The event is sponsored by 
Student Government, OAP , 
OAS and MCDA. Free ad-
mission. For more informa-tion, visit the Educational Access Facebook event 
page.
AKM Fashion Show: MODE
Thursday,  7 to 9 p.m.
Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom
Asian-American designers 
will be sharing their collec-tions and insight into the fashion industry with UF and the Gainesville commu -
nity. The event will also fea-ture performances from local 
entertainers live on the run-
way. Visit www.ufakmonth.
com for more information.
MCDA Spring 2012 Staff 
Applications DueFriday by 4 p.m.
Multicultural and Diversity Affairs is hiring temporary staff for the spring and sum-
mer semesters. Deadline to 
submit applications is Friday 
at 4 p.m. Applications can be found online at www.multi-cultural.ufl.edu/employ-PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/60PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/60PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/55PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
78/54SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer
M. Jack Ohanian, former 
associate dean for research 
and administration and a professor of nuclear engi-neering at UF, died Monday.
He was 78 years old. His family had not re-
leased the cause of death at press time. 
Ohanian, who retired in 
2001, was a professor emeri-tus of nuclear and radiologi-cal engineering and a pas-sionate supporter of nuclear power. 
During his nearly 40 
years at UF, Ohanian served as interim vice president for research and interim dean of 
engineering.
He was also the former 
chairman for the American 
Association of Engineering 
Societies and former presi-
dent of the American Nucle-
ar Society . 
Win Phillips, an engi-
neering professor and senior vice president for research, 
worked with Ohanian at UF 
for more than 15 years.
Phillips said he and Oha-
nian worked together in the 
research and engineering de-
partments. 
“He was a kind man,” he 
said. “He cared about every-one else, but he was firm. He was a good administrator, and he was a good leader.
“He was a very impor -
tant person to this university , and we’ll all miss his leader -
ship.”
Courtesy to the Alligator
M. Jack Ohanian, former associate dean for research and administration and 
professor of nuclear and radiological engineering, 78, died Monday.
obitu Ary
Former professor, associate dean dies at 76
� STUDENTS CAN VOTE 
UNTIL MONDAY.
MARY ANNE EADES
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF entered the fourth 
round of the Most Vegan-
Friendly College Contest on Tuesday and could make it to the final round. 
The contest, sponsored 
by PETA, began with 32 in-stitutions in the large U.S. schools category. It has ta-pered down to UF and three competitors for the title of Most Vegan-Friendly.
A vegan does not eat any 
animal products.
The round winners are 
determined by the number of votes received, the qual-ity and variety of vegan foods offered, the schools’ enthusiasm for promoting the food options and stu-dent feedback, said Ryan Huling, manager of College 
Campaigns and Outreach at 
PETA.
Last year, UF made it 
only to the third round, but in November 2010, one stu-dent collected 2,000 signa-tures and petitioned Gator Dining Services to introduce Meatless Monday.
“My goal was not to have 
an entirely meatless campus but to set aside Mondays as 
a meatless day in the two 
dining halls,” said Jared Misner, a 21-year-old pub-lic relations senior and the campaign director for UF’s Meatless Monday.
Gator Dining controls 
the all-you-can-eat menus in each dining hall.
Misner is a former em-
ployee of the Alligator.
More vegan options 
were introduced on Mon-days with signs attributed to Meatless Monday to encour -
age student participation, said Jill Rodriguez, market-ing program manager for 
Gator Dining.
“Feedback from both stu-
dents and faculty has been 
positive,” Rodriguez said.
A vegan guide was also 
created, featuring all loca-tions on campus serving vegan options.
Huling encourages stu-
dents to vote for UF to show support and encourage the campus to continue to ex-pand vegan options.
Students can vote for UF 
by “liking” the Gator em-blem at features.peta2.com/Vegan-Colleges-2011.
V oting closes at 5 p.m. 
Monday . Results will be announced Nov . 21, and all nominees will receive a framed certificate to display on campus.
“We already have an 
enormous offering of vegan food at each dining hall,” Misner said. “But through this contest, UF has the unique potential to set the standard.”UF competes to be 
most vegan-friendly4, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
Alligator File Photo
The Student Senate voted to keep Library West open 24 hours five days a week in the spring. It will 
cost about $60,000 to run the pilot program.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Writer
Library West will be open 
24 hours a day Sunday through 
Thursday in the spring.
The Student Senate unanimous-
ly gave the final approval to the 
bill Tuesday night. 
SG will draw $59,174 from re-
serve funds to pay for the pilot 
project, which will run from Jan. 9 to May 4.
Senator Katie Waldman, one 
of the bill’s authors, said after the meeting that if students use the library enough, the library and 
UF administration would find a 
way to continue funding the long hours. 
SG might provide some future 
funding, but it would not cover all the costs, Waldman said.
The money will go toward pay-
ing the two library assistants, two student workers and two security 
guards who will be working dur -
ing the extended hours.
Waldman said in her presenta-
tion that one of the security guards 
will be at the doors to the library to check students’ Gator 1 ID cards starting at midnight.
She also said SG is working on 
the possibility of arranging after-hours transportation by Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol (SNAP) or Regional Transit System for stu-dents studying late at the library.
The basement and the first 
through fourth floors will be open, but Waldman said the fourth 
floor’s hours will depend on how 
many students use it. 
The library’s sixth floor will be 
open for graduate students.
This semester, Library West is 
open from 8 a.m. to 1 a.m. Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Friday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday and 10 a.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday.
The ground-floor Starbucks cafe 
will keep the same schedule as Li-brary West. 
However, if not enough students 
are lining up for late-night snacks and drinks, Starbucks might revise its hours, Waldman said.
Student Body Treasurer T.J. Vil-
lamil said he has already heard 
positive feedback from students.
“They really want a place where 
they can go and study all night,” 
he said. Senate passes bill to keep Library West open 24 hours in spring
Some students are trying to sell their tickets through Facebook
broadcast live on the SEC Network.
The Gators now have a 4-4 record and are not eligible 
for the SEC title. 
Should the team lose Saturday’s game, the Gators would 
be in danger of not qualifying for a bowl game for the first 
time since 1979, the Alligator reported Monday. 
Adam Shapiro, a 21-year-old industrial engineering se-
nior, has seen a loss of interest in Gators football.
Shapiro is looking to buy an extra ticket to Saturday’s 
Homecoming football game against Vanderbilt University, 
and the number of remaining tickets for sale both pleases and saddens him, he said.“The fact that there is a lot of tickets being sold for the 
Homecoming game, of all games, tells you that interest in our team has been all but lost for this season,” Shapiro said. “No one wants to go see a mediocre team who’s only play-ing the rest of the season for a shred of dignity.”
A Facebook group called “Gator Football Ticket Exchange 
2011” allows members to buy and sell both student and non-student tickets to the football games. As of Tuesday night, there were 86 posts in the group 
that advertised tickets for sale to Saturday’s game. 
The average asking price for a ticket was $30. Student football tickets bought through the Gators ticket 
office are $15, plus a $1.50 service charge when bought on-line through the unclaimed ticket sale.
The sale will be held at 6 p.m. Thursday at gatorzone.
com.  
Jon Rodriguez, a 20-year-old biology and anthropology 
junior, is planning to attend the football game, despite its recent losses.
“I just love the great atmosphere Homecoming provides,” 
Rodriguez said. “Hopefully, we’ll see the team do a lot bet-ter in November.”TickETS , from page 1� GAME LOSSES DO NOT DETER FANS.
MINA RADMAN
Alligator Writer
Instead of renting a hotel room, Maddy Sny-
der’s family will spend this weekend in her apart-
ment at Second Avenue Centre.
Snyder, a 20-year-old elementary education 
junior, said her mom, Frances, and aunt Maribeth 
Rothell usually alternate between renting a hotel 
room and staying with her when they visit.
“They figured Homecoming would be hard to 
get a hotel,” Snyder said.
Some Gainesville hotels are already sold-out 
for the Homecoming weekend. 
“Even though [the Gators are] not on a win-
ning streak, that hasn’t changed anything,” said Robert Knight, front-desk supervisor of the Holi-
day Inn at Southwest 13th Street and University 
Avenue.
The Holiday Inn is sold-out for all upcoming 
football games and usually sells out for home game weekends six to 12 months in advance, Knight said. The hotel, four blocks away from the stadium, charges $200 to $600 per night for a room on home game weekends. The average price for a room on a non-game day is about $169 
per night, Knight said.
The Reitz Union Hotel, located on the fifth and sixth floors of the Reitz Union, has a lottery 
system to determine who stays in the hotel’s 36 rooms during football game weekends, said Chris Kehn, the hotel general manager.
“We’ve been full for every football game for 
the past three or four years, and we are full this weekend,” Kehn said.
The hotel rooms are paid for in advance at a 
rate of $225 to $325 per night, and reservation cancellations are rare. 
For those still looking for hotel rooms, the 
Cabot Lodge at 3726 SW 40th Blvd. has rooms available for this weekend. It has had a number of cancellations for this weekend because the foot-ball team has lost recent games, said D.J. Tate, the 
hotel’s sales manager.
The hotel has dropped its standard rates for 
football game weekends to $179 per night as a re-
sult, and Tate said he still expects rooms to sell out Saturday night. 
“People don’t want to come when the team is 
losing, so a lot of regulars won’t make the trip,” he said. “But people who don’t come regularly are coming now because there’s room available.”Hotels fill up for game weekend
AMANDA COHEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
With a swift keystroke on a smart-
phone and a download of the Four -
square app, as of Monday, students, 
visitors and fans alike can “check in” to official UF buildings and events.
Foursquare uses the geo-locator 
technology built into smartphones to turn exploring physical places into a 
virtual game. Users can garner points, 
badges and mayorships for checking in to specific places and events. 
“The intent is to let students spread 
the message about the things they’re interested in,” said Bruce Floyd, UF 
social media specialist.
Followers of the UF Foursquare 
account can view lists of locations 
for on-campus printing, a campus tour and traditions that come directly from The F Book, Floyd said. While checking in, users will also receive historical facts like the story behind Century Tower or how Turlington Hall got its name, Floyd said.
UF isn’t currently planning perks 
such as discounts or prizes for check-ing into locations, which some com-panies offer through the app. How-ever, UF may offer these rewards in the future, Floyd said.  
Occasional Foursquare user and 
philosophy and criminology junior Vanessa Miller, 20, said if the appli-
cation offered discounts, she would 
definitely use it, but without them she probably wouldn’t.
Journalism sophomore Devon 
Abelman, 19, isn’t interested in using the app at all. 
“I’m not interested in checking in; 
I hardly do status updates on Face-book,” Abelman said. “It’s a privacy 
thing.”UF, Foursquare partner to 
bring game to students
“We’ve been full for every football 
game for the past three or four years, 
and we are full this weekend.”
Chris Kehn
hotel general manager
“I just love the great atmosphere Homecoming 
provides.” 
Jon Rodriguez
biology and anthropology juniorADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jonathan Palmer-Gilley’s dream job is to 
one day be a dishwasher at Balls Bar.
But he doesn’t really care to dream too 
much about his future. Palmer-Gilley, 
known to most midtown folk as “Squirrel,” 
is a living legend already. For him, that is 
more than enough. 
Squirrel reached celebrity status almost 
eight years ago when he started drawing anime-inspired posters for the Delta Gamma sorority. Today, he plants himself at mid-
town while surrounding students implore 
him for a custom-made poster. 
A 30-year-old man not much taller than 
5-foot-6, Squirrel is the furthest thing from threatening or daunting. Classmates nick-named him Squirrel in junior high after he 
climbed the school building to get a ball they 
hit. He’s always been athletic and nimble, so the name stuck. 
In 2005, a member of the Delta Gamma 
sorority saw Squirrel furiously drawing on the massive wooden bar at Balls. She walked 
up, introduced herself and then introduced 
him to all of her friends. The girls loved his giant-eyed caricatures around the bar, so he 
decided to make them a poster. Little did he 
know, his work would become iconic.
Squirrel spent the afternoons research-
ing the sorority at Library West and learn-ing about its colors and symbols. His first 28-by-22-inch poster depicted Delta Gam-
ma’s symbol, a giant anchor, surrounded 
by colorful caricatures of the girls he met that night. It was an instant hit, and they de-
manded more. 
Word of the posters spread, and sud-
denly other sororities and fraternities were asking for them. Six years later, students are 
still begging for a piece of Squirrel’s color-penciled artistry.
“No matter what, I am married to the an-
chor,” he said of Delta Gamma, holding his hand over his heart. “They discovered me, 
and from that day on I have served them.”
While some sororities and local bars have 
one or two posters, Delta Gamma has more than 50. The members are proud of his al-
legiance and even more proud to call him their friend.
“I always look for him when I go out,” 
said Melina Garcia, a 19-year-old business sophomore and a member of Delta Gamma.  
“He’s very eccentric and very funny. It’s flat-
tering that he cares about us and our posters so much. We are very lucky.” 
Today, when he walks into a bar at mid-
town, people immediately approach him about his art. He battles with himself about 
whether he should make posters for other 
sororities and fraternities. Sometimes girls from Delta Gamma will get jealous, and 
he doesn’t want to anger them. This is the 
downside of fame — sometimes it weighs you down.
As a midtown celebrity, Squirrel stays 
faithful to his favorite strip of eateries and bars. 
He’s never changed his routine. He 
wakes up, plays Super Mario Bros. on his Super Nintendo until noon and then rides 
his bike to midtown.
In the afternoons, he’ll sit at his second 
favorite bar, O!O Garden Grille — second to Balls, of course — and drink Sprite with a 
splash of grenadine, topped with maraschi-no cherries. 
If night falls and he feels like getting 
drunk, he’ll switch to a vodka and cran-berry juice, a stereotypical girly drink, but Squirrel doesn’t care. It is his favorite; local bartenders know this and will give it to him 
for free. 
Every waitress at O!O greets Squirrel 
as she walks past him. They all know him. Courtney is one of his favorites. She gives 
him extra cherries. For this, her character is centered on the poster he drew for the bar 
and restaurant. 
Baggy clothes drape his skinny frame, 
always jeans and a T-shirt. Sometimes he’ll wear T-shirts he received from liquor and 
beer promoters at midtown. Other times he’ll wear a Super Mario graphic tee. 
“I have a degree in Mario-ology,” he said 
as he slurped through the ice of his almost-empty glass. “Well, it’s fake, but I took the 
quiz online and became an expert.”
Squirrel graduated from high school in 
2000 but never went to college. He didn’t want to have to pay off loans or spend mon-
ey on textbooks. The Mario-ology degree is much more beneficial in his mind because it 
makes him happy.
He knows every Super Mario Nintendo 
game ever made. His artwork is based off the way the Nintendo characters look: col-
orful and blocky, like outdated video-game cartoons. 
In the mornings, he’ll play Mario Bros. 3, 
his favorite game, on his 1980s Super Nin-tendo console that is housed in his family’s 
apartment off Archer Road. 
Squirrel lives with his 76-year-old grand-
ma, who supports him and his adopted brothers and sisters. When she’s not living 
with his aunt in Williston, his mom lives there, too. 
When he was 11, Squirrel was put into 
foster care because his biological mother couldn’t take care of him. She was a drug 
addict. 
Though he’s a fan of alcohol, Squirrel 
said he won’t touch drugs. 
“I have no memory of her — what she 
looked like, who she was,” he said, shutting 
his eyes and shaking his head. “The only 
memory I have is my birth certificate.” 
At 12, after spending a year with his ad-
opted family in his home state of Connecti-cut, the clan, headed by his grandmother, 
moved to Gainesville. 
Now, Gainesville is home, and although 
he loves his grandmother, mother and ad-opted brothers and sisters, he considers that lively strip of bars and those who go there 
family. 
A loner at heart, he likes that he can relax 
by himself at the bars during the day, but it’s the bustling streets at night that he lives 
for. 
“I am the midtown ‘chosen one,’” he said 
proudly. “I have to protect it.”
In 2004, Squirrel started regularly visit-
ing Balls. 
He went into the small, run-down bar 
one night, made friends with the bartend-ers, drew on the dilapidated tables, danced 
by the doors and that was it. He had found 
a new spot, one where he could be himself and make new friends.  Suddenly, being there was the only thing that mattered, and people began to notice. 
“Because of the way he dresses and be-
cause of his color, he is stereotyped,” said Dustin Gordon, manager of Balls and one of the first guys to befriend him. “Yeah, it’s 
asinine, but it’s what we do. I did it, but then 
I got to know him, and now he is one of my best friends.”
Gordon, 25, is the reason Squirrel can get 
to and from midtown every day. He pooled some money together a few years ago and 
bought his friend a bike. Squirrel couldn’t 
afford one. It’s red with a silver duct-taped seat, and it’s locked on the bike rack every 
day across from the Swamp Restaurant 
until 2 a.m. when he rides it home to bed. Not only does Gordon help pay for his art 
materials, but he also lets Squirrel clean the 
bar after it closes. Lately, Gordon has even let him keep watch at the door. Though he’s 
not an official bouncer, Squirrel guards the 
door, sporadically standing straight-faced with arms crossed but mostly dancing to the 
jukebox.
“He just wants everyone around him to enjoy themselves and be happy,” Gordon 
said. 
Mid-afternoons, Squirrel goes to Library 
West on campus to draw his creations, using only colored pencils. Sometimes he’ll peruse Facebook on the computer. Most of the time 
he’ll have a new notification about a picture 
someone tagged of him dancing or posing with groups of women the previous night. 
Women eagerly line up around the bar to 
say hi and take pictures with him. This is the upside of fame — you get a lot of love.
When he’s finished at the library, usu-
ally around 5 p.m., he’ll scurry back up to midtown, artwork in hand, and wait for 
the night to arrive when he can unveil his 
newest creation, which he usually doesn’t charge for.
As far as pursuing art in the future:“I fear that if I go to school for drawing 
or do it for money, I will lose my love for 
it,” he said. 
He hopes his dishwashing position at 
Balls eventually will become an official one.
This way, he would get to be alone, but, 
at the same time, he would be surrounded 
by the places and people he loves most. 
“It probably won’t get you nowhere,” he 
added. “But it makes me happy.” WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
David Carr / Alligator
Jonathan Palmer-Gilley, aka Squirrel, a popular frequenter of midtown, is known for 
video-game-inspired posters he draws.
Artist makes his way with popular drawings, friendly smile
Squirrel is a common fixture at midtown bars
“Because of the way he dresses 
and because of his color, he is ste-
reotyped. Yeah, it’s asinine, but it’s 
what we do. I did it, but then I got to 
know him, and now he is one of my 
best friends.”
Dustin Gordon
manager of BallsReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR36 TOTAL VOTES78% YES
22% NOTuesday’s question:  Do you take proper 
safety measures in your dorm, house or apartment?Today’s question: Have you ever met Squirrel while out 
at midtown?Last year, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development reported that the U.S. fell to an “average” rating in terms of economic performance. 
According to last year’s report, the U.S. ranked 14 in reading 
skills, 17 for science and 25 for math, out of 34 countries. 
Clearly, reforms such as No Child Left Behind are not work-
ing. 
One of the main complaints about NCLB is that it focuses too 
much on testing as a standard to judge student performance. 
Teachers complain about teaching to the test rather than 
more important material. But are these complaints just talking points? 
Recently , Miami-Dade County Public Schools decided to 
make final exams and midterms optional for sixth- to 12th-grade students. 
Why make such a radical move? 
Because it already has federal, state and local assessments 
that students have to take throughout each school year. Some 
of these are state-mandated while others come from parts of NCLB. 
When schools worry about burdening their students with 
midterms and final exams, can they really say that a problem does not exist? 
Generally , teacher-created exams are a lot more challenging 
and help students learn the material better than standardized 
tests. Teachers have higher expectations than bureaucrats. But, 
because school funding is tied to these test results, teachers have to spend more time “teaching to the test” than focusing on im-portant material. 
Occasionally, like in Atlanta public schools, this can have dire 
consequences for our education system and, more importantly, the students. 
Georgia’s Criterion-Referenced Competency Tests determine 
whether a school makes “adequate yearly progress,” a criterion 
for the school to receive federal grants under NCLB. 
Atlanta teachers and principals at about 44 public schools in 
the district were accused of cheating on the CRCT in 2009. The 
district might be forced to give back about $1 million in grants to the federal government. 
While the teachers and administrators are at fault in this situ-
ation, one must recognize that the motivation for this behavior comes from the federal and state governments. 
The “testing” culture cultivated by top-down federal educa-
tion programs may create the image of success by producing “high” test scores on subpar tests, but they do little to advance our education system. 
It’s no wonder that fewer and fewer students come to college 
prepared to write extensive papers, take essay exams or stay fo-cused during a lecture.Stupid System
Standardized tests 
clearly don’t help
Guest column
Obama is no better than Che Guevara
In yesterday’s paper, the Alligator re-published a col-
umn by Dartmouth College student Alesy Iturrey condemning Ernesto “Che” Guevara and the wide-
spread use of his image.
The author’s anger toward Che seems out of place for 
a student who simultaneously glorifies President Barack Obama and the NATO bombing campaign in Libya. 
Before condemning the famous Argentine revolution-
ary, Iturrey should look a bit closer to home if she is truly concerned about human rights violations.
The NATO-backed Libyan rebels, supported by 
Obama, have systematically targeted, tortured and 
lynched black African migrants in Libya. Comprised of 
an unholy alliance between al-Qaida and Western-edu-cated corporatists interested in privatizing Libya’s oil, these so-called ‘rebels’ have a lot more in common with 
the Ku Klux Klan than the bogus freedom-fighter image 
painted by Iturrey.
One of the most startlingly naïve contradictions in 
yesterday’s piece was Iturrey’s condemnation of Che for carrying out executions “without due process.” The iro-
ny isn’t lost on anyone who remembers how Col. Moam-
mar Gadhafi was executed without a trial as a P.O.W. 
Gadhafi was brutally sodomized with a knife and tor -
tured before one of the rebels delivered the death blow, 
after which his body was mutilated and placed on grisly 
display in a commercial freezer by the new rebel govern-ment.
Why does Iturrey condemn Che, someone who died 
more than 44 years ago, when President Obama current-
ly aids and supports bloodthirsty fascists like the Libyan 
rebels?
The U.S. consistently glorifies the image of leaders 
who have a “complete disregard for human life or civil 
rights.” Hanging in public schools for eight years was 
the portrait of President George W. Bush, responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of innocent Iraqis. That same leader of “the most well-known example of de-mocracy” in the world also 
conducted illegal surveillance 
on innocent American citizens without court warrants and  
incarcerated people without due process.
Since his ascension to the presidency, Obama and 
the Democrats have been eager to continue, enforce and further expand on these policies, as evidenced by im-pending indictments on the 14 anti-war activists whose homes were raided by the FBI last September for their 
dissent. 
According to research conducted by the ACLU and 
the U.N., the U.S. has, in the past four years, violated 
international law numerous times. Some violations in-
clude the use of drones on civilian-dense populations, 
continued CIA-led renditions and the systematic use of torture on Americans and non-U.S. citizens alike in Af-ghanistan, Guantanamo Bay, Iraq and prisons through-out our own country. More than 120 individuals de-
tained and tortured have died in U.S. custody. 
We agree, it’s misguided to compare President Obama 
with a message of hope. What hope has Obama offered 
the more than 2,000 Libyans annihilated by NATO’s 
ruthless bombing campaign of the city of Sirte earlier 
last month?
We affirm Iturrey’s commitment “to become more 
informed of world issues.” She should start by taking a close look at the present atrocities and human rights 
violations committed by our own government.
And the next time Iturrey wants to condemn people 
for glorifying a so-called “ruthless leader,” she ought to 
open her wallet and take a good look at the mass mur -
derer staring back at her on our $20 bill.
Dave Schneider and Cassia Laham are political science 
seniors at UF.Dave Schneider
& Cassia Laham
Speaking Out WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
Gator Growl will be a great experience
Greetings, Gators!
It’s that time of year again. The weather 
is cooler, the banners are up and the fliers 
are out. 
That’s right Gators, it’s Homecoming 
Week! 
No week embodies the spirit of the Gator 
Nation like Homecoming. 
With classes canceled on Friday, the best 
way to celebrate Gator tradition and pride is to attend the nation’s largest student-run pep rally: Gator Growl. 
Gator Growl began many years ago and 
has since grown to become a major staple of Gator history. This year’s show will not dis-appoint. 
The entertainment lineup will surely be 
one to remember. This year, Gator Growl is bringing back a live band. 
The Grammy-nominated Goo Goo Dolls 
will be performing live and singing many of 
its 14 top 10 singles. 
In years past, the stage was at either the north or south end zones. 
This year, the stage will be set up in 
the student section on the east end of The 
Swamp, offering both students and alumni the best view. 
The Gainesville sky will also once again 
shine with  fireworks, which have been gone since 2008. 
As your elected leaders, we encourage 
you all to buy tickets for this great experi-
ence! This Friday night, we don’t want you 
to miss out. Student tickets cost $15 and gen-eral admission tickets cost $25. Despite its re-
cent struggles, the Gator football team needs our student support to help it on to victory against Vanderbilt on Saturday. Come sup-port it at Gator Growl on Friday to cheer our Gators to victory. Come on, Gators, get up and growl!
As always, go Gators!
Anthony Reynolds,                                        
Juan Rodriguez & T.J. Villamil
Student Body president,                                
vice president, & treasurer
During the last few weeks, I’ve had the opportunity 
to get out of Washington and talk with folks across the country about how we can create jobs and get 
our economy growing faster.
This is a tough time for a lot of Americans — especially 
young people. You’ve come of age at a time of profound change. The world has gotten more connected, but it’s 
also gotten more competitive. And for decades, too many 
of our institutions — from Washington to Wall Street — failed to adapt, culminating in the worst financial crisis and recession since the Great Depression.
For the last three years, we’ve worked to stabilize the 
economy, and we’ve made some progress. But we still have a long way to go. And now, as you’re getting ready to head out into the world, many of you are watching your friends and classmates struggle to find work. You’re won-
dering what’s in store for your future, and I know that can 
be scary.
The truth is, the economic problems we face today 
didn’t happen overnight, and they won’t be solved over -
night. But the fact that you’re investing in your education 
right now tells me that you believe in the future of Amer -
ica. You want to be a part of it. And you know that there 
are steps we can take right now to put Americans back to work and give our economy a boost.
The problem is, there are some in Washington who just 
don’t share that sense of urgency. That’s why it’s been so disappointing to see Republicans in Congress block jobs bills from going forward — bills that independent econo-mists say could create millions of jobs through the kinds 
of proposals supported by Democrats and Republicans in 
the past.
Now, the best way to attack our economic challenges and put hundreds of thousands of people back to work is through bold action in Congress. 
That’s why I’m going to keep 
demanding that members of Congress vote on common-sense, paid-for jobs proposals. And I hope you’ll send them a message to do the right thing for your future and 
the future of our country.
But we can’t wait for Congress to do its job. So where 
they won’t act, I will. That’s why I’ve announced a new 
policy that will help families whose home values have fallen refinance their mortgages and save thousands of 
dollars. We made it easier for veterans to get jobs, put-
ting their skills to work in hospitals and community health centers.
And at the University of Colorado at Denver, I an-
nounced steps we’re taking to make college more afford-able and to make it even easier for students like you to get out of debt faster.
Michelle and I know what it feels like to leave school 
with a mountain of debt. We didn’t come from wealthy 
families. By the time we both graduated from law school, 
we had about $120,000 worth of debt between us. And even though we were lucky enough to land good jobs with steady incomes, it still took us almost 10 years to finally 
pay it all off. 
It wasn’t easy.
Living with that much debt forces you to make some 
tough choices. And when a big chunk of every paycheck goes toward student loans, it isn’t just painful for you – it’s 
painful to our economy and harmful to our recovery.
That’s why we’re making changes that, starting next 
year, will give about 1.6 million students the ability to cap their loan payments at 10 percent of their income. 
We’re also going to take steps to help you consolidate 
your loans so that instead of making multiple payments to multiple lenders every month, you only have to make one 
payment a month at a better interest rate. And we want to start giving students a simple fact sheet called “Know Before You Owe,” so you can have all the information you 
need to make your own decision about paying for college. 
That’s something Michelle and I wish we had.
These changes will make a real difference for millions 
of Americans. We’ll help more young people figure out how to afford college. We’ll put more money in your pock-
et after you graduate. We’ll make it easier to buy a house 
or save for retirement. And we’ll give our economy a boost at a time when it desperately needs it.
That’s not just important for our country right now – 
it’s important for our future. 
Michelle and I are where we are today because our col-
lege education gave us a chance. Our parents and their generation worked and sacrificed to hand down the dream of opportunity to us.
Now it’s our turn. That dream of opportunity is what 
I want for my daughters and for all of you. And even in these tough times, we are going to make that dream real once again.
In the weeks ahead, I’m going to keep doing every-
thing in my power to make a difference for the American people, including young people like you. Because here in America, when we find a problem, we fix it. When we face a challenge, we meet it. We don’t wait. And I hope you’ll 
join me.
Barack Obama is the 44th president of the United States. 
Via UWire.Making it easier to pay off student loans will help the economyUWire
Barack Obama
UWire� HE IS CHARGED WITH THEFT, 
WIRETAPPING AND HACKING.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
LOS ANGELES — A Florida man was 
charged with hacking into the emails of 
Christina Aguilera, Scarlett Johansson and Mila Kunis in a computer invasion scheme that targeted Hollywood celebri-
ties, federal authorities said Wednesday.
Christopher Chaney, 35, of Jackson-
ville, was arrested without incident as 
part of a yearlong investigation of celeb-rity hacking that was dubbed “Opera-tion Hackerazzi.” Chaney, who was ex-pected to appear in a Florida courtroom later Wednesday, was charged with 26 counts of identity theft, unauthorized 
access to a protected computer and wire-
tapping.
If convicted, he faces up to 121 years 
in prison. It wasn’t immediately known if he had retained an attorney.
Authorities said Chaney was respon-
sible for stealing nude photos taken by Johansson herself that were later posted on the Internet. Chaney offered some 
material to celebrity blog sites but there 
is no evidence that he profited from his scheme, said Steven Martinez, assistant director in charge of the FBI’s Los Ange-les office.
“Celebrity information is highly mar -
ketable,” said Martinez, who added that his office continues to receive complaints about celebrities’ having their personal 
information breached.
There were more than 50 victims, 
including Kunis, Aguilera and actress 
Renee Olstead. Others were named only by initials and investigators wouldn’t identify if they were famous, but said those who were named as victims in the indictment agreed to have the identities made public.
“It helps get out the message that 
cyber-hacking is a real threat,” said U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte, who called those who engage in such activity as “scum.”
Chaney hacked Google, Apple and 
Yahoo email accounts beginning last No-vember through February , then hijacked the forwarding feature so that a copy of every email received was sent, “virtually 
instantaneously ,” to an email account he 
controlled, according to an indictment handed up Tuesday by a federal grand jury in Los Angeles.
He allegedly used the hacker names “trainreqsuckswhat,” ‘’anonygrrl” and “jaxjaguars911,” and also used the vic-tims’ identities to illegally access and control computers. Chaney is accused of damaging email servers that caused losses of at least $5,000 per instance.
Authorities wouldn’t say whether 
Chaney was able to access email ac-counts via cellphones, but he was able to figure out secure passwords to various celebrity accounts through information that had been made public.
A message seeking comment was left 
on an answering machine for a Christo-pher Chaney in Jacksonville. There was no answer at a telephone listing for an-other Christopher Chaney.
Celebrities and people in the news have long been targets of privacy inva-sion but concerns have redoubled in the Internet age.
In Britain, publisher Rupert Murdoch 
closed down the News of the World this year after contentions that the tabloid routinely hacked into people’s phones in 
the hunt for exclusive stories.
The paper, which had published for 
168 years, faced allegations of system-
atically intercepting private voicemail of those in the news — including a teenage murder victim.
Investigators said they hope the ce-
lebrity-infused case will jumpstart those who don’t value online security enough to protect their personal information and create more secure passwords.8, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
AP Photo
Christopher Chaney, 35, of Jacksonville, leaves federal court in Los Angeles on 
Tuesday. He was arrested as part of a yearlong investigation of celebrity hacking. 
STEPHANIE LIEBLICH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Brittany Jacobs, 20, a mechanical engi-
neering junior, received her first free flu 
shot from the Student Health Care Center 
this fall. 
Unlike Jacobs, many students don’t 
take free flu shots offered on campus due 
to lack of medical knowledge and misun-
derstandings surrounding the vaccine.
“Every time I pass by the flu shot sta-
tion in winter I tell myself I should do it, 
but I never do,” she said.
Jacobs, like many students, waited un-til she actually got sick to start protecting herself.
GatorWell Health Promotion Services 
and the SHCC stress the importance of 
the flu shot to students and debunk myths 
surrounding the vaccine.
The most common of these myths 
among students is that you can actually contract the flu virus from getting the flu 
vaccine.
“I’ve heard of students being afraid 
to get the flu shot because of the fact 
that they might experience the flu, but sometimes it’s the way that the body reacts,” said Joi Alexander, health promotion specialist for GatorWell.  
This reaction to the shot, which is not ac-tually the flu, should go away in two or three days.
Catherine Seemann, marketing special-
ist for the SHCC, understands that many 
of the students with the belief that the flu 
shot can give you the flu are actually con-fusing the flu with the common cold.Another important thing to know is 
that the flu vaccine does not protect the body from the flu virus until two weeks after vaccination, she said. 
And, although rare, you might get 
sick after a flu shot if there is a flu vi-rus strain circulating that is not covered by that season’s flu shot, Seemann said.  
The Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention  conducts research that will accu-
rately predict what strains of the flu virus should be covered by the flu vaccine that season, she said.
“Nearly all of the time,” she said, “the 
vaccine will protect you.” 
For more information from the SHCC 
about the flu vaccine, visit shcc.ufl.edu/services/primary-care/flu/.Despite myths, flu vaccine does not lead to illness
Jacksonville man charged with celebrity 
hacking appears in court in Los Angeles
ASSOCIATED PRESS
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. — For 20 years, Abdurra-
him el-Keib taught electrical engineering at the Uni-
versity of Alabama, helped lead the area’s Muslim community and talked little about his home coun-try of Libya. With Moammar Gadhafi’s regime de-
posed, the professor now has a new role as prime 
minister of his homeland.
El-Keib was elected late Monday by Libya’s Na-
tional Transitional Council and will replace outgoing interim Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril, who had promised to step down after victory over Gadhafi’s dictatorship. His selection suggests the country’s in-terim rulers may be seeking out a government lead-er palatable both to the West and to Libyans who 
distrust anyone connected to the former regime.
El-Keib holds a doctorate in electrical engineer -
ing from North Carolina State University , where he 
also taught, and moved to Alabama in 1985, accord-ing to a biography posted by a former employer, the 
Petroleum Institute in the United Arab Emirates.
Online documents show el-
Keib was at the University of 
Alabama for 20 years, becoming 
involved with the faculty senate and serving as a speaker repre-senting Muslims to other faith communities in the city after the 9/11 terror attacks.
The professor spoke at a Christian church in 
Tuscaloosa about the beliefs of Muslims in Janu-ary 2002, and longtime friend Mirza Beg, a chemist 
at the Geological Survey of Alabama, said el-Keib 
helped raise money for a new Islamic center that opened in Tuscaloosa more than a decade ago near the university’s football stadium.
Beg, a native of India, said he and el-Keib worked 
together on the project and became better friends af-ter the 9/11 attacks as they served as informal liai-sons between Tuscaloosa’s Muslims and people of other faiths.
Beg said his friend rarely discussed Libya.“The reasons were obvious. It was a dictatorship, 
and it was not comfortable for him to talk about be-cause his extended family lived there,” Beg said.
El-Keib lived in the United States for more than 
30 years during Gadhafi’s reign, Beg said. El-Keib later worked as a professor and chairman of the electrical engineering department at The Petroleum Institute, according to the resume posted by the 
school.Former Alabama 
professor elected 
as Libyan premierReaction to shot should go away in three days
“Every time I pass by the flu 
shot station in winter I tell myself I 
should do it, but I never do.”
Brittany Jacobs
mechanical engineering junior
El-Keib
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Now Leasing for January 2012
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive & Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $339
w/$100 credit!
3/3’s @ $429 with 42” TV
Going Fast! 352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-21/1 East at $469, 1/2 off 2nd month*
$99 Move In Special
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
*ESCAPE THE ORDINARY*
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
www.thelaruelsuf.com  352-335-4455
12-7-11-74-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
12-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.
Great pools • Fitness • Tennis
Call for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’s
BivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $689 * 3/2's from $829
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: 
surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
12-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory Refurbished
Check Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com
4-25-11-99-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-
74-11
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
11-30-11-61-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-1296 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $1999
01 DODGE NEON $1999
00 OLDS ALERO $2500
352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $8999
03 MITS ECLIPSE $7999
05 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999
352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      11-3-11-74-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.comThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14
 ●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   11-17-20-14
Magician Needed
for company party on December 9th from 
6:00 - 7:00 pm. Please call 352-514-3436.  11-7-11-10-14
Legal Secretary/Receptionist. $9/hour. F/T. 
Needs to be responsible, diligent, and de-pendable. Call 352-371-4000.   11-16-11-15-14
Law clerks needed for research
& drafting on criminal appeals. 
flex hrs., $12/hr to start, send 
resume to Alex Paralegal, 7758 
SE83 Ct. Newberry, FL 32669
11-4-11-8-14
Web Programmers (.NET) jobs and intern-
ships available at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume to hr@352media.com.   11-8-11-10-14
Search Engine Optimization (SEO) spe-
cialist wanted at Gainesville's 352 Media Group. Email resume and SEO samples to hr@352media.com    11-8-11-10-14
Net Enforcers Software Engineer. FT position 
developing web applications. Experience in SQL query development and Amazon Web. Email resumes toahjobs@intersections.com    11-2-11-5-14
12, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION FT
ECG Department
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Specialists
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A       11-2-5-14
ATTTENTION STUDENTS
Part time help needed at Westgate Home 
Sales. Please contact Matt for details 352-
378-2453 x 19   11-9-11-10-14
Freight Up = More $ 2 Mos. CDL Class A 
Driving Exp (877)258-8782 www.melt-
ontruck.com    10-288-1-14
UF Survey Research Center
Spanish speakers needed!
Must work during upcoming breaks
(not on holidays)
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.50-$9.00/hr + Incentive
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
11-3-11-5-14
WANTED
Energetic, hard-working, individuals eager to 
assist customers with high-quality sporting goods and shoes. Full and part time opportu -
nities. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St. 
No phone calls please.    11-4-5-14
Designer/Sales-part/full time. No exp.nec.
Assist cust. choosing styles, colors etc. Must 
work Sat. $8/hr min. Can earn $50k+/yr. 
Apply at Furniture Kingdom Plus...3310 NW 
23rd Ave    11-4-11-5-14
Marketing Assistant, P/T.
Assists with marketing and PR
for O'Connell Center. If
interested send e-mail 
to musson@ufl.edu
11-4-5-14
Medical assistant needed for busy dermatol -
ogy office. Part-time position available, 10-20 
hrs wk. This is an ideal position for pre-med, nursing or allied health student. Will train en-ergetic, enthusiastic individual. Medical asst certificate not required. Email resume toofmgrbeers@aol.com.    11-7-5-14
Busy Dermatology office seeking medical
billing / front office assistant. Ideal forbusiness or similar major. Part-timeposition leading to possible full-time with management potential. email resume toofmgrbeers@aol.com.    11-7-5-14
RESEARCH PARTICIPANTS NEEDED 
FOR LANGUAGE STUDY! Must be a na-tive Japanese speaker. Benefits may include improved pronunciation of English language sounds. Interested? Please contact: ufapha-sialab@gmail.com or (352) 273-3714 for in-formation.    11-3-11-2-14
Bench Scientist: Self-motivated individual 
with good attention to detail to work in an-tibody purification and kit development. Knowledge of ELISA methodology and basic immunology is desirable. Basic laboratory skills and ability to manage multiple projects required. B.S. in scientific field preferred; laboratory experience may be substituted. Send resume to info@elisa-tek.com.   11-8-11-5-14
Looking for a fitness model for website. 
Please, send pic & info to ergofit101@gmail.com or ergofit101.com. Photography should take less than 1 hour at a popular G'ville gym. You will receive name credit & $25 visa card.    11-7-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Need An Epic Photographer?
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-672-5206
12-7-78-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100 
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696   11-
9-11-30-15
COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking
● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 
1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote
11-22-11-20-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
ADOPTION. Choose a loving & secure family 
waiting to adopt. Living & medical expenses 
paid. Updates on your child.
Call 24hr/7day. 1-800-280-6155. 
Amy Eichman(Bar#830011)    11-14-11-30-
16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and 
Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets 
Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi -
vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One 
at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18
VIBRAM 5-FINGERS
Awesome selection of the super hot Vibram 
5-fingers shoes. Styles for causal wear, working out and running. Come check 'em out. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St. 
One mile north of UF on 13th St.   11-4-5-18
FLIP FLOP SALE
All flip flop sandals on sale now. Reef, Teva, 
Sanuk, Roxy and Quiksilver. 15-30% off. Great selection. Lloyd Clarke Sorts 1504 NW 13th St. 372-7836    11-4-5-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Gainesville "Doobie Toss" The Video! 
Features "The Toss" 1992-'93! Now on DVD! Includes interview with the late and lovable, "Guru of Ganga," Jack Herer, and the USDA's 1942 film "Hemp for Victory!" Help fund the Hempfest! SAT. NOV. 5 Gainesville's Downtown BO Diddley Plaza! Donnations Greatfully accepted! Jodi- FL C.A.N. 321-253-3673Doobietosservideo@gmail.com    11-4-11-7-20One random winner will receive a $25 visa 
card. Just like www.GoBud.org Travel/
Leisure on FB. Winner will be announced on 
Dec 1, 2011.   11-8-4-21
GATOR SOUTH CAROLINA 
FOOTBALL TIX (2) 352-278-8166    
11-3-5-22
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad 
in the classifieds to find trip arrangements 
or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.The Doobie Tosser says that you should 
Google this video! "UFOTV Presents: The 
Hemp War Conspiracy!" This is the film that the US Gov. does not want you to see!    11-4-11-7-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
12-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new 
things. The existing order of surfdom can-
not remain unchanged. It is better to abol -
ish surfdom from above than to wait until 
the surfs begin to liberate themselves from 
below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to 
change what you thought a store could be.    
11-22-30-21
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Not The Same Old Vandy
With Vanderbilt much improved this season, will Florida be able to avoid 
a five-game losing streak this Saturday? Vote online at alligatorSports.
org. Poll Results
Sitting at 4-4, are you worried about the Gators making it to a postseason bowl this season?Mia Piccio (left) leads after two rounds at the Betsy Rawls Invitational as UF tries for its first title this year. See Story, Page 16.Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
After taking all but one snap from the shotgun formation against Georgia, quarterback John Brantley has healed enough to start working from under center in practice this week. Offensive coordinator Charlie Weis said he will evaluate Brantley’s progress throughout the week to determine Saturday’s gameplan.
� HE WORKED FROM 
SHOTGUN AGAINST UGA.
GREG LUCA 
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida senior quarterback 
John Brantley is able to play from 
under center and has even been 
politicking for more under-center snaps this week, offensive coordi-nator Charlie Weis said. 
Against Georgia, Brantley 
took all but a single snap from shotgun. Weis subbed in fresh-man quarterback Jacoby Brissett early in the third quarter to run 
an under-center play on third and 
13 from UF’s 1-yard line. 
Weis added that Brantley will 
take both shotgun and regular 
snaps against Vanderbilt, al-
though Weis will evaluate his 
performance in each situation and 
adjust accordingly . 
“We’ll just have to wait and see 
how the week goes,” Weis said. “His mobility is better this week than it was last week. But I’m not going to come in here on Tuesday and sit there and say , ‘By the way , John’s not moving very well, so we’re going to sit there and shot-gun snap the whole game.’”
Rainey probable: Senior run-
ning back Chris Rainey is prob-able for Florida’s game against Vanderbilt, Weis said. 
Rainey’s right ankle was in-
jured in the first quarter Saturday against Georgia, and he wore a protective boot Monday, accord-ing to multiple sources close to the team. 
Weis said Rainey wouldn’t 
be at full speed if the game were Tuesday , but his status will not 
be determined until Saturday . For 
backs like Rainey and senior Jeff 
Demps, who rely on their speed and quickness, injuries of this na-ture can be detrimental. 
“Their whole game is their 
speed,” Weis said. “If by Saturday Brantley healthy 
enough to take 
snaps from center
We’re dealing with a depth mis-
perception right now. 
When talking football, we re-
spect the issue. Kind of. But not enough. Name any problem related to Florida’s 
Oh-For October. I bet you find depth at 
its root. 
Turnovers? Penalties? Pocket prob-
lems? Piss-poor pass coverage? Those are all signs of undisciplined players. And the fact that those same players take the field week after week, making the same 
bone-headed mistakes proves just how 
thin Florida is.
Will Muschamp can’t effectively pun-
ish players for making mistakes because 
he doesn’t have a choice. The Gators only have 61 players left from their last four signing classes. On average, the four teams that beat Florida last month had 72 players remaining from those classes.
Muschamp has talked all season 
about the team’s lack of depth, and of course Florida would lose a lot of players as it transitioned from the Urban era. Players who were recruited by one coaching 
staff just don’t 
like the new guys, so they bolt.
But that’s not the problem.Looking at the 2008-11 signing class-
es, the Gators have lost 23 players before 
they exhausted all four years of eligibility. 
If that number seems high, it’s not. Those 
four teams that beat Florida in October, 
(those deeper teams) lost more athletes in the last four years than the Gators did.
Alabama, LSU, Auburn and Geor -
gia have lost an average of 30.5 players early. 
They oversigned, stockpiling recruits 
knowing full well those wild and crazy 
kids wouldn’t all cut it. Some transferred Oversigning opponents 
will soon underwhelmTHE JETT STREAM
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
It’s one thing to lose as time expires, but 
the Gators have been setting themselves 
up for defeat 85 minutes sooner. 
As No. 23 Florida (14-6, 7-4 South-
eastern Conference) prepares to take on Georgia (12-5-2, 6-3-2 SEC) tonight in the opening round of the SEC Tournament in Orange Beach, Ala., it will try to put a stop to the slow starts that have plagued it throughout conference play.
The Gators have allowed a goal in the 
first five minutes four times since SEC ac-tion started, including in three of their last four games. Only once in those games, a 2-1 loss to South Carolina in the regular-season finale, were they able to respond with a goal in the first half. 
Defensive turnovers against Tennes-see and South Carolina led to early goals. In order to limit the giveaways and easy scores, Florida defenders are trying to re-main focused.
“It’s just staying composed in the back 
and staying calm,” sophomore outside back Maggie Rodgers said of the early 
goals. “Sometimes we’ll get out of rhythm and make a couple mistakes and that is 
how most teams score on us.”
The Gators have struggled offensively 
early in games as well. Freshman forward Annie Speese attributes the offense’s strug-gles to letting the angst of trailing bother them.
“We just need to relax and have fun,” 
Speese said. “It’s just been a lot of pres-sure.”Gators to be more aggressive 
on offense in SEC tourneySEE NOTEBOOK, p AgE 15
SEE TYLER, p AgE 15SEE SOCCER, p AgE 14UF Soccer
Tyler Jett
twitter: @tyler__jett
75% YES
25% NO
120 total votes14, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
       Auburn  (11-6-2, 5-5-1 SEC)
Though Auburn sits in its lowest-ever SEC Tourna -
ment seeding following two consecutive losses, 
the Tigers are set up with a favorable matchup. On Oct. 14, Auburn beat LSU 3-1 at home, snapping a five-game losing streak to its West division rival.#7
       LSU (13-6-1, 8-3 SEC)
After opening the season at 1-3, the Tigers 
showed resilience by surging to their fourth SEC West division title in the last five years. Along with Florida, LSU is one of the most consistent teams in the SEC Tournament, with four straight semifi -
nals appearances.#2
       Kentucky (13-6, 6-5 SEC)
If the Wildcats are going to score their second 
upset against the Volunteers this season, it will likely come through senior Kelsey Hunyadi. As a Second Team All-SEC forward, Hunyadi has scored more than a third of Kentucky’s goals with 12 on the season — the second most in the conference.#6
       Tennessee  (14-5, 7-4 SEC)
As the conference leader in shutouts and goals 
allowed, Tennessee has maintained a stingy defense that has only sacrificed two goals in the last six games. The Wildcats were held scoreless for more than 105 minutes against the Volunteers earlier this season before pulling out a double-overtime game-winner.#3       Alabama  (9-7-3, 4-5-2 SEC)
In its first trip to Orange Beach, Ala., since 2008, 
Alabama faces the toughest draw of the tourna -
ment against a red-hot South Carolina team. The Crimson Tide showed signs of life in the season finale, as they downed the seventh-seeded Tigers. #8
       South Carolina  (15-5, 9-2 SEC)
Led by SEC Offensive Player of the Year Kayla 
Grimsley’s 10 goals and nine assists, South Carolina has enjoyed a banner season in league play culminating in a 2-1 win against five-time defending champion Florida for the regular-season conference title. #1
       Georgia (12-5-2, 6-3-2 SEC)
Like the Gators, the Bulldogs have struggled 
this season with finishing opportunities in close games. Georgia has gone three straight matches without a goal during the run of play, resulting in two ties and a loss. At home on Sept. 23, UGA was again held scoreless in a 1-0 loss to UF.#5
       Florida (14-6, 7-4 SEC)
The Gators have won two out of the last four SEC 
Tournaments, but they can’t rest on past laurels. This team has uncharacteristically collapsed down the stretch with three losses in four games and the worst league record in school history. #43-2.
* Non-qualifiers for tournament: Vanderbilt, Arkansas, Ole Miss and Mississippi StateSemifinals: 
Friday 
@ 6 P.M.Semifinals: 
Friday
@ 8:30 P.M.Finals: 
Sunday
@ 3:30 P.M.Wednesday
@ 6 P.M.
Wednesday@ 8:30 P.M.Wednesday
@ 1 P.M.
Wednesday
@ 3:30 P.M.
Alligator StaffBurleigh borrows drill from Donovan
Coach Becky Burleigh believes one of 
the causes is a lack of aggressiveness on 
offense.
“We were a bit tentative to start that 
game,” said Burleigh, referring to the 
loss against South Carolina. 
“For us, psychologically, that was 
tough because we’ve been in so many 
situations in recent weeks where we give up an early goal, and all of a sud-
den your mindset is saying, ‘Ugh, here 
we go again.’”
During practice on Sunday, in order 
to help the offense in high-pressure situ-ations, Burleigh put her team through 
a drill she stole from basketball coach 
Billy Donovan.
The players had to finish 60 goals 
in eight minutes. They made just 37 on their first chance.
The next time 
they did it, they fin-
ished with 20 sec-
onds remaining.
“It was an eye-opener to them to see 
how much they can raise their level,” Burleigh said. “Any kind of simulated 
pressure is a good thing for us at this 
point.”
The longer it takes the Gators to re-
bound from that early goal, the more likely it is the opposition will drop into 
a bunker.
If there is no bunker, Burleigh said 
it is still imperative that the Gators not 
play tentatively on the attack early in 
games, because doing so allows the oth-
er team to get as many as three lines of 
defenders behind the ball.  
Conversely, an aggressive attack 
would only have to deal with the back line and defensive midfielders.SOCCER , from page 13
Alligator File Photo
The Student Senate voted to keep Library West open 24 hours 
five days a week in the spring.
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
Uriah LeMay is 17 years old, 
but he was in Gainesville to 
celebrate the Gators winning a BCS title before most students on campus applied to college.
However, none of that 
sports stuff really interested the young LeMay , who grew up in Gainesville while his dad served as a chaplain for the Gators’ football team under for -
mer coach Urban Meyer.
Although football runs in 
both his brothers’ blood, as 
well as that of his dad, Stacy , 
who played football for Florida A&M, LeMay said he was nev-er a sports nut as a kid. While his older brother, Christian, would be soaking in stats from ESPN on television, Uriah said he would be in the backyard playing with the dog or hang-
ing from monkey bars.
When former UF quarter -
back Chris Leak came over to 
the LeMay house to have din-ner, he asked his big brother, “Who’s Chris Leak?” At the time, LeMay only knew Tim Tebow’s name because they had talked about their shared 
Christian beliefs when Tebow 
was a freshman at UF and LeMay thought he was a “cool” mentor.
And after his time playing  flag football in pee-wee leagues was spent, he quit the game be-cause he said he was scared of getting hit. He grew up watch-ing his two brothers from the sidelines, including Christian, who is now a freshman quar -
terback at Georgia.
Finally , cheerleading got old 
for the middle LeMay boy , who dipped his speedy feet back into the game as a linebacker and running back at the beginning of his middle school career. 
By eighth grade, he had 
made the 
transition to wide receiv-
er.
“ T h a t ’ s 
when I start-
ed to become the player I am today ,” he said. 
The player LeMay is today , a 
6-foot-2, 188-pound junior from 
Matthews (N.C.) Butler High, 
holds 18 scholarship offers. He said Alabama, Rutgers, LSU, Tennessee, Florida and FSU are the schools recruiting him most heavily.
LeMay said his ideal school 
will provide “just honesty from the coaches about how ev-
erything is going, how things 
will be going when I get there, as well as just a safe environ-ment.”Receiver prospect 
has local roots
UF Soccer
LeMay
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TAMPA — The Buccaneers are rested 
and eager to begin a critical stretch that will 
be crucial to their chances of winning the 
NFC South.
The team reconvened following its bye 
week Tuesday to begin preparation for a 
key matchup against New Orleans (5-3), 
which leads the division by a half game 
over the Bucs (4-3) and Atlanta Falcons.
It will be Tampa Bay’s second meeting 
in three games against the Saints, who gave the NFL’s youngest club some unexpected 
help in the race by losing to previously 
winless St. Louis last Sunday. A victory not only would lift the Bucs into first place, but it would give them a sweep of the season 
series and a tiebreaker advantage against 
Drew Brees and Co.
“It’s all clumped up in the NFC South,” 
Bucs coach Raheem Morris said. Perfect suiting for us. Perfect suiting for winning 
this division like we talked about at the be-
ginning of the year. Somebody has to do it. Why not us?”
In addition to intercepting Brees three 
times and forcing four turnovers overall to hold off the Saints 26-20 in Tampa on Oct. 16, the Bucs have won each of the past two seasons at New Orleans.
Last week’s bye came at an ideal time 
for the Bucs, who have played their last two games — the victory against New Orleans and a 24-18 loss to Chicago in London — without injured running back LeGarrette Blount and defensive tackle Gerald McCoy. Both players practiced Tuesday and are ex-pected to play Sunday against the Saints.
Morris also spoke favorably about the 
status of several other players who have been nursing injuries, including linebacker Mason Foster, safety Tanard Jackson, center Jeff Faine, fullback Erik Lorig and offensive linemen Jeremy Zuttah.
“We know we have a resilient team, guys 
who fight back. We’re getting healthier. The bye was good for us. We do feel like we’re in a good position,” Morris said, noting that the Bucs are in the thick of the divi-sion chase even though they don’t feel like they’ve played up to their capability.
“We haven’t played our best football 
clearly, and that’s a good thing. We didn’t start playing our best football last year until probably the middle of the year or later,” the coach added. “Last year at this time 
we had two blowout losses under our belt. 
We had to bounce back from those losses. We’ve got one this year, so we’re getting a little bit better.”
The Bucs were one of the NFL’s biggest 
surprises a year ago, rebounding from early lopsided losses to Pittsburgh and New Or -
leans to finish 10-6 and narrowly missing the playoffs. Sunday’s game marks the start 
of a stretch in which Tampa Bay plays three 
straight against first-place teams — New Orleans, Houston and Green Bay.
“This is crunch time football, no matter 
what your team situation is. This week for 
a lot of teams it’s make or break. You’ve got 
to start looking at games like that,” quarter -
back Josh Freeman said.
“It’s no longer the beginning of the sea-
son. You’re starting to get into the home stretch. We’ve just got to find a way to play well,” Freeman added. “We found a way to do it last year. If we can channel that same sort of energy, come out and put together 
complete football games, we’ll be in pretty 
good shape come December.” WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
when they wanted more playing 
time. Some suffered career-ending injuries. Some decided to skip class or play baseball or simply quit.
Each season, teams can give 
out 85 scholarships. Theoretically, these teams that oversign would have to strip players of scholar -
ships to make room for the new recruits. (Scholarships are one-year contracts, though the NCAA has recently proposed expanding them to four years.)
Taking away scholarships is 
rare, however, because so many players leave school when they aren’t getting playing time — “free” education be damned.  
Florida, however, has not over -
signed as part of a policy coming from University President Bernie Machen and Athletic Director Jer -
emy Foley, a team spokesman said Tuesday. In their last four signing classes, the Gators have hauled in 84 recruits — one shy of the limit.
“These schools play roulette 
with the lives of talented young people,” Machen wrote in an op-ed for Sports Illustrated on Feb. 1, not coincidentally the eve of Na-
tional Signing Day. “If (schools) 
run out of scholarships, too bad. … Technically, it’s legal to do this. Morally, it is reprehensible.”
Machen’s policy leaves Mus-
champ handcuffed, especially this year. But at least Florida can hang its hat on something, and the Gators will be better prepared for 
recruiting going forward. 
The Southeastern Confer -
ence will restrict every team to 
25 scholarships next year. Florida has signed one class with a higher number than that; the other four teams have signed nine. Those teams will fall back soon.
Asked Monday how he punish-
es players who commit penalties, Muschamp said, “We’re a little bit thin, quite frankly. We’re doing the best we can do.”
Muschamp has to keep play-
ing them; he doesn’t have a choice. Soon, he won’t be alone. 
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alliga-
tor.org.
TYLER , from page 13WAR OF ATTRITION
Team Players signed (2008-11) Players Lost Players Left
* Source: Rivals.com
**Note: Some players signed with a team twice: once out of high school and once out of junior college because they failed to qualify academically the ﬁ  rst time. Those players were only counted once.
84
108
101112
8923312444236177776866
Maegan Dennis / Alligator StaffAP Photo
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers defeated the New Orleans Saints 26-20 on Oct. 16 in 
Tampa, but now must travel to Louisiana for a rematch this Sunday. 
Weis moving from box back down to field for Vanderbilt game 
they can’t play up to that speed, you’re better off really limiting 
their role.”
Back to the sidelines: After calling plays from the coaches 
booth Saturday against Georgia, Weis said he would likely re-turn to the sideline versus Vanderbilt. 
He said the move upstairs was a result of the pass-heavy at-
tack and that a new gameplan means he will likely coach from the field, where he was stationed for UF’s first seven games.
The Gators drew four false start penalties, three for delay of 
game and had to take three offensive timeouts in the first half Saturday due to an apparent inability to get play calls in. 
“We had some procedural issues, obvi-
ously, as far as communication is concerned,” coach Will Muschamp said Monday when asked about Weis in the booth. 
“That’s something we’re working 
through right now to see if we benefit by still 
doing that.”
Staying the course: Florida’s offensive 
slump is due largely to failed chances, Weis 
said.  
“We probably had about five missed opportunities for touchdowns in the last game,” Weis said. “We had some really big missed opportunities. I think that in a game that’s a four-point game, all you need is one of them to cash in and everyone feels totally different. And it’s really not that much different than the week before.”
Weis added that play calls, routes, protections, fundamen-
tals, techniques and Brantley’s lack of mobility have all played a role in Florida’s struggles.  
The Gators averaged 40.3 points per game over their first 
four, but scored only 11.8 points per game in four October con-tests. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.NoTEbook , from page 13
Weis
NATioNAL Foo TbALL LEA guEComing off the bye, Bucs readying for test against SaintsLANDON WATNICK
Alligator Writer
Florida hoped to build its lead 
Tuesday, but black numbers tar -
nished a golden opportunity . 
In the second round of the Betsy 
Rawls Invitational in Austin, Texas, 
the No. 10 Gators shot 16-over to bring their two-day total to 589 (285-304, +13). 
The team fell to second place, 
and trails host Texas by eight shots heading into today’s final round. Tulsa sits in third 13 strokes back. 
“This wasn’t the round we were 
looking for,” coach Jan Dowling said. “However, we’ve got a very le-gitimate shot at winning a golf tour -
nament, and that’s all you can ask for when you tee it up in a tourna-
ment every time you play. We’re re-
ally excited about [today] and we’re going to react like champions.”
For the day , Florida had nine 
double bogeys, a high number that 
Dowling attributed to her team in-
tensifying its own errors. 
“It’s a difficult course, and we got ourselves in trouble a little bit,” she said. “But I think those double 
bogeys came from compounding 
the mistakes. We’re going to learn from it, and hopefully it’s going to 
be better [today].”
Junior Mia Piccio followed up 
her solid first round with another 
stellar performance Tuesday, shoot-ing a 2-under 70. After double-
bogeying her first hole, Piccio re-
bounded with five birdies and an 
eagle against three bogeys. 
“I’m very proud of her,” Dowl-
ing said. “She started out with a 
double bogey , and she never lost 
confidence in herself that she would 
get it back. That’s shows a lot of ma-
turity and a lot of patience, and she did it.”
Although senior Evan Jensen 
played magnificently in her first round Monday , that wasn’t the case Tuesday . While Jensen tallied 
an eagle on the par-5 fifth, she fin-
ished her final three holes with two 
bogeys and a double bogey for a 7-over 79. 
Piccio (-3) sits atop the leader -
board, while Jensen (+3), the overall 
individual leader after Day 1, slid 
to a seven-way tie for 13th. Piccio leads the field by two strokes.
Junior Isabelle Lendl finished 
her day 5-over. After recording 
three double bogeys, senior Andrea 
Watts shot a 6-over 78.
Florida’s freshmen also had a 
rough time on Tuesday . Camilla Hedberg went 7-over, while Lena Weichselgartner, competing as an individual, carded a 5-over 77 to bring her two-day total to 155 (+11). 
Heading into the final round 
today , Dowling said the team isn’t dwelling on the errors. 
“[Tuesday’s] round is over. 
There’s nothing we can do about it now except react the right way ,” she said. “We can either be annoyed or upset about it or we can turn around and get ready for [today]. That’s the plan.”16, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2011
Alligator File Photo
Florida junior Mia Piccio shot a 2-under 70 on Tuesday and sits atop 
the leaderboard at the Betsy Rawls Invitational after two rounds.
WOMEN’S GOLFPiccio leads; Gators drop to second
ALEX PECKHAM
Alligator Writer
A swim race is relatively 
simple to understand: Whoever 
touches the wall first wins.
But a swim meet is more 
complex. Coaches have to acutely understand their team’s strengths and weaknesses, hop-
ing to exploit matchups that will 
yield them the highest point to-tal at the end of the day.
The delicate game of wits 
that is an NCAA dual swim 
meet was on display Friday at 
the O’Connell Center Natato-rium when the Florida women lost to Georgia 158.5-141.5, 
while the men tied 150-150. 
The final event of the day for 
both the men and the women 
was the 400-meter freestyle re-lay . Going into the event, the 
Florida women trailed Georgia 
147.5-135.5, while the men were behind 144-139. 
The Gators’ coaches had 
some tricky lineup decisions to make to give the teams their best chance to win.
On the women’s side, Flor -
ida had to be greedy with its 
choice in swimmers because 
the only way the Gators would steal the victory was with a first- and second-place finish. 
“We had an opportunity 
to win, so we tried to split our relay teams hoping to get a 1-2 finish,” Florida coach Gregg Troy said Monday . 
If the Gators had gotten their 
dream finish, they would have emerged with a miraculous 150.5-149.5 victory , but Florida 
finished second and third in-stead, falling agonizingly short.
While the women only had 
one option going into that fi-
nal race, the UF men had a more difficult decision on their 
hands. 
To outscore the Bulldogs, 
the Gators needed a first- and 
third-place finish, so the Florida coaches had to decide whether 
to split up their relay teams as 
the women did, or stick with their usual A and B squads. 
“We felt our B relay could 
have beaten their B relay , but we fell a little short,” Troy said. 
The Florida A relay team 
won the race, with Georgia’s A team coming in second. 
The meet would be decided 
by whichever school’s B team 
could touch the wall first. 
The Bull-
dogs secured that third-place result by only  0.16 
seconds, pre-
serving the 
tie for Georgia, and showing once again that after all of the 
preparation and analysis going 
into the race is finished, swim-ming is really about who can touch that wall first. 
This game of wits will take 
place once again today at 5 p.m. as Florida State comes to the O’Connell Center Natatorium hoping to reverse the results 
from the All-Florida Invitation-
al last month, when the Gators dominated the Seminoles en route to a season-opening vic-tory.Florida swimming to 
host Florida State
Troy
