Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  UF senior 
forward Chandler 
Parsons (right) said 
his team learned 
from upset losses 
against UCF and 
Jacksonville, which 
showed in Monday 
night’s victory over 
URI. 
See Story, Page 22.By TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
tjett@alligator.org
 
TAMPA — With Penn State 
threatening to spoil Urban Mey-
er’s going-away party late in the fourth quarter, senior Ahmad Black thought back to the biggest play in his college career.
The Nittany Lions had driven 
more than 50 yards deep into Flor -
ida territory with just over a minute left. But Black reversed the Gators’ fortunes, jumping a pass intended for Penn State tight end Kevin Hap-lea and returning the interception 80 yards for a touchdown, sealing Florida’s 37-24 Outback Bowl vic-tory in front of 60,574 fans at Ray-mond James Stadium on Saturday afternoon.
Black felt the Gators’ defense 
getting pushed around late in the fourth quarter like it had in the national championship against Oklahoma in 2008, when Florida appeared to be an untouchable dy-nasty built for unwavering success as long as Meyer held the reins.
Idaho police say man stole cop car and demanded to be deported
JEROME, Idaho — Jerome police say a 
man who asked authorities to arrest and de-port him to Mexico stole a squad car after his request was denied.
The Idaho Mountain Express reports 
that 38-year-old Guadalupe Cruz-Vasquez went to the Jerome County Sheriff’s office Monday night and demanded that he be deported.
Police Sgt. Duane Rubink says authori-
ties declined to take the Jerome resident into custody.
Then he walked to a nearby police sta-
tion, broke the window of a squad car and drove away with the vehicle.
Rubink says a cell phone inside the ve-
hicle helped police track its location near Carey, but police didn’t need to stop it: The car ran out of gas.
He says after that, Cruz-Vasquez finally 
got his wish.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rain
66/50FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 14
CROSSWORD 18
SPORTS 22n WELCOME BACK  n
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
We Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 VOLUME 105 ISSUE 1
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
 Outgoing Florida football coach Urban Meyer, left, led the Gators to a 37-24 victory in the Outback Bowl 
on Saturday. Muschamp, right, hired Charlie Weis as his offensive coordinator and Dan Quinn as his defensive coordinator while retaining three assistant coaches from Meyer’s staff.OuT WiTh A WiN ...iN WiTh ThE NEW
By ADAM BERRY
Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
 
Two days after officially tak-
ing the reins of the Florida football 
program, Will Muschamp swiftly put together his coaching staff.
The new Gators coach retained 
or hired five coaches Sunday, and he officially added Charlie Weis and Dan Quinn as his offensive and defensive coordinators on Monday.
Weis fulfills Muschamp’s quali-
fications of an experienced coordi-nator at both the college and pro 
level. As the quarterbacks coach, 
a job he will take over from Scot Loeffler, Weis will also face the tall order of solving the lengthy list of problems the Gators encountered at the position last season.
“Charlie was a perfect fit for 
what I was looking for in an offen-sive coordinator,” Muschamp told 
Gatorzone.com, the University 
Athletic Association’s official web-site. “He has both college and pro experience and has been a play-caller in the NFL. He has four Su-per Bowl rings and his accomplish-ments and his ability to develop 
By JOEY FLEChAS
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Board of Trustees approved an 
amended block tuition proposal at a Dec. 
10 meeting, with the measure being de-layed until fall of 2012.
The board voted to approve the pro-
posal 9-1.
 Student Body President Ashton Charles 
cast the sole opposing vote.Charles explained her opposition to 
the implementation of block tuition in fall 2011 to the board.
She cited the policy’s potential impact 
on student finances, out-of-class activities 
and working students.
“We don’t know the number of hours 
that students work off-campus,” Charles 
said.
“We really owe it to the students to take 
more time to look at this.”UF President Bernie Machen empha-
sized that the concept of block tuition is not an original one.
“This is not a new idea 
that hasn’t been tried on other places,” Machen 
said. 
Trustee Carlos Al-
fonso acknowledged the 
students’ concerns but maintained that he didn’t yet see enough evidence to strike 
down the proposal.
“I want to be convinced,” he said, speak-
ing to about 30 students who attended the 
meeting and opposed the proposal.
The proposal needs to clear only one 
more hurdle — the Board of Governors — before the university could institute it.
Under the policy, the university would 
charge tuition for full-time students at a 
flat rate set at the cost of 15 credits. 
Full-time students would pay that flat 
rate regardless of the number of credits 
taken.Block tuition delayed until at least 2012
The Board of Trustees voted on it in December
UF tops PSU in 
Meyer’s finaleMuschamp hires staff
SEE FOOTBALL, p AgE 28 SEE OuTBACK, p AgE 28
Machen
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 1 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.2, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
TODAYFORECASTBRIEFS
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly for -
matted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
STATE
Man says he’ll live in lions’ 
den for 30 days 
SPRING HILL — A Florida 
man says he’s going to spend the next month living in a fenced en-closure with two African lions.
James Jablon of Spring Hill 
hopes the stunt will raise money for his wildlife center, Wildlife Rehabilitation of Hernando.
Jablon entered the lions’ den 
Saturday. He says he’s going to sleep on hay near the lions named Lea and Ed and eat when they eat.
He says he’s also going to 
build a place to sleep and hide in 
the trees in the enclosure, in case 
the lions fight with each other. 
His adventure is being streamed live online through January 31.
About 100 animals live at the 
center about 40 miles north of 
Tampa. It was started for native 
wildlife needing medical treat-ment, but Jablon says he’s now being asked to provide homes for exotic pets.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NATIONAL
La. has mass bird kill just days after Ark. 
NEW ORLEANS — It isn’t 
easy being a blackbird in the 
South.
First, New Year’s Eve fire-
works were blamed in central 
Arkansas for making thousands 
of blackbirds confused, crashing into homes, cars and each other. Then 300 miles to the south in white tutu with her swimsuit. Lipinski wore a T-shirt with a tuxedo design and shorts.
They had considered waiting 
to get married until Nov. 11, so their anniversary would be 11-11-11, but settled for 1-1-11 and jumping into the 37-degree wa-ter.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Mom gives birth to 1 twin 
in 2010, 1 in 2011 
ROCKFORD, Ill. — A north-
ern Illinois couple welcomed 
their new daughter to the world 
in the last minute of 2010 — and a twin son in the first minute of 
2011.
Ashley Fansler gave birth to 
Madisen Carin Lewis at 11:59 
p.m. on New Year’s Eve in Ma-chesney Park, 85 miles north-
west of Chicago. Aiden Everette Lewis was born a minute later, 
at 12 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
The Rockford Register Star 
reports that Fansler wasn’t due 
until the end of January but doctors at Rockford Memorial 
Hospital scheduled a cesarean section for Friday evening to 
avoid complications.
The father, Brandon Lewis, 
says one of the doctors was 
counting the minutes down before the births. Lewis says it 
was “definitely the best” New 
Year’s countdown he’s had.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSLouisiana, power lines likely 
killed about 450 birds, littering a highway near Baton Rouge.
It’s almost certainly a coin-
cidence the events happened 
within days of each other, Loui-
siana’s state wildlife veterinar -
ian Jim LaCour said Tuesday. “I haven’t found anything to link the two at this point.”
In Louisiana, the birds died 
sometime late Sunday or early Monday in the rural Pointe Coupee Parish community of 
Labarre, about 30 miles north-
west of Baton Rouge. The birds — a mixed flock of red-winged blackbirds, brown-headed cowbirds, grackles and star -
lings — may have hit a power line or vehicles in the dark, La-Cour said. Two dozen of them had head, neck, beak or back 
injuries.
About 50 dead birds were 
near a power line 30 or 40 feet 
from Louisiana Highway 1. About a quarter-mile away, a second group of 400 or more stretched from the power line and across the highway, he said.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Couple wed on boat, take 
chilly river plunge 
PITTSBURGH — A Penn-
sylvania couple took a frigid 
plunge to symbolize taking an-other plunge — their marriage.
Judy Herilla and Adam Lip-
inski were among hundreds of members of the Pittsburgh Polar Bear Club who jumped into the Monongahela River on New Year’s Day.
Unlike the others, they had 
just gotten married aboard a water taxi.
Herilla, of Springdale, wore 
a veil and a long purple-and-NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Josh Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Josh Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors John Boothe, Nicole Deck, 
  Safid Deen, Desiree Farnum, 
  Olivia Feldman, Greg Fink, 
  Josh Isom, Caitlin O’Conner, 
  Briana Seymour, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen
 Display Advertising Clerk Jesse Morgan, Stephanie Parker,
 Sales Representatives Joshua Andersen, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras SATURDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SUNDAY
SUNNY
71/45SUNNY
60/36SUNNY
62/34RAIN
65/37RAIN
66/50
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
CENSUS
By MIGUEL CHATELOIN
Alligator Writer
Florida will gain two more 
congressional seats after the latest 
census data showed an increase in population, giving it even more influence as a swing state in presi-
dential elections.
Set to jump up to 27 electoral 
votes, the Sunshine State will be tied with New York, which will 
lose two seats. California will stay the biggest with 53 seats, and Tex-
as will increase to 36.
“Florida’s clout among our 
country’s 49 other states con-
tinues to rise,” said State Senate 
President Mike Haridopolos in 
a statement on the census. “Our state will be tied for the third larg-est congressional delegation in the country with 27 members of 
Congress.”
H o w e v e r , 
these changes in the legisla-
ture will most 
likely have little effect on North Central Florida. Experts say new 
congressional districts will most likely be drawn in Central and 
South Florida, which had faster 
population growth rates over the last decade.
The House Office of Reappor -
tionment has created MyFlori-daCensus at www.myfloridacen-sus.gov to allow the public to propose district changes.
UF political science professor 
Leslie Thiele believes the website is good for public input but hopes that information collected will be handled responsibly.
“Any system for getting that 
input can be manipulated,” said Thiele.
Districts are estimated to be 
drawn in about a year and a half, but Florida will gain two congres-sional seats for the 2012 general election.
Florida nets two more congressional seats from census
n PRESIDENT OBAMA SIGNED THE 
PACKAGE INTO LAW IN DECEMBER.
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
2011 might be Steve Raye’s best year.
It might be the year he gets to give his 
employees more hours. 
It may also be the year he breaks even.
Raye, or “Satchel” as customers have 
come to know him at Satchel’s Pizza, is one of millions of workers affected by the $858 billion tax break package that  signed into law by President Barack Obama on Dec. 17.
The bill carries over Bush-era tax cuts, 
which were scheduled to sunset on Dec. 31, preventing an increase in taxes for an-other two years.Raye said he started in 2009 at 20 per -
cent below the amount of money he was used to making. Since then, he has seen a slow uptick in the number of weekly cus-tomers. By the end of 2010, he had almost 
50 workers on an average Friday night and 
customers streaming out the door waiting for pizza.
And with the tax-cut extension, he be-
lieves business may continue to pick up.
Among other measures aimed at stimu-
lating economic growth, the package will reduce the Social Security tax by two per -
centage points, extend 99-week unemploy-
ment benefits until the end of the year and 
continue a cut in payroll tax.
Had the bill not passed, workers would 
have seen an average of 4 percentage 
points tacked on to their taxes this year, 
said David Denslow, professor and direc-tor of policy studies in the Warrington Col-lege of Business Administration at UF. 
President Obama said at the signing 
ceremony that the bill would ultimately create more jobs for Americans.
That’s what Linda Tanner, owner of 
Alachua Farm and Lumber on the corner 
of Main Street  Northwest 145th Avenue, 
is hoping for. 
She said Alachua Farm and Lum-
ber hasn’t been hit hard enough by the 
economy since it last laid 
off employees in 1984. 
But, because the company won’t be paying the taxes it 
would have, she said she could be looking 
for new hires in 2011.
She said she’s optimistic that families 
with the extra $3,000 in would-be tax dol-
lars will spend their money at the store.
“Perhaps people will feel better about 
spending and going on business as usual,” Tanner said.
That consumer optimism was the goal 
of the bill, Denslow said. If the bill works as expected and workers use the tax break, he said, the bill would reduce the chance of the economy falling into a double-dip 
recession. 
Instead, it would take a slow and steady 
nose up.
“It’s not that we’re expecting great 
times again,” Denslow said. “We’re just re-ducing the chance of it getting worse.”
Over at Satchel’s, Raye said the tax cuts 
may help steer around a recession, but 
he’s not sure he can attribute his line of 
customers to decisions made in Washing-
ton, D.C.
“Is that going to happen just because of 
tax cuts? Who knows?” He asked. “That extra 20 bucks might be the 20 bucks they 
get a pizza with.”Local business owners appreciate tax break package
NewsNationalHaridopolos
By ALEX ORLANDO
Alligator Writer
There is magic in crossroads. In folklore, 
places where paths meet have been the site of 
spells, life-and-death decisions and deals with the devil. Historically , they have been places to meet for public debates, announcements, 
hangings, weddings, wakes and dances.
Centered at the intersection of two state 
roads and four counties, sits Chiappini’s — 
Melrose, Fla.’s stage for such happenings.
There, where state Roads 26 and 21 and 
Alachua, Bradford, Clay and Putnam counties meet, a white concrete block building with the family name hand-scrolled on the side resem-bles an old-style gas station. 
Out front, bait coolers and newspaper 
racks squat behind gas pumps, framing the doorway like guards.
But crack the front door open, and you’ll 
see the difference.
The smell of cigarette smoke and the mur -
mur of heavy conversation lingers over the 200 to 300 people who walk in Chiappini’s door every day.
A handbill for the store reads, “Chiappini’s. 
Where good friends and cold beer go hand in hand!”
From the tops of drink coolers, a taxider -
mic display of Florida wildlife — bobcats, fox-es, possums — sneers down at patrons. Deer heads, boar heads, alligator heads and even a jackalope head peer from the walls.
By 5 p.m., the usual crowd 
rolls in from work. The conver -
sation, glued together by nico-tine-drenched air, could hold up 
the baked beans, bleach, fishing hooks, lures and worms that line the shelves.
This is where commissioners, senators and 
other lawmakers come to take the pulse of the community. Melrose’s politics, concerns and troubles constantly bounce around in conver -
sation.
Behind the bar, Mark and Rob Chiappini, 
grandsons of the original owner, manage the extravaganza.
Mark is the only one there today. He is 
about 5 feet 6 inches tall with a wiry build and usually wears glasses, a bright-colored fishing shirt and khaki shorts. His dusty tennis shoes match the color of his hair and broad mus-
tache.
He greets almost everyone who opens the 
door by name. He knows everyone’s story 
and what that person usually buys on his or her way home — sometimes before they know what they want.One man walks in and Chiappini has a box 
of American Spirit cigarettes, the man’s usual choice, waiting on the counter before the door shuts behind him.
Set a drink at the register that’s warm 
enough to sweat, and Chiappini will fish a replacement out of the fridge cold enough to sting your fingertips while you sip it.
While chiming in on the latest conversa-
tion, which has just switched to one woman’s trouble with her Chevy Suburban, Chiappini is jolted by the sight of a car pulling up to one of the gas pumps.
He scurries dutifully out the door to a wait-
ing BMW. The store is also a full-service gas station.
He grabs a squeegee and starts cleaning the 
woman’s windshield, greeting her.
“Y’all enjoying this beautiful day?”When passersby come inside, as they fre-
quently do, to buy beer or any of the other merchandise in the store, Chiappini is quick to show them around. And if they are looking for 
something that can’t be found in the store, the 
regulars are there to point them toward any of Melrose’s local businesses.
Sometimes, newcomers are directed to a 
bulletin board that hangs near the door where more than 100 business cards are tacked up, 
advertising everything from drywall service to 
tattoo parlors to tree-felling businesses. These are usually put up by the regulars in the bar to attract customers.
Also drawn inside is a man who has just 
walked in the door without shoes, only socks, having abandoned his waders in his truck.
He wants to know what worms, hooks and 
lures Chiappini prefers to use in nearby Lake 
Santa Fe.
“You out there in the weeds?” Chiappini 
asks.
“Yup.”
“Let me show ya,” Chiappini says as he 
leads the man to a wall lined with fishing gear.
He breezes through a group of about a 
dozen patrons who are drinking beers — the 
most notable difference between Chiappini’s 
and any other convenience store.
Because it was built in the 1930s and has 
been family owned since, Chiappini’s was grandfathered in under an old law that per -
mits patrons to purchase an alcoholic bever -
age, open it and drink it anywhere on the premises, indoors or outdoors.
One of the women sitting on one of the four steel bar stools says Chiappini looks stressed. 
She is trained as a massage therapist and 
offers Chiappini a back rub, which he accepts graciously.
She is one of the dozen or so people with 
whom he exchanges back pats and cheek kiss-es. These are also the only people allowed to run a bar tab.
“That’s the only reason they let me charge 
stuff up here is because I rub on their shoul-ders,” she says.
Chiappini is quickly jerked from his mas-
sage and back to work by one of the regulars.
“Hey , get a room, you two! There’s another 
car here.”
While some of the regulars work blue-col-
lar jobs during the day , usually coming in the store still wearing oil- or paint-smeared work shirts, Chiappini said he gets a blend of peo-ple. “Doctors, lawyers and ditch diggers.”
A group of men sits in the back of the store, 
huddled around an arcade bowling machine, placing bets and cutting up, ignoring the “No 
Profanity” sign on the wall behind the coun-
ter.
In another corner of the store is a pay phone 
bolted to a support column. 
Brian MacDonald, a 70-year-old man who 
some call the mayor because of his normally serious and reserved disposition, remembers the last time he got a call on that phone.
It was a Saturday morning and his wife had 
asked him to mow the lawn while she slept in. But MacDonald knew his buddies would be at Chiappini’s sipping beers while he worked. 
So, he parked the mower under his wife’s 
bedroom window — still running with a con-vincing loud hum that said he was still work-ing — and popped over to the store for a cold one.
A cold one turned into a cold few, and later 
the phone rang.
“It’s for you,” someone said.MacDonald took the phone.“Hello?”“Your mower’s out of gas. ”He hung his head and left. When he came 
back, “the boys,” as he calls the regulars still situated around the bowling machine, ribbed him about it.
By now, it’s almost 7 p.m., closing time for 
Chiappini’s.
Mark Chiappini announces last call from 
behind the counter as patrons bring their un-finished beers and conversations outside to sit and talk by the bait coolers in the blue glow of a neon Bud Light sign in the window.
For an extended version of this story, visit 
alligator.org.4, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
Alex Orlando / Alligator
The concrete brick building at the crossroad of two highways and four counties serves 
as a community gathering spot and watering hole for Melrose, Fla.
Watering hole serves as small-town gathering place
NewsLocalWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
279 TOTAL VOTES78% YES
22% NODec. 8 question: Are you excited for winter break?Today’s question: Have you already broken your New Year’s resolution?Paul Runnestrand EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Party time
Scott’s $3 million 
inauguration is excessive
Welcome back, Gators. 
It’s that time of year again. 
You know what we mean. For the better part 
of a month, most of us have been lost in a retail fog, bump-ing into relatives we forgot we had — some we tried to forget by drinking them out of memory. 
We’ve glutted ourselves on so many cookies that we 
can discern red sprinkles from green on taste alone.
But everyone has to wake up from those visions of sug-
arplums sometime.
Our reality check came yesterday. Just as we were getting used to writing “2011” on our 
papers and in our checkbooks, the local news stations re-minded us to stop saying “Gov. Charlie Crist.” 
Oh, yeah. We tried to forget, but apparently it was time 
to grow up and “get to work.”
At his inauguration yesterday, Gov. Rick Scott laid out 
his plans for the next four years, focusing his speech on Florida’s ailing economy.  
He rehashed his campaign talking points, emphasizing 
the importance of businesses.
 He even signed an executive order creating a new Of-
fice of Fiscal Accountability.
But something didn’t sit right with us, and it wasn’t 
Scott’s awkward jokes about the Florida weather or the 
forced laughs meeting them.
Instead of electing for a subdued inaugural ceremony — 
and learning from the heat Floridians unleashed on Char -
lie Crist in 2007 about his inaugural ball — Mr. Clean’s 
morally flexible twin went all out. 
Granted, nearly all the funding for the event came from 
donations, but the $3 million price tag still seems exces-sive.
We’re all for the new governor having a little fun. After 
all, an inauguration is basically the political version of a touchdown dance. But $3 million worth of fun in a few days? 
Now that takes some spending skills, especially from a 
man who preaching the gospel of fiscal responsibility. 
However, this figure is dwarfed by another — the $1.7 
billion penalty his company paid for Medicare fraud. Luckily for Scott, that huge number didn’t seem to keep voters away. 
Maybe the amount seemed too intangible. He took it upon himself to clear things up during his 
first day on the job.
The celebration included a prayer breakfast, a lun-
cheon, a country music concert, a parade and an inaugural 
ball.  Maybe Scott didn’t think his party wouldn’t look ex-
travagant to Floridians struggling to pay their mortgages or find jobs. 
After all, they elected him with his track record. 
For a businessman, it certainly looks like a smart move.  
After all, if you flaunt your wealth to your “employees,” 
they’ll obviously respect what you have to say about sav-ing money. 
Good job, slick Rick.
While he’s free to use his donations to fund his shindig, 
it leaves us with a bad taste in our mouths. 
Or maybe that’s the expired eggnog. Who knows?I have been given the opportunity to address the big-
gest news story of the year for anyone within a 15-mile radius of The Swamp. 
Far beyond the importance of the extension of tax 
cuts or President Obama bowing to Republican cut-throats, the resignation of head coach Urban Meyer from the UF football program is far more urgent in the 
hearts and minds of The Gator Nation.
I’m confused about how to feel about this develop-
ment, as I’m sure many Gators fans are. 
What I can identify is a great feeling of sadness. 
Meyer’s tenure with the Gators was undeniably suc-
cessful. 
He gave us two national championships, the Tebow 
era and a reason to go to Gators games after the embar -
rassment of Ron Zook. 
On top of being a winning football coach, Meyer was 
a professional.
 He is a man with a true respect for his players, his 
program and his game. 
Rather than having the embarrassing sideline antics 
of a man not in control of his emotions (ahem, 1990s Steve Spurrier), Meyer inspired true confidence by keeping a cool head and remembering the power of ex-ample he had over the players, fans and other coaches. 
Off the field, Meyer was an exemplary member of the 
community. 
He was involved in his local church, his children’s 
schools and representing a handful of charities on the side.
One such charity is the Rodeheaver Boys Ranch, a 
program that helps educate and train at-risk youth. 
On top of this, Meyer also co-chaired an effort with Billy Donovan to raise money for the Florida Opportunity Scholars Program.
Not in this long list of achieve-
ments (including picking a fine name for his son), how-ever, is the true nature of what we’ve lost in the resigna-tion of Urban Meyer. 
What can’t be put in a Wikipedia article or a sports 
almanac is what Meyer truly was: a servant leader.
Growing up in Gainesville probably affects my view 
of this situation. 
The head coach of the Gators is the closest thing our 
modern Gainesvillian society has to a tribal leader. 
I can clearly remember the day Spurrier stepped 
down as head coach. 
My friend’s father expressed his utter desolation to 
my parents as he came to pick up his son. 
It was then that I realized, however strange or silly it 
may be, the head coach of the Gators is just as much the community leader of Gainesville as the mayor, perhaps more so.
That’s what made Meyer a great coach and a sorely 
missed pillar of society. 
Under extreme scrutiny, pressure, and, at times, def-
amation, Meyer exemplified leadership that put others 
above himself in his coaching style, his deeply personal 
relationships with his players and staff and his poised and professional connection with the public.
So, Urban, I think I speak for many when I say we 
can’t thank you enough for the years you gave us, and 
we wish you much success in the future. 
God bless, and go Gators.
Nate Rushing is second-year political science student.Urban Meyer respected as local leader
Nate Rushing
letters@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
I was alone on a Friday night and in no mood to join the 
drunk and hollering crowd parading past my house. My two choices were: read a magazine or study organic chem-
istry . Tossing my chem book aside, I was faced with a new decision to make — should I read my Cosmopolitan or my 
National Geographic? I landed on National Geographic, and 
I had one of those angels-singing, beam-of-light-shining, harp-
playing Hallelujah moments … or what most people know as 
an “epiphany.”
I used to idolize Cosmo. I used to want to work for them, 
and I used to obsess and giggle and squeal with unadulterated 
ecstasy every time my new issue arrived. Cosmo was my es-
cape from real life. In Cosmo, the only stresses that exist are 
“that slut at work,” or “that slut lookin’ at my boyfriend,” or 
“that slut who’s being a skank.” Of course, there’s also “I have 
to be married before I’m 35,” “How do I get a man?” and “Now 
that I have him, how do I keep him?” That basically covers everything negative about a Cosmo girl’s life. I wanted to be 
that girl. I wanted to only care about my hair, my clothes, my 
makeup, and how to catch that man. I wanted to be the uber-
confident girl who could walk through a room and turn eyes 
because her butt looks so great in those jeans. 
Then college started. I realized that there were more than 22,000 people at this school, and the style of my hair, the brand of my jeans or the color of my nails were not in fact 
the center of anyone’s universe. And 
while some of my friends were still obsessing over their shoes and their clothes and whether someone would think they were 
weird for doing, or saying, or wearing something not straight 
off the conveyor belt, I was learning not to care what people 
thought about me.
But I digress. Bottom line, I matured a little bit and Cosmo 
started to get a little boring. Don’t get me wrong, it was still 
oodles of fun to snuggle on my couch with some girlfriends 
and giggle over the delicious abs and the cliche tips on how to 
impress the boss, the mother-in-law and the opposite sex, but 
then I started to realize that all the magazine was telling me 
was how to change to make someone else (specifically , a man) 
happy . At first I was able to ignore it, because I was aware of it and didn’t let it affect me. But then it just got annoying.
No, Cosmo, I’m not going to wear high heels because men 
love them. No, Cosmo, I’m not going to spend all my money 
on expensive hair products because men love the “bad girl 
bump.” And NO, Cosmo, I’m not going to belittle myself by 
changing to please someone else.Around this time I started to write my weekly blog and 
column, all dedicated to science. This of course required me 
to troll science news sites, science magazine sites and science 
departments on campus for interesting things to write about. 
And though my passion for science was never dampened by 
Cosmo, it was like Cosmo had put a low-level perception filter 
over science and only when I was looking for science did I re-
member it existed.
So I re-subscribed to National Geographic, and I cancelled 
my subscription to Cosmo.
And I realized just now, reading my National Geographic, 
that I am no longer reading something that wants me to change 
who I am. I’m reading something that defines who I am. I’m 
gaining knowledge, I’m learning, I’m immersing myself in ev-
erything that interests me. Cosmo was always so easy to read 
because it requires no thought. It’s an escape. National Geo-
graphic requires the mind to make connections and revel in the beauty and miracle of life, to change perspectives and walk a 
mile in someone else’s shoes, to admit that human beings aren’t 
the only important life forms on the planet, and to realize the 
Earth isn’t the only planet in the universe.
Thanks, National Geographic, for making this Friday night.JoAnna Wendel is a student at the University of Oregon.Ditching Cosmo for National Geographic a smart change UWire
JoAnna Wendel
UWireWelcome back, everyone. I hope that 
your winter break was relaxing and you got to spend time with family , 
friends and loved ones. Mine sure was, but it wasn’t the only thing I got to accomplish dur -
ing my quick respite back home.
Since starting college this fall, one of my fa-
vorite pastimes has taken a back seat and that would be my near-compulsive consumption of television. I know, it’s going to rot my brain out – thanks, Mom. My favorite thing about television is that I believe it can capture the zeitgeist of the American culture — be it with a popular cartoon enrapturing the young minds 
of children, or a psychological drama keeping 
older folks glued to the screen every week. 
I watch a wide range of television, from 
the hyper-intellectual (yes, I’m looking at you, “Mad Men”) to what most people consider ab-solute garbage. This break, I decided to take my television-watching talents to South Beach and catch up with the second season of the oft-maligned yet oft-quoted “Jersey Shore.” Sea-son 3 begins Thursday.
One of the most striking memories of my 
first few weeks of college was how into “Jersey Shore” my fellow students are — there were 
notes on the elevator about “Jersey Shore” par -
ties and certain residence halls were hosting 
hordes of students in their commons who’d all been enraptured by the spell of gymming, tanning, and laundering. I watched along from home for the first week or two but then became too busy with real life to keep up.
So when I came back to the show a few 
weeks ago, I immediately remembered ex-
actly what I’d been missing — in the words of 
future poet laureate Nicole “Snooki” Polizzi, “gorilla juiceheads” and a whole lot of fights about nothing. 
“Seinfeld” used to describe itself as “a show 
about nothing.” “Jersey Shore” has certainly one-upped it.
However, as awful as the show got, and as much as I felt like I was watching re-runs of “Maury” or “Jerry Springer,” af-ter a while, it was in-
credibly endearing. 
To my amazement, I had found something in common between “Mad Men” and “Jer -
sey Shore” —  the two programs I find most intellectually perpendicular on cable. In both shows, it was very hard to find someone to root for! Everyone had an inherent flaw that 
was evident to viewers like us, and we come 
back each week with our deepest hopes that someone will straighten up and fly right.
In the interest of my readers, I’ll keep this 
as spoiler-free as possible, for those who wish to go back and watch season two, but charac-ters who seemed squeaky clean (and by defi-nition, out of place) at the Jersey Shore house were found to have a flaw or make themselves unlikeable. It wouldn’t be surprising if, like MTV’s previous reality show “The Hills,” the series finale outs the entire shindig as a script-ed series. The development of the characters 
and certain themes would fit that mold.
My only worry is that people take “Jersey 
Shore” too seriously . There are certain values 
to be celebrated in “Jersey Shore” — the house guests work for their rent, and when families come to visit, they are celebrated. A lifestyle espoused by the house guests isn’t foreign in college — going out regularly, heavy drinking and promiscuity. But in high school or middle 
school? If a 13-year-old girl’s dream is to be 
like Snooki, we’ve got a problem. 
Jersey Shore’s often maligned, but it’s be-
ing viewed through the wrong lens. It’s not reality — it’s satire at its finest.
Sean Quinn is a first-year political science 
student.
Jersey Shore is addicting, but not to be taken too seriouslyColumn
Sean Quinn
letters@alligator.orgn MEN AND WOMEN USUALLY GET MARRIED IN 
THEIR LATE TWENTIES. 
By ANDREW PANTAZI
Alligator Contributing Writer
When one of his high school classmates died in a motor -
cycle accident, students wore black to remember him. Brett Stelmaszek wore the brightest colors he owned.
He was the class clown. He found ways to turn others’ 
miserable lives into something funny. He reasoned that if someone was dumb enough to crash his motorcycle, then Brett should be able to laugh at him.
Then Brett came to UF. Technically, he lived 
on campus, but he spent all of his time with his best friend from back home, Vishan Persaud. Persaud lived in a condo complex near the Oaks Mall.
The two hosted parties all the time, and they had weekly 
movie nights.
That’s where Brett met Sydney. She lived in the condo 
beneath Persaud’s.
She couldn’t stand Brett. She didn’t like his insults. He 
was too much of an abrasive comedian. Then she got used to 
it, and then he liked her.
It took her a little longer to start liking him.
But before then, they became friends. They trained for a 
triathlon together. They discussed religion and philosophy. And then she left for the summer.
Sydney went to Papua New Guinea for a mission trip. 
Brett stayed in Gainesville.
While she was gone, Brett changed. Even though he’d 
never been religious, he became a Christian.
Sydney noticed a change when she got back, and they 
dated for two months.
Then he popped the question. She said yes.They planned on waiting seven months, but after real-
izing they were planning their future together, they went to 
a courthouse in January a day before school started. Appar -
ently if you get married, you can get out of your dorm con-
tract. It worked for him.
They moved in together. He was 19. Five months later, in May, they had an official wedding. 
Complete with a white dress, black tuxedo and wedding cake.
Tuesday marked their one-year anniversary.
n n n
In 1971, an Independent Florida Alligator story reported 
that 25 percent of students were married. The average age of a man getting married, according to the According to 2010 U.S. Census Data, the average age of marriage is 28 for men  and 26 for women.
No statistics are kept that tell how many current under -
graduate students are married at UF, but it doesn’t take a spreadsheet to realize that marriage isn’t the most common route for college students.
People who are better educated, according to UF sociol -
ogy professor John Scanzoni, get married later. Scanzoni will 
tell you that the reason for the later marriage, which can be 
seen in the U.S. Census data, is that most people used to get married because they thought marriage was required for sex. Now, people have sex and don’t think of marriage as a 
prerequisite.
Marriage, Brett says, is a prerequisite for sex.
n n n
Waiting for class to begin, Brett started playing an air traf-
fic control game on his iPod.
He had just finished the first of his four Friday classes 
and was waiting for the next class to begin.
Last year, he missed each of his classes multiple times.
Since January, since declaring a major in religion, and 
since marrying Sydney, he hasn’t missed or been late to any classes.
Ten minutes before 10:40 a.m., when class is supposed to 
start, the professor walks in. Brett follows behind him and takes a seat to the far right.
Two girls walk in talking about some party the night be-
fore.Three other students talk about the Bob Dylan concert 
that’s coming to the O’Connell Center that night.
“I mean, $20 to see a legend,” one student says. “Totally 
worth it.”
Once the students settle in, Brett keeps to himself, and 
the professor talks about the Code of Hammurabi and the Hebrew Bible.
Brett answers some questions. Compared to everyone 
else, he doesn’t look that different. 
Part of growing up, he believes, is focusing on each task, 
one at a time.
Brett likes video games, movies and motorcycles. He likes to run. He likes to read.So much has changed, and so much has stayed the same.Entering his third year of college, Brett’s grown up.He now knows what he wants to do.He no longer spends time with friends. His first priority 
is his wife.
He no longer stays up late at night. He goes to bed at 11 
p.m.
His friends aren’t college students. His friends are older 
married couples Brett and Sydney meet at First Assembly of God. The two of them don’t even go to college minis-tries anymore because, as Brett says, “learning to love your spouse is more urgent.”
Near the end of the semester, they went to a party for the 
adults who work in the nursery at their church. It’s easier to spend time with older people when you’re married.
But still, it’s hard finding time between school and work.
n n n
In front of the Marlboros, behind the Jujyfruits, Brett 
works.
“Would you like a bag with that?” No.“$2.18’s your total.”The lady walks out of the store.During his dinner break with Sydney, he only had time for 
small talk, but now he’s back at Walgreens. He’s not late.
“Code 50 to the front,” Brett calls into a phone. “Code 50 
to the front.”
The lady with the bottle of Barefoot Moscato wine asks 
what’s going on.
“My manager has to clear it.” “Why?”“I’m too young.”When the crowds go and the store’s empty, he plays with 
the coupon catalog; there’s nothing else to do.
Most of his 39 hours of work at Walgreens involves him 
standing behind the cash register waiting for something to do.
Still, despite his fiddling hands, he’s focused on work. If 
he focused on what’s at home, work would never get done.
n n n
Before heading to work, Brett has an hour to spend with 
Sydney after his last class ends Friday.
Brett walks to the living room and pieces together the chang-
ing table.
Flip. Rotate.Try the screw, nope. Try a different type of screw. It works.When you buy furniture on Craigslist, it doesn’t come with 
instruction manuals.
“Do you need help?” his wife asks.He says no. Soon the changing table starts to look like a 
changing table.
“Should I register for the classes I like,” she asks him, re-
garding the spring semester, “and hope?”
Brett doesn’t know what to tell his wife. Do you just hope that professors will let you schedule your 
finals around your due date? Or do you contact the professors before registering? If you contact them first, what if you don’t even get in that class? 
And some professors don’t tell you how to contact them un-
til the first class.
They pay for everything through scholarships and grants. 
Sydney put her down payment on the condo through the mon-ey she got from selling a 2009 Ford Focus, which she won at a high school raffle.  
There’s also the generosity of friends, like their Bible study 
leaders at church who gave them a 1999 Nissan Infiniti with 125,000 miles and an oil leak.
Brett finishes the changing table, screwing in the last of the 
screws. He packs up the pink screwdrivers that were wedding gifts.
It’s time to go now. It’s an eight-hour shift, but he takes a 
30-minute dinner break after four hours. He grabs his wife’s hand, and the two 20-year-olds walk out the door together. Brett leans in to kiss his wife, rubs her belly and talks to the unseen baby.8, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
Andrew Pantazi / Alligator
Brett and Sydney Stelmaszek study together inside their apartment at the end of the fall semester. The couple cel-ebrated their one-year wedding anniversary Tuesday.
Married students balance college, relationshipsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
It’s a new year and UF Webmail 
has a new look to go with it. 
On Dec. 19, the web-based e-mail 
client used by  students and faculty 
switched over to the newer WebMail 
2.0. 
Aside from the new visual de-
sign, the biggest change users will 
notice is an increase in storage space. Mailboxes can now store 1 GB of in-formation instead of the 250 MB the old mailbox allowed its users.
The old webmail system was 
built in 2002, two years before Gmail 
was even introduced into the e-mail-
er’s vocabulary.
After receiving requests from 
new students over the years for new features, Computer Networking Services decided to move forward with an upgrade based off the open-source project Roundcube. It was se-lected because of its ability to handle 
a large-scale e-mail project like UF 
Webmail. 
Multiple-language support has 
also been added, along with a pre-view pane, group support in the address book, more composition op-tions, additional mailbox views and new sorting options.So far, according to Iain Moffat, 
manager of the Computer and Net-working Services’s Open Systems Group, there have been few problems.  Students have mixed opinions about 
the new look. Some, like UF linguis-
tics major Mary Walker, welcomed the change.“It’s just modern and nice to see 
something new,” she said.  
Others, like UF English major 
Christopher Nelson, were not as comfortable switching over. 
“I’m so used to the other system 
that when it changed over, I was con-cerned,” he said. “I thought that the system had been compromised.”
Nelson preferred the old Webmail 
client’s lack of bells and whistles.
“It was really simple,” he said. 
“That was its appeal.”
After UF  information systems 
graduate student Michael Pucci first saw the new layout, he took a posi-tion similar to Nelson’s, favoring the older layout. However, he said he 
could get used to the new one over 
time.
“I thought the other one was 
easier to look at,” he said. “But that’s because we were all looking at it for many years.” 
For those having trouble getting 
used to the changes, the old layout can still be found at legacy .ufl.edu, 
and users will still be treated to the 
new 1 GB storage quota. 
However, its stay will only be 
temporary as the old Webmail will be gone for good on Jan. 30. 
“We don’t want people to have 
to get used to something new the first week of classes,” he said. “We just wanted to make sure that stu-
dents and staff had the option to use 
the old one.”10, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
webmail.ufl.edu
A screenshot of the University of Florida’s WebMail 2.0.
ON CAMPUSUF updates Webmail layout, adds more storage
n THE CREEKS’ PINE TAR PROBLEM 
BEGAN IN 1945. 
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
Having lived along Hogtown Creek since 
1989, 61-year-old Ewen Thomson has long 
appreciated its beauty . But within its waters, there also lie deposits of pine tar, a sticky resi-due that has flowed through both Hogtown 
and Springstead creeks for decades.
This month, Cabot Corp. plans to begin 
its pine tar removal project, which aims to re-
move deposits from 17 areas identified during a 2009 survey by the Alachua County Environ-mental Protection Department. The tar is gen-erally buried between 18 inches and 24 inches underground. 
Officials from Alachua County and the 
City of Gainesville approved the plan in De-cember.“It’s long overdue,” Thomson said. “It im-
pacts us because we have this beautiful creek which looks nice, but on the other hand it’s 
just — how do you describe it — it’s full of 
pollutants and not healthy.”
The creeks’ pine tar problem dates back to 
1945, when Cabot established a pine tar plant in Gainesville. The operation ran until 1966, when the company closed the operation. Pine tar leaked into Hogtown and Springstead creeks over time, filling the water with gooey clots that John Mousa, pollution prevention 
manager for ACEPD, describes as a “nui-
sance.” While pine tar doesn’t pose serious health risks, it has been the source of various complaints from the public, he said.
Cabot will work with prime contractor 
Weston Solutions to complete its plan.  The company is currently talking to several prop-erty owners along the creeks to get their per -
mission to remove deposits on their property. 
The company plans to finish getting prop-
erty owner permission during the next week. If it gets enough approvals, it should be able to begin work later this month. Cabot plans to complete its work in February , which will 
allow it to finish removing pine tar before sea-
sonal Florida rainstorms make working on the creek difficult.
The cleanup effort will focus on up to 
about 17 areas identified as containing pine 
tar deposits by the ACEPD survey , depending on how many property owners con-sent to the work plan.
While the efforts will 
not eradicate all tar depos-its from the creeks, Mousa 
hopes that it will help solve much of the problem. 
“We’re hoping that if we 
can get a lot of it removed, the complaints will be less and it will be better for the aquatic sys-tem, for the ecology and for the people in the 
creek,” he said. 
While Cabot is implementing the ac-tual program, it will be overseen by both the 
ACEPD and the U.S. Environmental Protec-tion Agency . The EPA will ensure the program 
runs smoothly and that the pine tar is properly 
removed, said Scott Miller, the EPA remedial project manager for the Cabot-Koppers Super -
fund site. 
The Superfund site, according to Gainesville 
Mayor Craig Lowe, has long been a problem for Gainesville and Alachua County with the pine tar cleanup being the result of the work of several city commissions and mayors. They 
have worked like a tag team on the problem, 
taking steps toward new solutions with each administration, Lowe said. 
While the pine tar cleanup may help re-
move a major nuisance from Hogtown and Springstead creeks, it is far from a final rem-edy , Mousa said. The waters are plagued by other chemicals, which may have come from either the Cabot or Koppers sites that are the 
subject of Superfund cleanup efforts by the 
EPA and other groups. 
Corporation to remove pine tar from two local creeks
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
UF doctors are searching for a better way to slow can-
cer.
Throughout the next year, doctors at Shands at UF will 
work with 120 patients with advanced, inoperable liver 
cancer. They will search for a way to give longer, happier lives to patients whose time is precious.
“Quality is just as important, if not more important, 
than quantity of life,” said Dr. Roniel Cabrera, the study leader and a UF assistant professor of medicine.
Only one medication is available to treat advanced 
liver cancer, a chemotherapy pill called Sorafenib. The 
makers of Sorafenib are funding the research through a 
$650,000 grant. The doctors will essentially test how effective the pill 
is in lower doses.
The problem with the pill, Cabrera said, is that it has 
side effects, including diarrhea, nausea and fatigue. Some people don’t want to take the pill because the side effects are too bothersome, but the pill has been proven to help 
patients live about two months longer.
Dr. David Nelson, director of UF’s Clinical and Trans-lational Science Institute, said some patients can’t tolerate 
the pill for long periods of time because of the side effects. He hopes this research will change that.
“In this devastating disease, this approach is essential 
to yield the best treatment opportunities for patients with advanced disease,” Nelson wrote in an e-mail.
Usually, patients are given two pills twice a day. The 
trial will determine if a patient will have less harsh side effects if he or she takes one pill a day, then two pills a day and so on until they are up to the regular dose. 
The clinical trial started in November, and currently 
Shands at UF is the only hospital participating. 
Cabrera said that he wants to spread this research 
throughout Florida and hopes to have the Mayo Clinic Hospital in Jacksonville, Florida Hospital in Orlando and about eight other Florida hospitals involved, as well as a 
few out-of-state facilities.
“The trial has the potential to break new ground in the 
treatment of primary liver cancer,” Cabrera said.Grant will allow Shands doctors to study chemotherapy pill
The pill aims to treat advanced liver cancer
“The trial has the potential to break 
new ground in the treatment of primary                 
liver cancer.”
Dr. Roniel Cabrera
UF assistant professor of medicineLowe
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 11
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
It’s been almost a decade since the 
Sept. 11 attacks. For those who dug 
through the ash and trudged through the fallen towers to save those trapped underneath, Congress is offering a balm 
for their wounds.
The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and 
Compensation Act of 2010, which was 
signed by President Obama on Sunday , allows thousands of people who re-sponded on Sept. 11 to get medical care.
The $4.3 billion bill promises evalu-
ation and treatment for responders and other provisions, including research into 
physical and mental conditions, and 
more compensation for families affected by Sept. 11.
Firefighters, police and bystanders 
who rescued people in the falling build-ings and dug people out of the wreckage were exposed to dust, smoke and other toxins. Some of them have breathing problems, psychological disorders or 
cancer as a result and cannot afford treat-
ment.
The bill passed in the U.S. House of 
Representatives on Sept. 29, was blocked in the Senate on Dec. 9, but ultimately passed on Dec. 22 following public pres-sure by citizens and celebrities, including 
“The Daily Show” host Jon Stewart. 
“The responders finally got some-
one to come to their aid,” said Jeff Lane, 
Gainesville Fire Rescue district chief and the president of the Gainesville Profes-sional Firefighters.
Lane said he was glad that Congress 
could work past the politics to help those who stepped in to serve their country at 
a moment’s notice. 
“I think it’s a positive step that brings 
some closure to one lingering issue after 
9/11,” he said.
Bill O’Connor, a 62-year-old UF jour -
nalism senior, was a fire-fighter in New York City for 23 years. He retired a month before Sept. 11, 
and he said if he hadn’t retired he would have been one of the responders.
“You have to realize that when that 
building collapsed, it wasn’t only steel and dust and asbestos,” he said. “It was human bones.”
He said he was delighted the bill 
passed, though he was frustrated by the politics behind the process.
“The Republicans only allowed it to 
pass because it was so politically abhor -
rent to a large majority of people,” he said.9/11 health bill passesNATIONAL
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Joe Antonelli remembers the number of 
the question that changed his life: 42a.  
He also remembers its wording. It asked, 
in short, “Do you have homosexual tenden-
cies?” 
He answered “yes” and was rejected from 
the draft when he was 18 in 1961. 
Now, at 67, he only has one thing to say 
about the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell.” 
“It’s about time,” he said.  On Dec. 22, President Barack Obama 
signed the repeal of the 17-year-old law that 
kept gay service members from being open 
about their sexuality. The policy was imple-
mented by the Clinton administration in 1993 as a compromise to the previous ruling of not 
allowing any homosexuals in the military. 
Antonelli, the founder and president of 
Gainesville Community Alliance, a social  group of gay individuals, said the issue is 
nothing new. 
“People had to lead double lives and didn’t 
pursue careers because of it,” he said.
He said many jobs that were needed in 
the military could have been filled by gays 
who either didn’t join because of the policy or 
were thrown out because of it. 
More than 14,000 service members were 
discharged between 1994 and 2009, according to Servicemembers United, a nonpartisan and nonprofit organization.  
“It hurt all of us,” Antonelli said.
A.C. Stokes, director of LGBT affairs at 
UF, agreed that the repeal is a step forward 
but also said she believes that there should be 
changes with the military and how it is main-
tained. 
She said she doesn’t know how things will 
change on campus. 
Lt. Col. Bob Quint, a UF Army ROTC re-
cruiter, said he was instructed not to speak 
about DADT.
UF Navy ROTC had no comment. 
The repeal will not be implemented until 
60 days after being signed into law.
Ricky Carter, Student Government LG-
BTQ student affairs director, said he put ev-
erything off the day of the Senate vote so he 
could watch it.
“It was a nice gift at the end of the year,” 
he said.
For Antonelli,  the repeal represents a ma-
jor step toward equality . 
“It can only look best for America in the 
long run,” he said.DADT repeal welcomed 
by students, residents
NewsNational “It hurt all of us.”
Joe Antonelli
founder and president of Gainesville 
Community Alliance12, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
By LYDIA ROSENFELDT
Alligator Contributing Writer
In any other circumstance, she 
would have pounced on the chance 
to spend a weekend at Hotel Duval, one of Tallahassee’s most luxurious.
She would have paused to ad-
mire the lobby’s contemporary 
decor, with its low-slung leather 
lounge chairs and cascading chan-
deliers. She would have casually scanned the crowded bar, locking 
eyes with one of the younger, clean-
shaven and crisp-collared profes-
sionals sipping after-work cocktails.
But tonight, her steps are quick. 
She ducks her head and silently prays nobody sees her.
She’s working this weekend, her 
first time. She’s nervous.
Her name is Mel. She met this 
man on the Internet. He’s older than her dad. He told his wife and 
two children that he was going on 
a business trip. I’ll be back Sunday 
night, he told them.
She’s spoken to him on the phone 
a few times. His name is Tom. She 
sensed he was distracted, not much 
interested in deep conversation. So 
she clucked enthusiastically about 
hollow topics, like the weather, or 
her minimal knowledge of football.
He sent her some photos. Pro-
fessional photographs taken from when he was featured in a maga-
zine article. He is bald, and not in a 
muscular, Mr. Clean kind of way.
She’s in the lobby , laden with 
two matching pink duffel bags, one 
for shoes.
It’s not too late, she can turn 
around, march back to the parking 
lot and drive away.
Now she’s in the elevator, 
crammed between serious men in suits with briefcases and BlackBer -
ries. Her lower back puddles a ner -
vous sweat.
It’s not too late. She could be at 
her apartment in 15 minutes.  The 
apartment with her second-floor 
bedroom painted pale yellow, deco-
rated in picture frames of her with 
friends, her parents and yellow lab, 
Caesar, when he was a puppy .  Her 
room, just how she left it, textbooks 
piled on a desk next to empty coffee mugs, clothes scattered on the floor, 
this weekend’s reject pile.
Now she’s on the top floor in 
the hallway . She moves past closed 
doors and double-checks the num-ber scribbled on a crumpled scrap 
paper.  She’s here.
It’s not too late. If she hurries, 
she can make it to the end of happy 
hour. Her girlfriends seated at their usual table near the bar, surrounded 
by empty margarita pitchers, fre-
quent bursts of laughter interrupt-
ing the table’s chatter.
Her palms are clammy and 
tense, heart thumping like a fright-
ened hare within her ribs.
She knocks.She met him in an online dat-
ing site. The site didn’t broadcast promises of love or soul mates. It 
didn’t crow about a commitment to compatibility matching. It wasn’t 
adorned in pictures of doting cou-
ples or flushed brides.
The site is SeekingArrangement.
com, where older, affluent men meet 
women who are young, fresh-faced and sometimes, quietly desperate.
It’s a trade-off. His gifts can in-
clude monthly allowances, posh 
vacations, spa visits, jewelry and 
designer-clothing shopping sprees. 
In return, he’ll get a stroked ego, 
doting attention and the arm candy 
of a younger woman, whose win-
some, youthful beauty requires little 
artifice or cosmetic enhancement.
He’ll also get sex.On Monday, Mel will be a 
22-year-old student at Florida State 
University , a social science major 
with a 4.0 GPA. Tuesday , she’ll be 
a babysitter. The kids, 3 and 6, are 
pictured on her cell phone.
But this weekend, Mel is a sugar 
baby.
There are thousands like Mel. 
On the surface they are normal col-lege girls, with internships, Face-
book profiles, boyfriends and career goals. But they are more defiant, 
daring, restless, promiscuous. Or it’s a last resort.
The benefits of becoming a sugar 
baby are attractive: paid bills, fancy clothes, new jewelry, expensive hair -
cuts, monthly allowances, luxurious 
vacations, the consummate feeling of financial security.
There is one prerequisite. A sugar 
baby must be sexually willing; may-
be not on the first date but probably 
by the second and almost definitely by the third. Sooner or later, sex is almost always a must.
Hannah, a 22-year-old model 
and actress in Tampa, calls herself an “accomplished magazine mod-
el” and a European Playboy model.  
She costs $5,000 - $10,000 a month.
Vanessa, a 22-year-old full-time 
student in West Palm Beach, con-siders herself a “far cry from ordi-
nary .”  She enjoys horseback riding, 
conversation and cooking and says 
she’s mature for her age. She is look-
ing for a successful sugar daddy to 
show her “all that the world has to 
offer.”
A 23-year-old student in Miami, 
who calls herself ItalianDoll, wants 
$3,000 to $5,000 a month. She is 
looking for a long-term relationship and wants to get started right away.
Critics say that a sugar baby 
is nothing but a refined term for a 
prostitute, and a sugar daddy , no 
more than a well-off john. 
But unlike prostitution, “sugar” 
dating is legal. In the 1970s, courts ruled that as long as women are 
paid for a service other than sex, 
such as companionship or a per -
sonal assistant, it is not the same as 
prostitution.  
“If I believed what I did was 
prostitution, I wouldn’t do it,” says 
Brandon Wade, CEO and Founder 
of SeekingArrangement. “Sugar” dating is a relationship, he says. It 
is more emotionally involved than escorting or prostitution.  
“Members often write to us to 
tell us what a great thing Seeking 
Arrangement has been for them,” 
Wade said. 
The “trivial” differences between a “kept woman” and a prostitute make it difficult for courts to prove 
illegality, explains Robert Buschel, a 
criminal defense attorney in south 
Florida.
“Criminal courts may have a 
tough time (corroborating prostitu-
tion) when the arrangement is for 
more than an hour, and the money is 
not just about the sex, but the com-panionship, too,” he said. “Only the 
woman’s conscience and ethics can 
really answer that question.”
There are thousands like Tom. 
Older, moneyed men, married, di-vorced, single and widowed, flock-
ing to sugar daddy sites like Seekin-
gArrangement.
They want beauty, youth, com-
panionship, intimacy, a travel part-ner, the fulfillment of a sexual fan-
tasy, even love.
A 50-year-old UF professor is 
seeking a “young playmate.” He is married, likes movies, reading, trav-
eling and wants a discreet relation-
ship. His budget is less than $1,000 
a month.
Gary, a 56-year-old married at-
torney in Orlando, is looking for “casual fun meetings once or twice 
a week for mutual enjoyment.” Be-
sides his love for spoiling the right 
woman, he enjoys movies, books 
and sporting events. His budget is $5,000 to $10,000 a month.
Don, a Tampa CEO who alleges 
his net worth to be between $10 mil-
lion to $50 million, is pictured in a 
white tuxedo, toting a cocktail. He is 
65, married, but lives alone and has 
had successful arrangements for 10 years. He is looking for a “thin, very 
good looking” 21- to 35-year-old 
woman “who would enjoy a couple of evenings each week devoted to physical activity, drinking, fine din-
ing and club dancing.”
“I have the financial capacity to 
fulfill my end of the arrangement,” 
Don says. “If you have the physical 
attributes to fulfill your end.”
Mel says she never quite un-
derstood why Tom wanted a sugar 
baby . He had young kids and a pretty wife. He mentioned that his 
marital sex life was fine. Another 
time his wife called, conversation 
ended with “I love you.”
“The roles are defined. It cuts 
through all the BS,” explains Bryan, a 49-year-old divorced doctor who 
has a profile on SeekingArrange-
ment. “Each party gets what they 
want without the normal bitching or moaning from either person.”
In other words, Bryan says, it’s 
real life and a fantasy all at once.
Like any other dating site, sugar 
daddy dating allows its users to upload photos to their profiles. But 
most of the sugar daddy profiles 
don’t post identifiable pictures. 
Some upload photos of an expen-
sive car or yacht, others use a pic-ture of someone else, many distort 
their own photo or crop out their 
head.
And some include no picture at 
all.
In the modern world of sexual 
liberation, of one-night stands and 
of fleeting sexual encounters, sex with a stranger isn’t a big deal to 
some women. If they can get paid to 
do it, then why not?   
Still, in the age of the Boston 
Craigslist killer and rampant STDs, the risk is obvious.
“I had $12.62 in my bank ac-
count,” Mel explains. “There was 
no food in my fridge. I needed a 
pedicure, highlights. I was so sick of 
my clothes.”
Mel’s parents — her dad is in 
sales and her mom is unemployed — helped her as much as they could. 
But after monthly rent, utilities and 
groceries, her weekly babysitting 
money was near gone.
Mel could have survived with-
out becoming a sugar baby . But it 
would have meant Ramen noodles 
for dinner, thrift store clothing and 
bagging groceries at Publix.
She runs a manicured finger 
through freshly highlighted hair.
“I hated being broke; I was just 
over it,” she said.
She joined SeekingArrange-
ment.com in December 2009. She 
exchanged a series of flirty and 
suggestive messages with sugar 
daddies. If a sugar daddy’s punc-tuation or spelling was poor, she 
didn’t respond.
“If they are inarticulate, odds are 
they aren’t rich either,” she said. 
By February she had roused 
enough courage to meet her first sugar daddy, Tom.
The occasional stares are less un-
comfortable as the martinis flow.
They drink, eat and manage to 
minimize awkward silences. Mel only half listens when he puffs 
about his importance. Occasionally 
he says something of interest, jolt- Online escort service provides trade-off for custom ers
Young women paid for company, sex
SEE SUGAR, p AGE 13Courtesy to the Alligator
A screen shot of Seeking Arrangements.com.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 13
Women become ‘sugar babies’ for extra money, security 
ing her back. She’s a good listener, 
and she disguises her indifference well.
  Tom does not ask too many 
personal questions, uncomfortable 
with the reality that he is quite pos-
sibly older than Mel’s parents. His 
children from his ﬁ  rst marriage are 
older than Mel, but he probably 
would rather not think about this.
  He does most of the talking. She 
chimes in with “mhm” or “uh huh,” 
or “wow!  you’re kidding me?!” or 
“really?” as appropriate.
  He pays with cash.  Too much alcohol makes his 
cheeks ruddy and broken capillar-
ies surface. 
He doesn’t say anything, but 
looks impatient for Mel to ﬁ  nish 
her martini. Mel slurps it down and 
wishes she could order another.
  She can tolerate him; he has no 
deformities, unbearable habits or bad breath. For the money, she will 
make it work.
  Back in the suite, he wastes no 
time.
  He runs his ﬁ  ngers through her 
blonde, carefully straightened hair, and she knows, Tom has vanished. The older, somewhat boring gentle-
man, it seems, transforms. The nat-ural oils on his bald head glisten. 
He subconsciously works his jaw back and forth, like a hungry 
animal.
  She shuts her eyes.
  Now, under the protection of 
darkness, she can pretend that the grunting on top of her is Orlando 
Bloom.
 Deep in fantasy, she’s a natural, 
a woman of sexual rigor and prow-ess.
  It doesn’t take long. A ﬁ  nal grunt, 
followed by a shudder.
  Mel opens her eyes and feels 
sick.  
  Mel would “endure,” as she later 
described it, the weekend with Tom, eyes squeezed shut for many other 
short-lived sexual liaisons.
  She never saw Tom again. He 
called, sent text messages and left voicemails. At ﬁ  rst he sounded con-cerned, later irritated and ﬁ  nally , angry . The $2,500 was intended for her monthly allowance, meaning 
she was expected to be available for 
the rest of February .   
  “He was not amused,” Mel said, 
laughing.
  Still, Mel now describes her ﬁ  rst 
weekend as a sugar baby as “the easiest money I ever made.” 
  But it was also the easiest money 
she ever spent.  
  Despite her aversion to Tom, 
she began to search for a new sugar 
daddy, this time with less trepida-tion and more experience.  Mel went on lunch, dinner and 
drink dates. She shared ritzy hotel 
rooms, was a guest in an ocean-front condo, sailed in a yacht and 
got a couple’s massage with a near 
stranger.
  She learned from her mistake 
with Tom, always meeting a poten-tial sugar daddy at a restaurant or 
bar for the ﬁ  rst time. This way , she 
wouldn’t feel obligated to disrobe 
hours later, and if she disliked him, 
she could leave.
  When Mel mastered how to com-
partmentalize her feelings, being a sugar baby became a viable way to 
make money. And since graduating 
summa cum laude at FSU in May, 
Mel, taking a year off, has been a full-time sugar baby.
  She has money for manicures, 
pedicures, cute shoes and new 
clothes. 
She put the money she got from 
Tom toward an active social life with age-appropriate friends and 
an LSAT prep course.  
  Her most hefty purchase, breast 
implants, cost $5,000. 
  In a rare moment of introspec-
tion, Mel does recognize that while her ﬁ  nancial position has improved, 
it came at an emotional cost.
  In an era where daughters are 
frequently close conﬁ  dants with 
their mothers, Mel has secrets. She feels pangs of guilt every time she invents yet another story as to how she got her Fendi bag, another spa 
trip, a tan during a cold front or an-other dress. 
  Keeping a boyfriend is also difﬁ  -
cult, with long, unexplained absenc-
es when she cannot be reached.
  Until a few weeks ago, Mel wast-
ed few thoughts on sacriﬁ  ces. She 
had little intention of retiring from her part-time career.
  Then she started to date some-
one, a relationship that didn’t begin on the Internet.  He’s mature, she 
says, has a good job, laughs at her jokes and he’s her age.
  There are no discretion and pay-
to-play rules. He can meet her fam-
ily and she can meet his. People don’t stare. She’s not a trophy but an equal.
  He is worth giving up sugar dat-
ing, at least for now. 
  Editor’s note:   Mel is a real person, 
and all the details in the story are real. 
Due to the nature of the story, her last name is being withheld. The hotel scene 
was recreated from interviews with 
Mel. SUGAR , from page 12
 Courtesy to the Alligator
  A screen shot of Seeking Arrangements.com. 
14, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
By MIGUEL CHATELOIN
Alligator Writer
Online dating just got less creepy for stu-
dents.
University of Miami business graduate 
Jonathan Rosen has created University Date 
Finder, a student and alumni dating website 
featuring UF along with other universities 
nationwide.
The service is free and available only to students ages 18 through 32 with a .edu e-mail address.
Rosen thinks students who don’t have 
much time for a social life, are new to a city, or are unsure of meeting people on general dating websites like Match.com and eHar -
mony will benefit from his site.
“You don’t have to worry about meeting 
some creepy 60-year-old,” Rosen said.
Members will be able to search for part-
ners like other dating services but will able to filter matches by majors, colleges and oth-er student-related categories.
Additionally, users can send flirts to each 
other, similar to pokes on Facebook. 
He is considering adding instant messag-
ing as a feature.
Rosen hopes it becomes 
popular in big cities and college towns. 
The website already features 
major national universities, including Har -
vard and UC Berkley.
“UF is kind of a test for a college town,” 
said Rosen. “I think UF has potential because of its alumni network.”
After getting the idea for the website six 
months ago, Rosen got help and legal advice from The Launch Pad, a UM entrepreneurial resource for students.
UM graduate Gigi Alex, who gave Rosen 
feedback when told about the website, felt it was a good idea. 
“It’s going to be free,” said Alex. “That 
coupled with the idea of only meeting col-lege students will be great.”
University Date Finder launches today 
and can be found at universitydatefinder.com.Dating site narrows field to college students, alumni
The site is free and launches today
StudentLifeWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
NATIONAL
ASSOCIATED PRESS
WYALUSING, Pa.  — It looks like Jean 
Stevens will be reunited with the two people 
she loved so much that she wanted them to keep her company after they died.
The 91-year-old widow who lived with 
the embalmed corpses of her husband and twin sister — until authorities found out and took them away — is hopeful they’ll be re-turned soon.
Workmen at Stevens’ rural property out-
side the northern Pennsylvania town of Wy-alusing have been busy the past few months, erecting a gabled building with gray siding and a white door. It resembles an oversized 
shed, or a smaller version of Stevens’ de-
tached garage.
In reality, it’s a mausoleum that Stevens 
intends as the final resting place of her hus-band of nearly 60 years, James Stevens, and her twin, June Stevens. And authorities have told her it’s the only way she can get them back.
She can’t wait.
“I think about them all the time,” Stevens 
told The Associated Press a few days before 
Christmas, “and I always will.”
The coroner, she said, “has them up there 
in the cold box, which makes me shiver. He says, ‘They’re all right, Jean, you don’t have to worry about them.’”
Stevens had their bodies dug up shortly 
after they died — James in 1999, June in 2009 
— because she couldn’t bear not being able 
to see them again. She kept her husband on a couch in the garage, and her sister in a spare room off the bedroom, where “I could touch her and look at her and talk to her,” Stevens told AP last summer.
“Death is very hard for me to take,” she 
added then.Stevens’ tale touched a chord. She es-
timates she received about 70 letters from around the world, most of them express-
ing well-wishes and sympathy. She’s writ-
ten back to some. One of her new pen pals mailed a Christmas package with fruitcake, mints, and a holiday tin stuffed with Chex mix. “Dearest Jean,” wrote her correspon-
dent, “you’ve sent us a Christmas treasure, 
your letter!”
Stevens also knows that some people 
think she’s strange. She laughs heartily as she leafs through a pair of supermarket tab-loids that had blared her story. She says Jay Leno once cracked a joke about her.
But it’s Stevens who may get the last 
laugh.
Bradford County authorities, who have 
been storing the bodies in the morgue since they took them away in June, have told Ste-vens she can have them back if she builds an aboveground vault.
Coroner Tom Carman said he plans to re-
lease them once it’s completed.
“I want to get Jimmy and June back to her 
just as soon as I possibly can,” he said.
Carman has struck up an unusual friend-
ship with Stevens. He’s spent hours listen-ing to her talk, mainly about the past. “She’s a wonderful lady,” he said.
Stevens plans to place her husband and 
sister in body bags with clear panels, so she can see their faces.
The mausoleum is large enough to hold 
as many as eight bodies. Stevens said she’d 
like to transfer the remains of several loved 
ones to the crypt, including those of her long-deceased mother and father.
One of the spots will be reserved.“She means to be placed there, as well,” 
Carman said. “She’s made that very clear.”Pa. widow builds vault, could get corpses back 
AP Photo
This Dec. 20 photo shows a mausoleum on Jean Stevens’ property in Wyalusing, Pa. 
Stevens, 91, who lived with the corpses of her husband and twin sister.
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
It started with rock ‘n’ roll. 
Then came blues. Jazz soon fol-
lowed. 
Little by little, Ted Sharpe’s 
love for music grew. Eventually, it 
reached the point where he found 
himself prowling around San Fran-cisco, searching thrift shops for used records, fantasizing about one day opening his own record shop. 
He lived his dream in the form of 
Sharpe’s Music, a used-record store that has stood in its location on Uni-versity Avenue since 1990.
But 20 years later, the swan song 
sounds for Sharpe’s as it closed its doors for good Dec. 28.
The walls that were once cov-
ered with albums by The Beatles, Lou Reed and special edition prints of Pink Floyd’s “Dark Side Of The Moon” were blank, and the shop shuttered for good.
Sharpe, now 67, is headed for 
retirement and opting to move his shop — which primarily sells vinyl records, along with CDs, cassettes and sound equipment — to an eBay store online. 
“I’ve been doing this for 20 
years,” he said. “I just thought I’m ready to kick back a little bit.” 
Though economic struggles have 
caused some local businesses to close their doors, Sharpe said his business has remained profitable. 
“It’s just a question of whether I want to stay in retail,” he said. “If I was 20 years younger, I’d probably stick with it.”
He tried to keep the business 
alive by selling it on Craigslist and 
even on eBay, but no one was will-ing to buy it. 
He donated the remaining stock 
to local thrift stores and charitable 
organizations such as Friends of the Library and Habitat for Humanity.
Chad Darby, a 29-year-old em-ployee at local record label No Idea 
Records, said he started shopping 
regularly at Sharpe’s when he ar -
rived at UF 10 years ago. 
He came in search of punk-rock 
records, but eventually, Sharpe’s be-came his destination when in search 
of rarer items, he said. 
“If there’s ever some weird ran-
dom record I’m looking for, it’s usu-
ally the first place I check,” he said. “Sharpe knows his music.”
But Darby said he had taken the 
shop for granted. 
“I kind of figured it’d always be 
here,” he said. 
The closing of Sharpe’s prompts 
the question of whether record shops like Sharpe’s will survive in the new age of digital music.
Sharpe believes that a physical 
store gives its customers a chance to delve into the unknown and stum-ble upon a treasure as they browse the shelves. 
UF professor Ji Hoon Lee, who 
teaches History of Rock ‘n’ Roll, said he agrees with Sharpe. 
He said that the sonic imperfec-
tions of vinyl, such as the crackling and popping, make each person’s copy unique and give it a personal touch. However, Lee said the cus-tomer base for vinyl is still limited 
compared to its heyday, which end-
ed when CDs went mainstream in the late 1980s and early 1990s. 
That makes it tough for smaller 
record shops to survive solely by specializing in vinyl, Lee said.
But for Sharpe, it’s not the indus-
try pushing him to bow out; it’s the daily grind of working a retail store. 
“I didn’t think I’d be here five 
years,” he said. “But it turned into 20.”16, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
Alex Orlando / Alligator
The building that once housed Sharpe’s Music on West University Avenue stands unsold while the prior 
proprietors empty out their inventory Tuesday night.
LOCALGainesville used-record store closes after 20 yearsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 17
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Gainesville Place
Now leasing for 2011-2012!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
 (352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
Student Friendly 4/4's 
$424 for EVERYTHING
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
ONLY $410/person
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES
3Bedroom/3Bathroom
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 QUIET SPLIT-PLAN HOME IN HAILE
Has furnished 2BR/1BA. $385/per BR.
Cable, utils, use of W/D, kitchen.Non-smoker. Leave message 352-377-1648   1-5-10-7-1
ONE BLOCK FROM LIBRARY WEST
*$350/month ALL INCLUSIVE*
->Includes food, utilities, internet, parking
Apply at www.cloliving.org TODAY 
Cooperative Living Organization, 
352.377.4269
1-5-10-5-1
1BR/1BA avail in 4/4 beautiful gated 
Countryside complex. $335/mo incls all utils, 
cable, internet, etc. Big Screen tv in living 
room! Looking for female, Sublease OK. 
Shahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com, 754-281-5023    
1-5-10-2-1
2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move in ANY time, Highly negotiableterms, Friendly roommates, $379/m OR best offer, call/text 813-205-1549 or email ibukreyev@ufl.edu    1-14-10-8-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350/MO. 372-6881, 213-3901        4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2 1\2B. $549 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 Studios $599 Downtown location
Arlington 352-338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 Townhomes!!
FREE Cable w/HBO and Showtime
All Amenities plus FREE Tanning
Gated*Pet Friendly*Fitness Classes
*NEWLY UPGRADED APT HOMES*
www.thelaurelsuf.com 352-335-4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-11114-20-10-70-2        2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-2
1 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
One Month Free
The Retreat @ Madison Pointe
2 bedroom 2 bathroom w/ Attached Garage
W/D, microwave, Private BathroomsEnormous Screened in Porch352-372-04004-20-70-2
●3/3 Only $899/month●
Mention This Ad To Receive
$0 MOVE IN FEES!!
3 Bus Routes (9,34,35) & Great Amenities!
(352)335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
● Amazing Rent on 1 and 2BR apts.
Ranging from $390 to $545.Sorry no pets or Section 8.Madison on 20th. 335-7066      4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $540.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625
·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779
·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!4-20-10-70-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By Email : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Use forms appearing weekly in TheAlligator. Sorry, no cash by mail. MC,Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or Mastercard at www.alligator.org/classified
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $699 2/2's from $799
3/3's from $899
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, Restaurants
Free UF Parking!
352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
2.1 1/2 Bath Townhome
select units from 500.
352.376.6720 or 352.376.7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & Showtime
Full size W/D
Pet friendly
352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
NAPIER GRANT
"HUGE" 2 BR/1BA
Starting at $525.
W/D hookups. Pets OK
Walk to Vet School
352-377-5221
www.cmcapt.com/napiergrant
Text: napiergrant@65374
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-19-10-103-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
GREAT LOCATION - GREAT PRICE
Modern 2BR/1BA apts on Univ Ave across 
from Stadium & O'Dome. Modern, all elec, cent H/AC, Rent Neg. K&M Properties 372-1509      1-5-10-67-2
1BR/1BA, full kitchen. Near UF. 
H2O & sewer incl. $475/mo.
Call 352-332-8481 or 352-359-1644   1-5-10-51-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  
greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, 
bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 
352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-
10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
HISTORIC APTS Pleasant Street Historic
District. 2BR $850, two 1BRs $625 & $575.one efficiency $475. Hardwood floors, ceilingfans, high ceiling & porches. 1st, last, security.No dogs. 538-1550 aprleve@aol.com   1-5-10-22-2
HISTORIC HOUSES ● 3BR/1.5 BA front 
porch, ceiling fans, hardwood floors. $1280/
mo 222 NW 4th Ave. ● 3BR/1BA 923 SE 4th 
St. Large yard, $1000/mo 1st, last, sec. No dogs. aprleve@aol.com or 352-538-1550   1-5-10-22-2
● HOUSE 4BR/3BA 2816 W University Ave 
1 mi to UF. Fenced-in nice backyard. W/D, DW. $1450/mo Negotiable.●3BR2BA 3627 SW 15th St. $850/mo.327-2931, 376-6183    1-5-10-22-2
1 BLK TO UF! Behind Leonardos 
Pizza.  2BR 1 BA AptsCentral H & Air, 1234 Sw 1st Ave- $600/Mo   Call Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494     1-7-10-21-2
$475 per Month  2BR 1BA Apts
3  BLKS TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty ofParking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  St. Croix Apts, Call Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494 x10 ortazzie21@bellsouth.net     1-7-10-21-2
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF
New Carpet $450/Mo  Window A/C,Nat Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.  Call Merrill Management Inc. 352-372-1494     1-7-10-21-2
EFFECIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/CCarpet, Across from UF Stadium1830 NW 1st Avenue  $295/MoCall Merrill Management Inc 352-372-1494     1-7-10-21-2
GRAD II APTS
1236 SW 4th Avenue1BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UFCentral H & Air, IncldsWtr, Swg, Pest Contrl $500/MoCall Merrill Management Inc352-372-1494 x10       1-7-10-21-2The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●●1BR/1BA APARTMENT●●
Cent heat/air, new carpet/paint, new applianc -
es, new cabinets. 1109 NW 41st Ave. $500/
mo. www.AndreeRealty.com 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2 
●●●4BR/2BA HOUSE●●●
One mile to UF, offers fenced yard, washer/
dryer, lawn service, pest control included. $1100/mo ANDREE REALTY 352-375-2900    1-5-10-13-2
DUCKPOND STONE COTTAGE STUDIO
Located behind vintage house. Small but 
cute! Full kitchen, bath, W/D, large yard, 
quiet. Avail Dec/Jan. $475/mo. 306 NE 6th 
St 352-538-6527   1-5-10-7-2
1 BD APT IN VINTAGE 100 YR OLD HOME!
Hardwood flrs ,tile kitchen and bath, new 
cabinets, high ceilings, large closet, washer/
dryer, fireplace. free internet. 115 NE 9th St 
$500 per mo 317-1458 Avail now.  1-5-10-
7-2
MILL POND CONDO
3BR/2BA, garage. Across from GHFC. 
$1000/mo. Available January. 331-6872   1-5-10-7-2
5bd/2ba $1400/mo. or 5 share at $280 each. 
Screened in pool! Fenced-in backyard. Over 
1,800 sq ft! Fireplace,living,dining, kitch-
en. Furniture and washer/dryer available. 
Walking distance to bus line. 3 miles from 
UF. Email rfandler@hotmail.com   1-5-10-
6-2
LARGE HOUSE 3BR/2BA
All wood floors, 4 fireplaces. Downtown in 
the bed & breakfast area. $1500/mo. 352-373-7566   1-5-10-5-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 352-871-7801   1-5-10-5-2
Immaculate small efficiency,quiet.Wash/dry 
on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No pets. 1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus routes.Avail Dec 27.$399/m 352-262-2871 Owner agent. 1-7-10-4-2
A charming, 3 BR/1.5 BA house. Great 
Neighborhood. Close to UF. W/D. Available Jan 1. 2 people- $800/mo. 3 people - $900/mo. Mark 352-672-4072    1-10-5-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Stratford Court
Reduced $300/mo!
1 BR Luxury Apartment--800 sf plus balcony
$829/mo; walk 1 block to UF campus
Contact Stephanie at 954-536-5133
1-5-10-7-3
Sublease a 1/1 @ The Laurels on 34th St. 
$809 per month + utilities, unfurnished; Pet fee not included. Quite area, On bus route. Begins 1/1/2011 to 7/30/2011. Please call 813-310-7636 or 813-317-6842.   1-13-10-10-3
Sublease in a 3/2@ Gateway at Gainesville on 
37th blvd. 359$/month +utilities,furnished,pet friendly and on bus route. Call: 561-452-6478,561-839-0356,561793-9009 for more info    1-5-10-1-3WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 19
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $425/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79291-31-10-42-4
Female seeking same $385+1/3 utl (Wrls int, 
Sat tv, & GRU). Room for rent in 3/2 house 
in NW neighborhoods, quiet area. Avail now.
Pet friendly, W/D, wood flrs, fenced yard.
Bus route 8. Jessica 352-222-6900   1-12-
10-30-4
LARGE BEDROOM, PRIVATE BATH in 
3/3 townhome. Share with 2 UF Seniors. 
Washer/dryer, pool, tennis. Screened porch 
faces trees. On bus route. Convenient to 
Santa Fe.  $395 plus 1/3 utils. 301-305-6206.   
1-11-10-15-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.   1-5-10-
6-4
Roommate wanted- Share nice clean NW 
area 3 Br, 2 bath single family home with two senior UF students- fenced back yard- wash-er/ dryer-fireplace- $320 mo. & 1/3 utilities. Call Jon-321-537-5640 or 352-665-9547   1-5-10-2-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
ELECTRIC BIKE
Will go 40 miles on a charge. Paid over $800, ridden only 5 miles. Beautiful trail style. Will go 15 mph. Asking $500 386-462-3148. May have to leave message.   1-5-10-4-9
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★BK CHRISTMAS TREES★
Containerized Southern Red Cedar & 
Arizona Cypress. 2ft - 12ft, $5 - $65. 20926 NW 75th St, Alachua. 386-462-2060    1-5-10-9-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit 
shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-
able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $149997 Pontiac Transport $149996 Chevy Blazer $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
Great bargain:
Year 2000, model Chrysler Cirrus, extra 
clean body and interior, 11400 miles. $5490 or the best offer. Call 352-375-6754   1-5-10-4-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
I'm blind, Catholic, & attend Mass at Queen 
of Peace. If you're interested in sharing 
transportation with me, you can be my bless-
ing. Please call 352-219-6948. I often take 
part in church service, as a lector or greeter.  
1-14-10-70-13
BE A BLESSING TO ME, AND COME HELP 
ME LEARN TO RAKE KNIT, 2 Wednesday 
evenings a month. The things we will make 
WILL BE SENT TO HAITI AND OTHER 
PLACES. Call 352-219-6948.     1-14-10-
70-13
St. Francis House is a
homeless shelter and soup kitchen located 
in downtown Gainesville and
we are looking for help from
volunteers like you. St. Francis House is in 
need of donations such as razors, body  
wash, soap and toothbrushes.
If you are interested in helping
please contact:
Jared Salter at (352) 378-9079
or by email at:
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
1-5-6-1320, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$250 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
FUTURE GMs
Now hiring assistant managers
GatorDominos.com/jobs4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
HIRING 50 DRIVERS
Domino’s is hiring drivers for all shifts.  Applicants must have 1 ticket maximum in 
the last 3 years, a 2003 or newer car and a 
positive attitude.  $12-$15 per hour.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com.    4-20-10-70-14Academy Medical is offering an internship to 
help build out its technology infrastructure. 
Candidates must have strong IT skills includ-
ing SQL. Previous experience with building 
online databases is a plus. 20 hours week @ 
$15/hr. Please send resumes to rob@acade-
mymedical.net. Questions call Rob Fischetti 
at 804-690-4422.   1-5-10-21-14
What's black and white & read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged 
to apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/em-ployment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends 
avail.   1-5-10-17-14FT NANNY needed M-F start by JAN;
min 2 wks/mon for 40hrs;  travel w/ mom;
3yr old / 9 mon; $12/hr; exp; good refs;
Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix,
schedule to gnv@nanoneone.com    1-5-10-
15-14
BARN HELP
Sundays only in exchange for lessons 
at Hunter/Jumper facility. EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 352-359-4149   1-5-10-15-1
TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
1-7-10-9-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT
Flex hours. Excellent Word, Excel, typing, 
internet skills. $7.25/hr. Indicate current and 
spring semester available schedules, major, 
graduating semester. siva1950@yahoo.com   
1-5-10-7-14
NOW HIRING
Experienced Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2011
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-14-10-11-14
Prepbooks.com's
Hiring outgoing and motivated Campus Reps 
I,II,III for PT positions. Apply on website 
Career Section under About Us.
Pay from $9 to $22/hr.               1-5-10-2-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $7.50/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St   1-5-10-3-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-ning & overnight shifts currently available email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-3617   2-28-10-39-14
ROCKEYS DUELING PIANO BAR HIRING:
Servers & Security. Experience, stong com-munitcation skills, positive, outgoing person-ality, team player. Fun, busy, exciting! 112 S. Main St. rockeysduelingpianos@gmail.com   1-5-10-2-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. Compensation will be provided. If interested, call 336-406-3706 or emailuflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-13-7-14
PRIVATE TUTOR needed for 7th grade boy 
in Oak Hall. General subjects (hist. sci. eng) and organization. 2-3 days/w. Fee based on qualifications. 352 466 3255.    1-14-10-7-14THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Will Earth be hit by an unknown planet? Leo 
Roy will be having a talk on 1/5/11 about the event that will be coming towards Earth Dec. 10-27, 2012 at the Alachua County Lib. Room A. 1-3pm All welcomed to a curious talk!    1-5-5-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
LOST VIDEO CAMERA
Panasonic SDR H40 42x
Last seen at the bathouses Sat 10/9/10
Any info call (850) 543-3762
REWARD $500
1-6-25-25A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, 
Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
International Health teams for students!
Our trips work around your schedule.Check out our website for an experiencethat will change your life! www.islonline.org   1-5-10-7-15
Uf Building Mechanic seeks after-hours & 
weekend projects. Repair/replace A/C, bath-rooms, doors, windows, walls, ceilings, etc. Free estimates. Call after 3:30, M-F or all day weekends. mvsuron@cox.net or 275-6936   1-5-10-3-15
DOG OR CAT SITTER or DOG WALKER
Small or medium size dog or cat. I have a 
big yard and years of experience. For details 
please call 352-377-4239 anytime. Please 
leave message with phone number.   1-10-10-4-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 21
Sports
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
ONLINE alligatorSports on Twitter TEEING OFF WITH ANTHONY CHIANGn FLORIDA FOLLOWED UP ITS ROAD VIC -
TORY AGAINST XAVIER BY BEATING RHODE 
ISLAND AT HOME ON MONDAY NIGHT.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
In many other weeks, a victory at home over 
Rhode Island might be just a run-of-the-mill occur -
rence. 
But Monday’s 25-point thumping of the Rams 
was something more not just because of its domi-
nance, but also its timing. 
For the first time this season the Gators consoli -
dated one big win with another, as they followed Friday’s triumph over Xavier with a second im-pressive performance by defeating URI 84-59 in the O’Connell Center. 
“For us to play the way we did as a team tonight 
really says something,” senior Chandler Parsons said after Monday’s game. “We’ve been struggling 
coming off of big wins playing the next game, and 
we understand that they have a really good team and are really explosive offensively, so we didn’t want to let down.”
In snapping Xavier’s 30-game home winning 
streak on New Year’s Eve, the Gators created a new challenge for themselves: stay focused and get ready 
to play Rhode Island in just three days. 
After duds against Central Florida and Jack-
sonville that were only two days removed from 
gigantic wins over Florida State and Kansas State, another letdown appeared to be in the cards against Gators enjoy rare repeat success with win over URI
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
 Florida senior forward Chandler Parsons, who scored 18 points and grabbed 12 rebounds Monday night, said the team has 
matured following two upset losses earlier this season against Central Florida and Jacksonville.
Hey, Gators fans: Will Mus-
champ isn’t the only high-energy new boss in town.
The move may not be quite as 
highly publicized, and it likely won’t have the monetary or emotional im-pact on quite as many lives. In fact, possibly the only other thing the two of us have in common is that Adam Berry also occasionally enjoys refer -
ring to himself in the third person.
Still, I couldn’t be more excited to 
be back at UF as the Alligator’s sports editor for the spring semester. These are my final few months as a college student, although I feel like a fresh-man again after being away for eight months.
I spent the summer covering the Tampa Bay Rays as an MLB.com in-tern and the 
fall as a sports 
intern at the St. Petersburg Times. While I thoroughly en-joyed my time away, I can’t 
help but notice that quite a bit has changed since I left. 
Put it this way: When I was last 
attending classes, there were whis-pers around Gainesville that, hey, maybe John Brantley will be a better “real quarterback” than Tim Tebow. Pro-style changes in storeRECRUITING
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
LAKE BUENA VISTA — For four UF 
oral commitments, this week has been a 
preview of what’s in store during the next 
four years.
Quarterback Jeff Driskel, tight end A.C. 
Leonard, defensive back De’Ante Saunders 
and wide receiver Ja’Juan Story were all 
selected as Under Armour All-Americans this season and have spent the first days of the new year in preparation for tonight’s game, which takes place at Tropicana Field 
in St. Petersburg at 7.
The four have been using the time to-
gether at the Walt Disney World resort to get to know each other off the field and 
build chemistry on it.
“We’re building a great bond,” said 
Leonard, a tight end from Jacksonville Uni-
versity Christian High who 
is rated by Rivals.com as a four-star prospect. “We’ve 
been hanging out almost 
all night every day, and we’ve been texting for a while now.”
Leonard is sharing a 
room with Driskel — the 
nation’s top-rated passer — for the week and said it has been a good experience to catch passes from the quarterback, since UF commits bond during All-
America game preparation
Adam Berry
Editorial Notebook
sports@alligator.org
Twitter: @alligatorSports
n Check out our new recruiting blog online 
at alligatorSports.org: Orange and Blue 
Chips. Recruiting writer Tom Green will be bringing you updates today live from St. Petersburg at the Under Armour game.n I’m so glad to finally hand the reins down to Adam Berry as the alligatorSports 
editor. To celebrate on my first night off from the job, I spent it in the office do -
ing Adam’s dirty work while he soaked up all the glory. ... Reports indicate the Carolina Panthers will select Andrew Luck No. 1 if he enters the NFL Draft. The Panthers are going to need more than a little luck to turn their team around.n Follow our account (@alligator -
Sports), as well as columnists Adam Berry (@adamdberry), Anthony Chiang (@Chiang_Reaction) and Tyler Jett (@iam_tyler).SEE ADAM, p AGE 26
SEE RECRUIT, p AGE 26Driskel
SEE HOOpS, p AGE 26 UF COMMITS AND UNDECIDED PROSPECTS 
EQUALLY IMPRESSED BY NEW HIRES.
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
LAKE BUENA VISTA — When Urban Meyer resigned as 
Florida’s coach last month, recruits were shocked and confused 
by the news. But as Will Muschamp assembled his staff this week, recruits took notice — and they liked what they saw.
Many of the nation’s top prospects, including four UF oral 
commits and several UF targets, are at the Walt Disney World resort this week practicing for today’s Under Armour All-America game, and for many , it was the first time they heard about the Gators’ new coaching staff.
On Sunday , Muschamp’s first official day as UF’s coach, 
the former Texas defensive coordinator named five to his staff, including three coaches he retained from Meyer’s workforce: running backs coach Stan Drayton, linebackers coach D.J. Dur -
kin and tight ends coach Brian White.
And there’s already at least one recruit who is relieved that 
White is staying at Florida.
“I was excited. I love it,” four-star tight end A.C. Leonard 
said. “I talked to him (Sunday) night. I was so happy . That was one of my main concerns, so I’m happy. I’ve always wanted to play for him.”
While keeping a few familiar names on staff, Florida an-
nounced the big-name hire of Kansas City Chiefs offensive co-
ordinator Charlie Weis. 
The addition made a big splash with recruits at the Under 
Armour All-America practice at ESPN’s Wide World of Sports 
complex.
“I’ve never actually met him, but he’s done big things — 
coached at a big-time program in Notre Dame and won Super Bowls in the NFL,” four-star quarterback Jeff Driskel said. “If he can win Super Bowls, he can win national championships, and that’s what we’re looking for.”
Driskel admitted he’s not familiar with the type of offenses 
that Weis has produced, but he’s excited to meet Weis and see what he’s about.
Meanwhile, Driskel spent some time earlier in the week 
playing the latest Madden NFL video game and taking a peek at the Kansas City Chiefs’ offensive playbook.“A.C. played with the Chiefs and I played against him, so 
I scouted (Weis) out a bit,” Driskel joked after Monday’s prac-tice.
Word also got out that Seattle Seahawks defensive line 
coach Dan Quinn was hired as UF’s defensive coordinator.
“That’s big. That’s impressive, right there,” said Alabama 
commit and five-star safety Ha’Sean Clinton-Dix, who is plan-
ning a visit to UF in the coming weeks. “I look forward to meet-
ing him and meeting with all the coaches there.”Some recruits weren’t as familiar with Quinn’s name, but 
many were excited that he has NFL experience on his résumé. 
“He could take me to the next level,” said four-star Miami 
Monsignor Pace High safety Jabari Gorman, who will an-nounce his commitment at Wednesday’s game. “I love coaches that have already been in the league, because he knows what it takes to get there.”
Oral commitments are non-binding until a national letter of 
intent is signed on or after National Signing Day on Feb. 2.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 23
Harrison Diamond / Alligator
 Four-star tight end A.C. Leonard, pictured here at the Friday Night Lights camp in The Swamp, expressed his excite-
ment about new coach Will Muschamp’s decision to retain tight ends coach Brian White on his staff.
Recruits pleased with Muschamp’s coaching staffJocelyne Sanchez / Alligator Staff24, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
UF WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
For nearly half of the Gators’ ros-
ter, Sunday’s matchup against na-
tionally ranked Arkansas was their first taste of Southeastern Confer -
ence basketball.
So far, so good.The Gators (11-4, 1-0 SEC) used 
stingy defense and a balanced scor -
ing effort, led by Deana Allen’s 12 points off the bench, to secure a 64-53 victory over previously undefeat-ed No. 22 Arkansas (12-1, 0-1 SEC) on Sunday in the O’Connell Center.
For the 13th time this season, 
the Gators outrebounded their op-ponent (45-38), and Arkansas coach Tom Collen lauded Florida’s efforts 
afterward.
“We felt all along that the differ -
ence in the game would be whether 
we could keep them off the boards,” Collen said.  “Give Florida credit. You look back at the games that they’ve played, and they have lost to two top-25 teams by two points. If they beat those teams — and both 
of those games were on those teams’ 
home courts — they are ranked 20th in the country.
“So, I think this is a pretty good 
basketball team that we got beat by today.”
While rebounding was para-
mount, Florida’s defense may have been the real catalyst to victory . The Gators forced 15 turnovers, 
grabbed nine steals and held the Ra-zorbacks to a season-low 31.7 shoot-ing percentage.  Arkansas missed its first four shots from the field, help-ing Florida jump out to an early 8-2 lead. 
“We were really trying to set the 
tone coming out of the gate, and we did a really good job of that in the 
first half,” coach Amanda Butler 
said. 
The Gators entered the break up 
38-22, but Arkansas began to claw its way back into the game in the second half. 
Twice the Razorbacks cut the 
deficit to single digits with less than five minutes remaining and tried to press the Gators into mistakes. 
But Florida was able to hold on 
despite shaky shooting at the free-throw line.
“I’m especially proud of the de-
fensive effort, because there is no question that that is what sustained it,” Butler said. “We had some blips with some missed layups, some missed free throws and some key 
offensive plays, but our defense sus-
tained us during those times.
“This win was really important 
for our confidence, but also we wanted to send that message that this is a tough place to play.”
Winning at home hasn’t been a 
problem. The Gators are 8-0 in the comfort of the O’Connell Center, but now must go on the road to face 
Auburn and try to secure their first 
true road win of the season. 
In Auburn’s last game, senior for -
ward Jordan Greenleaf led the team with 19 points and helped the Tigers (8-6) go on the road and earn a 66-55 win against a talented Crimson Tide squad. 
Now, the Gators are faced with a 
similar challenge. 
“I’m just excited, I’m ready for 
the next game, Auburn,” junior guard Lanita Hartley said following Monday’s victory over Arkansas. “We need to go out and get a road win because we haven’t gotten one yet, so I’m just determined to help my team win.”
Gators look to continue hot start to conference play
UF at Hampton
L (54-69)
As finals approached, the Gators 
went on the road to Hampton, Va., in search of their first road victory. In the end, they left empty handed. The Pirates dominated the second half 42-22 and had the edge over Florida in rebounding, points in the 
paint, steals and turnovers. The 
Pirates had four players score 14 points or more and remain the only team to outrebound the Gators this season.UF at No. 25 FSU  
L (72-74)UF vs. No. 22 Arkansas W 
(64-53)
UF vs. Alabama State  
W (95-38)UF vs. Robert Morris
W (70-50)
With team captain and leading 
scorer Jordan Jones out with a concussion, freshman guard Brit -
tany Shine received her first ca -
reer start against ASU and made the most of it. Shine dropped 
28 points on 11-of-23 shooting, 
including 4-of-9 from distance, and led the Gators to a 47-point victory over the visiting Hornets. Jennifer George blocked nine shots, and UF held ASU to just 17 second-half points. They also forced 30 turnovers in the lopsided win.The following day, Florida de -
feated Robert Morris handily in the championship game of the Gators’ annual tournament. Shine again led the team in scoring with 19 points and was named tourna -
ment MVP. The backcourt duo of Lanita Bartley and Jaterra Bonds combined for 25 points as Florida captured its second tournament title of the season. Bonds was named to the All-Tournament team with a combined 26 points, 12 assists and seven rebounds.Gator Holiday ClassicWomen’s Basketball Games Over Winter Break...
12.10.1012.20.10 12.21.1012.28.10 01.02.11
The Gators had their holiday 
spirits crushed against rival FSU when the referees denied coach Amanda Butler’s pleas for a timeout in the waning seconds. 
Instead, the Seminoles caused 
a turnover and proceeded to put the game away. FSU’s Court-ney Ward torched Florida for 20 points and was at the line for the final dagger. The last-second defeat was eerily similar to the one suffered against DePaul in the semifinals of the WNIT and 
left a bitter taste in the mouths of 
the Gators.Fresh off the defeat to the Seminoles, Florida welcomed Arkansas to the O’Connell Center for the opening of Southeastern Conference play. 
It wasn’t much of a welcome as 
the Gators attacking style and shutdown defense handed the Razorbacks their first loss of the season. Florida used a vari -
ety of scoring options through -
out and held a double-digit lead for the majority of the game.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 25
RECRUITING
By TOM GREEN
Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
 
LAKE BUENA VISTA — Florida coach 
Will Muschamp may have retained Stan 
Drayton as the Gators’ recruiting coordina-tor, but at this week’s Under Armour All-
America events, UF commits Jeff Driskel 
and A.C. Leonard have been coordinating some recruiting of their own.
The two four-star prospects, according 
to Rivals.com, are enrolling at UF for the Spring semester and working on swaying a handful of players to come join them.
After Monday’s practice, Driskel said 
he’s been working on convincing Tampa 
Alonso four-star defensive end Anthony 
Chickillo to commit to UF. Chickillo is cur -
rently orally committed to Miami, but that hasn’t stopped Driskel, or Muschamp for that matter, from pursuing him.
“Coach Muschamp came to my house 
the day after he got the job, and that meant a lot to me,” Chickillo said. “He told me out of everybody he’s judged, I’m the No. 1 guy 
he wants.”
Leonard, who is ranked as the nation’s 
No. 5 tight end by Rivals.com, likes the Gators’ chances of landing Chickillo.
“I think he’s going to be our next com-
mit,” Leonard said. “He said he liked (UF), 
so we’ve just been working on him. He’s a competitor — he’s great, strong, physical and fast.”
Along with Chickillo, who will visit UF 
on Friday, Driskel said he’s been trying to get four-star safety Jabari Gorman of Miami 
Monsignor Pace High and four-star corner -
back Marcus Roberson from Fort Lauder -
dale St. Thomas Aquinas.
“Jeff has been recruiting me for almost 
two months,” Gorman said. “Jeff’s my guy, 
though. Me and him have been friends. But whether I go to Florida or not, we’re still go-ing to be friends.”
Gorman said he will announce his deci-
sion during the Under Armour All-America game on ESPN. It’s down to Florida, Miami and Ohio State for the No. 10 safety in the class of 2011.
As for Roberson, Florida and Auburn 
are the leaders for his services, though no decision is imminent for the nation’s No. 2 cornerback.
“It’s important to me, but it’s important 
to the team, in general,” Driskel said of try-ing to get more recruits to UF. “[You] got to have big-time players and those are some big-time guys, so we’d all love to have them aboard.”
Story, HounSHell wavering:  Despite 
still being committed to Florida, two 
recruits are weighing their options before National Signing Day.
Brooksville Nature Coast High four-star 
wide receiver Ja’Juan Story, an Under Ar -
mour All-American, is very interested in 
Oregon after taking a visit to the campus last month. Though he has yet to receive an offer from the Ducks, he said he talks to the coaches all the time.
“Oregon is real nice, though,” Story said. 
“Everything is top quality — the fans, the coaches and Eugene itself.”
Three-star Kirtland (Ohio) Lake Catholic 
High offensive lineman Chase Hounshell is also having second thoughts after the coach-ing changes at Florida. Hounshell originally planned to enroll at UF this month as an early enrollee, but posted Monday on Twit-ter that he didn’t want to rush the decision.
Hounshell, one of three offensive line-
men orally committed to UF, is also consid-ering an offer from Notre Dame.Driskel trying to recruit other prospects
Jocelyne Sanchez / Alligator StaffJeff Driskel  QB. Oviedo Hagerty High. 6’3”, 225 lbs. 
Four-star QB. No. 1 pro-style passer (No.1 overall QB in 
class of 2011). Early enrollee.
A.C. Leonard  TE. Jacksonville University Christian High. 
6’2”, 232 lbs. Four-star TE. No. 5 tight end in the nation, 
No. 49 overall recruit in the class of 2011. Early enrollee.
Ja’Juan Story   WR. Brooksville Nature Coast High. 6’3”, 
190 lbs. Four-star WR. No. 26 wide receiver in the nation.
De’Ante “Pop” Saunders  S. Deland High. 6’0”, 180 
pounds. Three-star S. No. 23 defensive back in the class 
of 2011. Early enrollee.
Anthony Chickillo  DE. Tampa Alonso High. 6’3”, 226 lbs. 
Four-star DE. Committed to Miami.
Jabari Gorman  S. Miami Monsignor Pace High. 5’11”, 
170 lbs. Four-star S. Also considering: Miami, Ohio State.
Marcus Roberson  CB. Ft. Lauderdale St. Thomas 
Aquinas. 6’1”, 170 lbs. Four-star CB. Also considering: 
Auburn, Texas Tech, Georgia, USC.
Hasean Clinton-Dix  S. Orlando Dr. Phillips High. 6’2”, 
190 lbs. Five-star S. No. 1 safety in the class of 2011. 
Committed to Alabama.
Stephone Anthony  OLB. Wadesboro (N.C.) Anson High. 
6’3”, 220 lbs. Four-star OLB. Also considering: VT, UNC, 
Clemson, NC State, Georgia.
Robenson, Therezie  S. Miami Jackson High. 5’10”, 180 
lbs. Four-star S. Also considering: Auburn, Alabama, 
Tennessee.
Quan Bray  ATH. LaGrange (Ga.) Troupe High. 5’11”, 178 
lbs. Four-star ATH. Also considering: Georgia, Alabama, 
Auburn.Under Armour All-America Game
UF  Commits
UF  Targets26, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
Oh, and former Florida football coach Urban Meyer (weird, 
right?) was so ﬁ  red up about his job that he yelled in a re-
porter’s face.
  Having said that, we here at alligatorSports aren’t con-
tent to just sit back in our rocking chairs and talk about the good old days. 
Is that the kind of attitude “Coach Boom” would bring to 
the table? I think not. 
Pro-style offense? Pro-style newspaper.  We will ramp up the in-depth, all-around Gators sports 
coverage that you’re familiar with by now, but we are also going to revitalize some old Alligator staples and create a few new traditions as well.
VIDEO KILLED THE RADIO STAR:  We simply don’t have the 
staff or means to provide daily updates and footage like 
some other outlets do. And most of our writers have faces and voices made for print media, anyway. (I’m kidding. Love you guys.)
  But we’ve got the manpower and moxie to bring you a 
short, weekly, as-of-yet-unnamed video show with high-lights, interviews and analysis. Keep an eye on alligator-
Sports.org in the coming weeks.
  ON YOUR RADIO:  Speaking of our multimedia endeavors, it’s 
no secret that the critically-acclaimed-but-generally-over-
looked alligatorSports Podcast fell on hard times last semes-
ter. But not this spring. I created the podcast two years ago, and I won’t stand to see it go to waste.
  You will be able to hear Gators news and analysis from 
our mouths to your ears at least once a week, hopefully 
twice, from now until you begin your summer vacations, 
and the show will be a return to the witty banter and insight-ful, honest analysis of yesteryear. So, ﬁ  re up your iTunes or 
RSS readers, look us up and subscribe now.
  DOLLA DOLLA BILL, Y’ALL:  We’ve seen enough people lose 
their minds over the margins of victory in mid-December 
low-major basketball games to conﬁ  rm that, indeed, college 
students gamble on sports. While we’re absolutely not con-
doning that behavior, we would like to provide a relevant 
perspective on the issue.
  Fortunately, we have just the man for the job. Bill 
O’Connor will be looking into the culture of gambling, spe-
ciﬁ  cally related to sports, in a whenever-we-feel-like-it col-umn throughout the semester. I’ll let Bill explain why his thoughts are worth taking note of, but trust me: He’s prob-
ably the most interesting person I’ve ever spoken to, and 
you’re going to want to read what he writes.
  DON’T SHOOT THE MESSENGER:  As far as what you’re read-
ing – or skimming over – right now, there is one important 
thing I want to get across before the semester begins so I can 
point to this when we inevitably have to repeatedly explain 
it later. 
  We will be unbiased. That’s part of our job description as 
reporters. We’re not Florida fans or cheerleaders, nor do we burn Gators ﬂ  ags and jerseys outside our ofﬁ  ce at 1 a.m. ev-
ery night after we ﬁ  nish working. We don’t have an agenda, 
despite what you probably think and are led to believe by 
certain people who act as if the media is out to “get” them. 
  SPEAK FOR YOURSELF: Do you love us? Do you hate us? Are 
you completely indifferent to our continued existence? No 
matter what your answer is, we want to hear it from you. 
  Comment on our stories. Hit us up via e-mail at sports@
alligator.org or podcast@alligator.org, and you can ﬁ  nd us on Twitter (@alligatorSports) or on our podcast’s Facebook 
fan page. ADAM , from page 22Driskel, Leonard, Story establishing chemistry on and off the ﬁ  eld
they plan on doing it for the next 
few years.
  Driskel feels the same way 
about Leonard and Story, a four-star receiver from Brooksville Nature Coast High, as all three are on the Click-Clack (red) ros-
ter. 
  “I’m not saying I’m favoring 
them, but I’m giving them a good look,” Driskel said. 
  The four-star quarterback said 
the trio has already built some 
chemistry on the ﬁ  eld after just a few days of practicing at the 
ESPN Wide World of Sports com-
plex. 
And even though it’s their ﬁ  rst 
chance to play together, Driskel 
likes what he has seen so far from 
his two receiving targets at prac-tice.
  “I just throw it up to Ja’Juan and he’s going to go get it,” Driskel said. “A.C. is a freak out there. He can power his way 
open, and he can make someone 
miss and he’ll 
go up and grab it. I trust both of them a lot.”
  Saunders, the lone UF commit 
on the defensive side of the ball who is an Under-Armour All-American, is still using the time off the ﬁ  eld to get to know his fu-ture teammates, despite being on the Micro G (white) team.
  Driskel said during their week 
at Disney, the players have had a 
chance to check out some of the 
theme parks on site, including a trip to MGM Studios, where they went on the Tower of Terror 
ride. 
According to Driskel, some of 
the athletes backed out of going 
on the ride at the last second, but none of the UF commits.
  “Florida Gators ain’t scared,” 
he said.
  Driskel, along with Saunders 
and Leonard are all set to enroll 
early at UF once this week’s All-
American festivities are over. Leonard said all three will be roommates this semester. 
  Oral commitments are non-
binding until a national letter of intent is signed on or after National Signing Day on Feb. 2. 
RECRUIT , from page 22
RecruitingMurphy doubtful, Yeguete’s status unknown as SEC opener approaches
the Rams based on the team’s track 
record.
  But instead, the Gators respond-
ed with a performance that many 
of the players have ranked among 
the season’s best outings.
  “I think we learned from ear-
lier,” Parsons said. “We had a dif-ferent mindset coming in here.”
  So, what kept the Gators from 
repeating their mistakes?
  “The biggest thing is we just 
can’t be satisﬁ  ed,” Parsons said. “I think it showed the maturity of our team that we had the mindset going in that we had to shut them 
down.”
  That shift in approach started 
the moment the Xavier game end-
ed. 
  Instead of taking time to relish 
what they had accomplished, the Gators immediately set their sights on the next obstacle. 
  “On the bus coming from the 
Xavier game, [coach Billy Dono-van] was like, ‘We’ve had two slip-ups against UCF and Jacksonville after two big wins,’” freshman Pat-ric Young said. “He’s like, ‘We’re 
not going to let that happen again.’ 
The day after that game, of course we had a hard practice, just to let us have a mindset that we’re not 
going to take these guys lightly.”
  In getting the win over Rhode 
Island, the Gators built up an even 
greater level of success that now needs to be dealt with.   But, if the team’s post-game 
comments are any indication, stay-ing hungry and focused will not be 
an issue this time around. 
  “Now, you go back to the lab,” 
Parsons said. “You go back, prac-
tice tomorrow, watch the ﬁ  lm of what you have to do, clean up 
some things and look forward to 
Ole Miss. It’s a crazy season, it’s long, and in the SEC, you can’t take any games off.”
INJURY UPDATE: Florida’s prepa-
ration for Rhode Island was ham-pered by injuries to Parsons’ ankle, 
Erving Walker’s hip pointer, Ver-
non Macklin’s strained shoulder, 
Casey Prather’s 
bruised knee and Erik Murphy’s 
foot sprain. While 
the ﬁ  rst four all 
played Monday and are expected to be ﬁ  ne for Sat-
urday’s game, 
Murphy remains doubtful. 
  Freshman Will Yeguete added 
his name to the injury list Monday 
when he took a knee to the midsec-
tion while attempting to draw a charge. 
  “We tried to put him back in, 
and he was having pain in his hip 
ﬂ  exor/groin area,” Donovan said. 
“I don’t know to what extent or what degree the injury is or how long he’ll be out, but he was in 
enough pain that he didn’t feel like 
he could go.” HOOPS , from page 22
Alexander Silva / Alligator StaffDonovan
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 27
28, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
Meyer gets ﬁ  tting farewell with victory, but UF still struggles offensively
  But that national title, one of two 
in Meyer’s six-year career at Flori-
da, turned out to be a peak preced-
ing a deep valley . Black, who helped clinch the 2008 championship with his fourth quarter interception of 
Heisman winner Sam Bradford, un-
derstands as well as anyone how far 
Florida (8-5) fell.
  “It’s been a long season, a rough 
season,” he said. “There have been 
a lot of ups and a lot of downs. I’m 
just glad we were able to send coach 
out on top.”
  Indeed, Meyer ended his career 
appropriately: with a win. After just 
10 seasons as a head coach, Meyer 
won his 104th game, including sev-
en bowl wins.
  After the game, Meyer and his 
family gathered arm-in-arm in front 
of the UF band to sing the alma 
mater while other coaches posed 
for photos with players. For a lot of Gators, Saturday was mostly about saying goodbye, even for those re-
turning next season.
  Goodbye to Meyer and his two 
national championship rings. Good-
bye to the familiar spread offense. Goodbye to several — if not all — 
assistant coaches.
  But even with most of the atten-
tion directed at Meyer’s farewell, the Gators coach was low key, rare-
ly commenting on his momentous 
departure. Instead, he spent most of the postgame press conference talking about the game as if it was September.
  “I’m at full peace because I saw a 
bunch of smiles in that locker room,” he said. “I know this year was not a good year; however, (those depart-ing) will leave here as one of the best group of seniors to ever play at 
Florida.”
  While Saturday’s win was an ap-
propriate ﬁ  nish for one of the most 
successful UF coaches in any sport, it also appeared at times to be a mi-
crocosm of Florida’s struggles in 
2010.
  Quarterback John Brantley was 
intercepted on Florida’s ﬁ  rst offen-
sive play of the game, redshirt fresh-
man Andre Debose botched his ﬁ  rst 
two kickoff returns before getting 
benched, freshman Trey Burton fumbled the ball one yard away from the Penn State end zone, cen-ter Mike Pouncey sailed a snap over Brantley’s head, Chas Henry was 
tackled a yard shy of the ﬁ  rst down 
marker on a fake punt and Jordan 
Reed fumbled a snap on third and 7.
  Still, the Gators won, perhaps 
mostly because the offense was 
bailed out by Nittany Lions turn-
overs. Florida intercepted Penn State quarterback Matt McGloin a season-high ﬁ  ve times, including 
two by Black, who was named the 
game’s MVP .
  Florida turned three of those 
picks into 21 points, and the UF of-fense’s average scoring drive was 
just 29.2 yards. Gators defensive end Lerentee McCray also returned 
a blocked punt for a score to give 
Florida a 14-7 lead midway through 
the second quarter.
  Looking toward next Septem-
ber, Florida has plenty of question 
marks, starting ﬁ  rst with their sig-
nal caller.
  After entering the season riding 
a wave of hype as the drop-back 
passer good enough to change the 
Gators’ offense, Brantley ﬁ  nished 
the year with 2,061 yards passing, 
nine touchdowns and 10 intercep-tions.  When he struggled in the ﬁ  rst 
half, Brantley was reduced to third-and-long cameo appearances, end-
ing the game with just 41 yards on 
13 attempts.
  At Will Muschamp’s introduc-
tory press conference on December 
14, Brantley said he had not decided 
if he would return to Gainesville for 
the 2011 season. Perhaps in his place 
will be Jordan Reed, who ﬁ  nished the game with 60 passing yards on 13 attempts and 68 rushing yards on 
24 carries.
  But Meyer said throughout the 
season he does not know where 
Reed’s future will be. And with Muschamp insisting Florida will 
run a pro-style offense, Reed seems 
like an unlikely candidate under 
center. 
  Whoever is throwing passes for 
Florida next season, the Gators will 
look much different than they have 
for the past six seasons. One year 
ago, that suggestion would have drawn the ire of Florida fans.
  But after ﬁ  nishing the season 
second in a mediocre Southeast-
ern Conference East division and 
ranked 10th in the conference with 350.8 offensive yards per game, change may bring optimism.
  If nothing else, Meyer believes 
he is leaving the program with the resources to succeed.
  “Will Muschamp is getting a good 
group of young men on a positive note,” he said. “We’ve only had one time when we had to go through an offseason after we lost a bowl game, and it’s terrible. Will Muschamp is getting a football team that’s going to have some bright eyes and is go-ing to be ready to work.” OUTBACK , from page 1
 Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
    Junior quarterback John Brantley drops back to attempt a pass in Saturday’s 37-24 Outback Bowl vic-
tory. As was the case all season, Brantley and the Gators often sputtered in the passing game.
New coaching staff brings wealth of NFL, college experience to Gainesville
quarterbacks speak for themselves.”
  Weis’ family played a role in his deci-
sion to leave the Chiefs, as he was looking 
for a place his son, Charlie Jr., could serve on staff. UF ﬁ  t the bill, as the younger Weis will 
become a student assistant for the Gators. 
The former Notre Dame coach will leave his current role as the Kansas City Chiefs’ offen-sive coordinator as soon as their playoff run comes to an end.
  “We hope the Chiefs make a run to the 
Super Bowl — it would be great for the 
Chiefs and great for the Gators,’’ Muschamp 
said. “Everyone involved with the Kansas City organization has been ﬁ  rst class about the transition.”
  Quinn also brings plenty of NFL experi-
ence to Gainesville, as he will join the Gators after serving as the defensive line coach for the playoff-bound Seattle Seahawks.
  Muschamp worked with Quinn under 
Nick Saban during their time with the Miami Dolphins. After 10 years in the NFL, Quinn 
will also coach the defensive linemen at UF.
  “He is one of the best I’ve been around in 
terms of teaching fundamentals,” Muschamp 
added. “He understands how defenses will need to be multiple and how to put players in a position to be successful.”
  In addition to Weis and Quinn, Mus-
champ added two more people to his staff Monday: Frank Verducci (offensive line/running game coordinator) and George Wynn (director of football operations), who will leave the same job at Texas to join Mus-champ.
  Verducci worked with Weis at Notre 
Dame in 2009 and has coached in college and the NFL during his 28-year career.
  “Frank will bring a sense of toughness 
and a physical style of play from our offen-
sive line,” Muschamp said. “It is important 
that the offensive line coach and offensive co-ordinator work closely together and always be on the same page. Charlie and Frank had that together at Notre Dame in 2009 and they will have a cohesive plan for the Gators.”
  Muschamp retained Stan Drayton (run-
ning backs/recruiting coordinator), D.J. Durkin (linebackers/special teams coordina-tor) and Brian White (tight ends) from Urban Meyer’s staff and hired Aubrey Hill (wide 
receivers) from Miami and Travaris Robin-
son (defensive backs) from Texas Tech.
  The newcomers aren’t at all unfamiliar 
with Florida and Muschamp. Hill played for the Gators from 1991-94 and spent the next three seasons as a graduate assistant. Robin-son, meanwhile, worked with Muschamp at Auburn in 2006-07.
  “I thought it was important to have some 
continuity in the staff – D.J., Stan and Brian bring that to the table,” Muschamp said. “They are also solid recruiters. Aubrey is ob-viously a Gator, and it’s always a plus when you have someone coach at their alma mater. He understands the passion and the expec-tations here. … (Robinson) has competed at the highest level in this sport and is a good young coach with strong ties to the South 
Florida area, which will beneﬁ  t us in recruit-
ing.’’  Muschamp had previously announced 
that he would retain Mickey Marotti, the team’s director of strength and condition-ing. He can still add on one more coach, as-sumedly a slot he will ﬁ  ll with someone on the defensive side. 
FOOTBALL , from page 1
Alexander Silva / Alligator StaffWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 29
Alligator Staff2010 Season Swamp Studs
Trey 
Burton 
Fr. Fans, you’ll always have 
Black’s Outback Bowl pick-six. For all the disappointments of the 2010 season, Black consistently shined as the defensive leader. The senior paced the team in tackles, interceptions and tweets (“@ErinAndrews hey hey..how have you been?”). At times, it looked like he was the only player willing to step up on defense. But with a 5-foot-9, 190-pound frame, his pro potential seems limited. Regardless, it will be interesting to see what he can do at the next level.
108 tackles, 11 tackles for 
a loss; 5 interceptions, 171 return yards, 1 touchdown; 2 fumble recoveries, 3 forced fumblesReed, who came to 
Gainesville in 2009 as a quarterback before switching to tight end, turned heads when he completed a 31-yard touchdown pass on his first attempt against Vanderbilt on Nov. 6. With starter John Brantley unable to move Florida’s offense this season, Reed became a viable option in the shotgun toward the end of the season. First, the Gators used him as one head in a tri-QB system. When that experiment failed miserably, Brantley was reduced mostly to third-and-long situations as Reed provided a much-needed dual threat.
26 of 46 passing, 252 
yards, 3 touchdowns, 1 interception; 77 carries, 328 yards, 5 touchdowns; 6 catches, 79 yards, 1 touchdown
TOP THREE 
Jordan 
Reed
 RS Fr.
QB/TE184.31
 
Florida coaches entered 
the season promising a 
new look to the offense 
behind pro-style passer 
John Brantley. Instead, the 
air attack took a step back, 
ranking 88th in the nation 
in passing yards per game. 
The 2009 run-heavy unit 
averaged 236.1 passing 
yards per game, good for 
41st in the nation.KEY STAT
Ahmad 
Black, 
Sr.
SS
Facing a 53-yard field goal with 35 
seconds left in a three-point game, 
LSU kicker Josh Jasper fielded a 
lateral that took a perfect hop off the ground and ran 5 yards for a first down on fourth and 3. Four 
plays later, the Tigers scored the 
game-winning touchdown and the Gators fell to 4-2.TURNING POINTQB/TE/
WR/FB
Chas Henry  missed a 42-yard field goal 
with four seconds left as Florida trailed Mississippi 
State 10-7 on Oct. 16. He also missed a 38-yarder 
in the second quarter. Henry, who won the Ray Guy Award as the nation’s best punter, was thrust into an unfamiliar role when usual kicker Caleb 
Sturgis went down with a hairline fracture in his 
vertebrae early in the year.Jeff Demps  energized a sluggish UF of-
fense with a 62-yard run, giving the Gators a 14-7 
lead against South Florida in an eventual blowout 
victory on Sept. 11. The run was Demps’ second 60-plus-yard touchdown in as many games, and the junior appeared poised for a big season. But 
he suffered a sprained right foot against the next 
week against Tennessee and was limited for the remainder of the season.
Christian Ponder  connected with 
Rodney Smith for a 39-yard touchdown as FSU 
took a 17-7 lead early in the second quarter. The 
score came one play after Henry was stopped a yard short of a first down on a fake punt. Speaking to UF students before the season started, Urban 
Meyer explained that teams only run “trick plays” 
when they don’t have the talent to compete with opponents. On Nov. 27, FSU looked to have finally 
surpassed Florida, talent-wise, as Ponder tossed 
three touchdowns and the Seminoles won 31-7, ending a six-game losing streak to the Gators. STANDINGS
Remember that time Trey 
Burton scored six touchdowns in one game? Burton didn’t live up to the “Next Tebow” hype in the ensuing weeks … because he wasn’t the next Tebow. But from the beginning of training camp, Burton emerged as one of Urban Meyer’s favorite players because of his willingness to play any position. He faded down the stretch, averaging 26.8 rushing yards and scoring just once in UF’s final five games. But he still put up one of the best freshman seasons in school history, falling two touchdowns shy of Jabar Gaffney’s Florida freshman record of 14.  
75 carries, 349 rushing yards, 
11 touchdowns; 32 catches, 210 receiving yards, 1 touchdownAhmad Black        10
Trey Burton           8 
Jordan Reed         8
Janoris Jenkins       6 
Chris Rainey         6
Andre Debose         5 
Chas Henry          5 
John Brantley          4 
Jeff Demps          4 
Omarius Hines        4
Jon Bostic          3 
Jelani Jenkins         3
Carl Moore          3 
Will Hill          2 
Duke Lemmens      2 
Jeremy Brown         1 
Robert Clark         1
Jaye Howard          1  
Deonte Thompson  1THREE KEY PLAYS
30, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
n UNDERSIZED SAFETY 
PICKS OFF TWO PASSES IN FINAL GAME WITH UF.
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Staff Writer
achiang@alligator.org
 
TAMPA — Nobody knew 
what to expect from the 5-foot-
9, 177-pound Ahmad Black 
when he arrived in Gainesville in 2007.
Four seasons later, every-
body expects the world of Black.
The strong safety delivered 
on Saturday as he was named the Outback Bowl MVP after 
intercepting two passes in his 
last game as a Gator.
“Ahmad Black was not Ah-
mad Black when we got him 
four years ago,” coach Urban 
Meyer said. “He’s turned into a grown man who will pay tax-es some day and have a family some day. 
“He’s going to be a great father and a great husband be-
cause he’s a grown man now.”
But Black’s spectacular per -
formance was almost derailed 
by one of his teammates.
The senior was forced to 
leave Saturday’s game in the 
second quarter after he dove 
for a pass across the middle and was hit by Gators line-backer Brandon Hicks in the 
process.
“I broke 
my helmet, so it came off,” Black 
said. “They were yelling at me, ‘Keep your helmet 
strapped up,’ and I was like, 
‘No, it’s broke.’ I busted my 
mouth and my nose, but I was all right.”
Black returned to the game 
shortly after and didn’t show any effects from the hit.
He led the Gators with six Black ends career 
with MVP honorsJust like that, it’s over.
The most successful era in Florida football 
has come to an end with Urban Meyer’s depar -
ture.
BOOM! (This is a lame nickname, by the way.) 
And in steps new Gators coach Will Muschamp. 
Could athletics director Jeremy Foley have 
gone farther away from Meyer’s coaching phi-
losophy with this hire? A defensive-minded coach who brings along a pro-style offense with the ad-dition of Charlie Weis, who helped build a Pa-triots offense that won three Super Bowls in the early 2000s.
At first, most believed Florida would choose 
the route that featured stability and continuity by picking a coach similar to Meyer, like Urban dis-ciple Dan Mullen. Instead, UF pulled off the unex-pected with the selection of Muschamp, who was set to take over for Mack Brown at Texas when Brown retired.
This was the smartest thing Foley could have 
done.
If you watched the Gators this season, the 
spread offense’s flaws were evident. 
It takes a particular player with a very particu-
lar skill set to make the spread go — for examples, look at the work of Percy Harvin and Tim Tebow. 
The scheme also deterred top running backs, 
wide receivers and pocket passers from Gainesville because of its gimmicky nature.
The running game suffered, and the lack of 
playmakers on this team held the offense back for most of the season. With many of those same players returning, Foley chose to avoid watching another season full of offensive ineptitude. 
It’s not like Florida football hasn’t undergone 
this drastic of a transformation before.
Following Steve Spurrier’s departure to the 
NFL, Meyer’s spread became Gainesville’s favor -ite offense to watch since Spurrier’s “Fun ‘n’ Gun” of-fense ruled the town for 12 years. We can all agree that it is appropriate to ignore Ron Zook’s short stay in be-tween.
The Spurrier-Meyer 
change is just as pro-nounced. And it will likely be just as successful.
The only problem Muschamp and Weis could 
face is that the offense’s personnel was recruited to run the spread. But if this duo is as good as adver -
tised, it will make it work just like Meyer did with only a three-loss season in between his introduc-tion speech and his first national championship.
But a quarterback is obviously critical to the 
new regime’s success. Meyer recruited Tebow, and now Muschamp must bring in a player who can run UF’s new offense. 
Uncertainty currently surrounds the position 
with Brantley pondering a transfer to another school, while Reed and Burton are made for the spread.
But this massive question mark is partly a 
blessing for a unit that ranked 74th in total offense this season. It will force Florida to bring in a new wave of signal-callers sooner rather than later.
The switch seems to signal Foley’s desire to 
move as far away from Meyer as possible. How-ever, Muschamp doesn’t have to look too far to see that isn’t the case. 
Meyer is keeping an office on campus and will 
continue to have a presence within the football program. 
But it won’t show on the field next year. Muschamp’s defensive, no-nonsense, pro-style 
approach won’t let it. Muschamp hire starts 180-degree turn
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org 
Twitter: @Chiang_Reaction
see BLACK, p AGe 31Black
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 31
Looking toward NFL, safety once again faces questions about size 
tackles and jumped in front of 
a pass late in the fourth quarter for his second pick of the game, 
returning it 80 yards for a touch-
down to seal the victory for Flor -
ida.
The crucial interception was 
his team-leading fifth of the sea-
son and the 13th in his four-year career at Florida.
“It was like a relief,” Black 
said. “They were driving down 
the field, and I’m thinking, ‘We 
need a play. We 
need a stop.’ 
“That was simi-
lar to the national c h a m p i o n s h i p game. They were 
running it down our throat and getting first downs, and we just 
had to get a stop.”
Black led the Gators with 108 
tackles this season. This marked 
the first year the safety has re-
corded more than 100 tackles in 
his UF career.
Now, as a potential 2011 NFL 
Draft pick, Black must face the same questions and critics he did 
when he was being recruited out 
of Lakeland High.
Black is ranked as the eigth-best safety in the 2011 NFL Draft by ESPN.com. 
The website points to Black’s 
height, weight and speed as a drawback for selecting him. But it highlights his intangibles as 
giving him a future in the NFL — something not lost on the team-
mates who played alongside 
Black for the last four seasons at 
Florida.
“He has been talked about 
throughout his career, he has 
been talked about as being the smaller guy, the little guy, not 
weighing enough, not this tall, 
you know what I mean?” Hicks 
said. “But if somebody were to open up his chest and see how big his heart was, you’ll put him 
out there on any team.”BLACK , from page 30
FootballCAREER AT A GLANCE
2010:
108 tackles 
5 pass deflections
5 interceptions
2009:
70 tackles 
5 pass deflections
1 interception
2008:
59 tackles
5 pass deflections
7 interceptions
Won a national championship
2007:
7 tackles
0 pass deflections
0 interceptionsMatt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida senior strong safety Ahmad Black, named Outback Bowl MVP after picking off two passes and 
returning one 80 yards for a game-clinching touchdown, blocks for linebacker Brandon Hicks. 
32, ALLIGATOR n WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2011
