We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 16 THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida running 
backs coach and 
recruiting coordina -
tor Stan Drayton 
(right) reportedly 
will accept an offer 
by the weekend to 
become the wide 
receivers coach at 
Ohio State. 
See Story, Page 17.A Gainesville woman faces charges after 
her ex-boyfriend accused her of hitting him 
and throwing his mother’s ashes through a window during an argument.
Gainesville police say 22-year-old Ashley 
Renee Oxendine was retrieving her belong-ings Monday from a home where the former couple had lived. 
They got into an argument that police 
say escalated into physical violence when Oxendine scratched the man and hit him in the face.
Police say Oxendine then picked up the 
urn containing the dead woman’s ashes and threw it at a window. 
The window broke and some of the ash-
es spilled.
Oxendine was arrested and charged with 
domestic battery and criminal mischief. She was released Tuesday on her own recogni-zance. 
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSGainesville man says ex-girlfriend threw his mom’s ashes at window
Sunny
60/36FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 9
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 17page 9
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
Valerie Plame, a former CIA agent, speaks Wednesday night in the 
Reitz Union about having her cover blown five years ago.
n THE EX-CIA AGENT SUED DICK 
CHENEY OVER HER IDENTITY LEAK.
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
Valerie Plame Wilson said she may not be 
the image of what many would consider to be a CIA agent. 
“I left my sequin gown with the thigh-high 
slit back home,” she said.
Wilson, the infamously outed CIA covert 
operations agent, spoke to an audience of more than 400 Wednesday night in the Reitz Union about her life jumping out of planes and making 
sure “the bad guys” didn’t get their hands on 
weapons of mass destruction. 
“This is a story of power and the abuse of 
power,” she said. “It’s also the story of the price 
of speaking the truth.”
She said she felt the need to tell her whole 
story because most people in the audience were in the fifth grade when it was going on.
Not many can throw around titles like mom, 
writer and former CIA agent in the same sen-
tence.
Wilson is one of them, but not by choice.
On July 14, 2003, her husband, former U.S.  
Ambassador Joseph Wilson, threw the news-paper on their bed and said “the SOB did it.” Wilson’s identity had been disclosed by colum-nist Robert Novak in a reaction piece to her hus-band’s column on the misinformation on enter -
ing the war in Iraq.
“The moment she knew it was over, it was 
touching,” said John Parks, a Gainesville resi-dent.
Parks said he enjoyed the talk very much 
and that he had seen her husband speak at UF in 2003.  
Wilson described the days following the leak Plame discusses being outed
By CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
In most cases, an early birthday present in excess of $50,000 
seems fitting for  professional athletes, royalty or MTV “My 
Super Sweet 16” princesses.
For Student Body President Ashton Charles, it represents a 
job well done. 
Charles, who celebrated her birthday Wednesday , was 
overjoyed to receive word earlier this week that Gators United for Haiti, an organization she helped organize, surpassed its goal of raising $50,000 for earthquake relief efforts. 
“It’s just a phenomenal feeling to know that our goal has 
officially been met,” Charles said.
Since forming last January , the organization has raised 
$51,811.47, according to Gators United for Haiti President Sky Georges. When combined with the amount added by the Uni-versity Athletic Association, the total stands at $92,634.20.
Even with the money in hand, both Charles and Georges 
reiterated they would not allow the group to become compla-cent. Later this week, the group will meet to discuss future ef-forts.
While Georges was uncertain as to what those exact plans 
will be, he hinted Gators United for Haiti may “switch gears,” which, as Charles described, could involve more organized drives for medical and school supplies.
“There’s still so much more to be done,” Georges said. “But 
it’s still a great feeling.”Gators United for Haiti meets $50,000 target
“It’s just a phenomenal feeling to know that 
our goal has officially been met.”
Ashton Charles
Student Body PresidentUF PROJECTSBY KELLEY DAVIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF chapter of Students for a Democratic 
Society, a group of student activists, has submit-
ted a petition to add a question about the imple-mentation of block tuition on the Student Gov-ernment election ballot.
According to the SG election codes, signa-
tures from at least 2 percent of the student body is enough to put a question on the ballot. 
Dave Schneider, an organizer for the group 
and Progress Party candidate for Student Body president, turned in a petition with 1,511 student signatures to the SG office Tues-day morning. Up to this point, 
students haven’t been consulted at all by the ad-ministration, he said. 
In December, the UF Board of Trustees ap-
proved the proposal for block tuition, setting the implementation date for fall 2012. If  it is ap-plied, UF will charge all full-time undergradu-ate students a flat tuition rate for 15 credit hours, regardless of how many they take.
Now the proposal will move to the Florida 
Board of Governors, which will meet in Febru-ary to vote. It is expected to approve the propos-al, Schneider said.
Because block tuition is delayed, he said, 
there is a lot of time left for either the UF Board of Trustees or the Florida Board of Governors to Block tuition 
may appear 
on SG ballot
SEE PLAME, PA gE 8SEE TUITION, PA gE 8UFProjectsNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 16 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Learn to cook European style
Today, 6 p.m.Take Away Gourmet, 3345 SW 34th St.Sign up today at www.take-awaygourmet4u.com for a Turkish cooking class this Thursday. The $25 cost covers everything, including a cook-book. Class size is 10 people. Call the Center for European Studies at 392-8902, or go to www.ces.ufl.edu/outreach.
Israel Goes Green: Israel’s 
Leadership in Green Technology
Today, 7 p.m. Reitz Union, Matthew’s Suite 
Paul Hirschson, the deputy 
consul general of the Israeli Consulate General to Florida 
and Puerto Rico, will discuss 
Israeli innovation and leader -
ship in green technology and 
sustainable living. He also 
will discuss the unique envi-ronmental challenges Israel 
confronts.“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. 
CLARIFICATION
As Mayor Craig Lowe stated 
in his state of the city address Wednesday, the city budget for the 2011-12 fiscal year faces an $8.3 million shortfall. The budget will be balanced, however, as the City of Gainesville is not legally allowed to operate in a deficit.Study Abroad Info Session 
Today, 4 p.m.Stuzin Hall Room 200There will be an informa-tion session highlighting the UF in London, Rome, Paris and Madrid study abroad programs offered every se-mester. All UF students and majors are welcome. Contact 
Lucy DiLeo at 352-273-0165 
to schedule an appointment if you cannot attend.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to ebehrman@alliga-tor.org. Please model your 
submissions after above 
events. Improperly formatted 
SUNNY
60/36SUNNY
65/40SUNNY
67/41PARTLY
CLOUDY
68/44PARTLY
CLOUDY
69/46MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
n THOMAS HAWKINS IS RUNNING AGAINST FOUR 
CHALLENGERS FOR HIS AT-LARGE SEAT.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
City Commissioner Thomas Hawkins wants to be your 
representative for another three years. 
Hawkins officially filed his qualifying papers at the Ala-
chua County Supervisor of Elections office Wednesday, guar -
anteeing himself a spot on the ballot. 
Hawkins, who is a UF alumnus, was first elected to the 
Gainesville City Commission in 2008.
He raised $7,530.23 in contributions during the fourth 
quarter of 2010, which ran from October to December. He will 
take on former mayoral candidates Don Marsh and Richard 
Selwach along with Dikassa Dixon and Jeffrey Fiedler.
With less than 60 days before the election, he and his cam-
paign team are focusing on getting his message out to voters.
Hawkins thanked about 20 people who gathered outside 
the supervisor of elections office to congratulate him on quali-
fying for the race. Donning pins emblazoned with the letter 
“H,” they applauded him as he walked out of the office as an 
official candidate. 
“This can be kind of a ministerial, democratic process, so 
I’m glad you guys came,” he told them.
He told the crowd his focus is providing solutions that will 
support a long-term future for Gainesville and its residents.
Growth management must be both encouraged and reg-
ulated, with zoning rules that are clear and objectively en-forced, Hawkins said in a later interview. 
Hawkins has a law degree and experience in land-use law, 
so he is very knowledgeable about growth issues, campaign manager Laurel Nesbit said. 
“Land-use law affects everything we do in the city of 
Gainesville,” she said. “I don’t know anybody who is more familiar with that than Thomas.”
Public transportation is another issue important to Hawk-
ins. He believes the city has underinvested in such transporta-tion, which is a vital service for residents.
“If we didn’t have that transit system, the city would stop,” he said.
The bus system also removes some of the pressure to build 
developments on the outskirts of the Gainesville by provid-ing reliable citywide transportation residents can depend on, he said.
Morgan Watkins / Alligator
City Commissioner Thomas Hawkins addresses a group of supporters outside the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections 
building Wednesday. Hawkins filed his qualifying papers, guaranteeing him a spot on the ballot in the March elections.
City Commissioner kicks off re-election campaignBy SHELBY GREENE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Choosing a drink to complement 
your lunch just got a lot harder at Fire-
house Subs.
The chain installed the Coca-Cola 
Freestyle in both Gainesville locations 
Tuesday.
The drink machine features more 
than 100 flavors of Coke products, in-cluding sodas, flavored waters, sports drinks and lemonades. It also has a large selection of low-calorie and no-
calorie drinks, as well as flavors that 
have never been marketed in the Unit-ed States.
The dispenser mixes concentrated 
ingredients with water and sweetener 
inside the machine. Customers use a 
touch screen to choose the beverage flavor they would like dispensed into their cups.
Each push of a button on the screen 
releases a splash of liquid, allowing for customers to mix whatever flavors they like.
Firehouse Subs is the first to bring 
the machines to Gainesville, said Cec-ily Sorensen, director of communica -
tions for the restaurant chain.  
She said the chain was a part of the 
first beta test with Coca-Cola Co., be-ginning in Atlanta in September 2009. 
Before the test, 68 percent of cus-
tomers bought a drink with their meals, while 75 percent bought one after it, Sorensen said.
Clark Coleman, manager of the 
Firehouse Subs on West University Av-enue, said he hopes the machines will be even more successful in Gainesville than in Atlanta.
“In a college town, students are tech 
savvy, and this machine is pretty much like a giant iPad,” Coleman said. 
He said the restaurant has a lease 
for the machines for one year. During that time, the success of the machine will be monitored to see if the lease will be renewed.
The machines are equipped with a 
feature that sends data to Coca-Cola Co. about which drinks are popular among customers.
 He said they already have begun 
experimenting with mixing flavors, and a popular choice has been to blend vanilla Coke and orange Fanta.
Marissa Mullins, a UF junior, de-
cided to stop by Firehouse on Tuesday 
to eat lunch. She said she typically 
sticks with original Coke when she has to choose a flavor of soda.
This time, Mullins went with peach 
Fanta.4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
A Coca-Cola Freestyle machine, which is capable of producing more than 100 flavors of Coke 
products, stands inside Firehouse Subs on West University Avenue.
LOCAL
Firehouse Subs’ Coke machine gives wealth of options
 THE SURVEY DIRECTOR ISN’T SURE THE 
INCREASE WILL LAST.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
Floridians’ consumer confidence appears to be on the rise, 
but don’t make plans to cash in on the improving economy just 
yet. 
Florida’s level of consumer confidence increased by 7 points 
in January , according to a survey by the UF Survey Research 
Center in the Bureau of Economic Business and Research. 
It jumped to 77 points this month, compared to a score of 70 
in December. It’s the highest survey number since April.
While the increase was unexpected, it may not be indicative 
of a major shift in consumer confidence levels, said Chris Mc-
Carty , survey director for the UF Survey Research Center. “You don’t want to make a whole lot of decisions when it 
swings this quickly based on one month,” McCarty said. “I sus-pect we’re going to look back at it, and it will be an anomaly.” 
For example, confidence was at a high in April, but quickly 
dropped after the BP oil spill occurred. 
The confidence increase in Florida was mirrored by a na-
tionwide increase reported by the Conference Board Consumer 
Confidence Index. In the U.S., the index jumped from 53.3 in December to 60.6 this month. 
Factors in the confidence increase may in-
clude a healthy U.S. stock market and media 
reports providing a positive outlook on the future of the coun-try’s economy and unemployment rate, he said. 
While McCarty isn’t convinced the state or country will 
dramatically decrease unemployment rates for at least the next year or two, some believe improvement is just around the cor -
ner. 
To truly improve the unemployment problem, at least 6 percent of the unemployment rate in Florida needs to be elimi-nated, McCarty said. He doesn’t expect that to be achieved for at least another couple years.
But expectations for corporations to begin creating new jobs 
soon may have contributed to the spike in consumer confi-dence, he said.
McCarty expects federal budget cuts and Gov . Rick Scott’s 
announcement of his budget plan to affect consumer confi-dence levels. Whether Florida’s consumer confidence will con-
tinue to increase will probably remain uncertain until Febru-
ary’s survey is completed, he said. 
Cleber Correa, finance chair of Delta Sigma Pi, a profes-
sional business-focused fraternity at UF, believes the January survey results are the beginning of a more long-term upswing in consumer confidence in Florida and the nation. 
If unemployment numbers decline and the stock market 
continues to do well, consumers should grow more confident in the economy over the next several months, he said.State consumer confidence level rises dramatically  
NewsStaten POLICE SAY HE 
ROLLED ON TOP OF THE BABY IN HIS SLEEP.
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer 
A man already on proba-
tion for child neglect was ar -
rested by Gainesville Police 
on Wednesday on a charge of killing his baby by rolling onto him in his sleep.
Anthony Enclarde, 23, told 
police the baby was in good health when he got him back from a stay at his mother’s house Jan. 10. He put the baby 
in his bed around 7 p.m., ac-
cording to the GPD report. At about 3 a.m., Enclarde joined his baby and fell sleep. 
When he awoke the next 
morning, Enclarde found that his arm and part of his body had rolled on top of the infant. The report stated that when Enclarde moved, the child re-leased one breath and then failed to respond.
Enclarde said he tried giv-
ing the baby CPR. 
Alachua County Fire Rescue 
and Gainesville Fire Rescue ar -
rived at 11:37 a.m. and found the baby in apparent cardiac arrest, the report stated.
The baby was taken to 
Shands at UF where he eventu-
ally was pronounced dead Jan. 
12.
After being 
read his rights, Enclarde said he 
had been warned about the 
dangers of sleeping with his baby when it was born.
He is facing charges of felo-
ny manslaughter and is already serving probation for child ne-glect concerning another child in South Carolina.THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Cultural Conversation
Criminology major Jillian Flagler, right, talks with Ja’Net Glover, senior assistant director at the Ca-
reer Resource Center, at the Institute of Black Culture’s “Conversations with Black Faculty and Staff” event on Wednesday evening.
ON CAMPUS
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
The College of Journalism and Communications is no 
stranger to deadlines. 
The college has until Feb. 1 to meet its deadline to use a 
$400,000 grant for designing an additional newsroom for 
Weimer Hall. If it does not meet the deadline, the money will 
be turned back over to the state. The college would get to keep 
the other $4 million in state funding to finish contruction.
However, the college expects to meet the deadline and is 
in negotiations with a firm to design the project, said Randy Wright, executive director of the division of multimedia prop-erties at UF.
The addition will be a “convergence” newsroom, built to 
provide an environment in which students can dabble in vari-ous forms of media including television, radio, print and Web.“This is really geared toward providing students with a cut-
ting-edge, real-life experience and positioning them for what they’re going to face when they get out,” said Larry Dankner, the WUFT director of programming for the division. 
The college will begin looking into existing newsrooms that 
operate with the same premise, trying to identify what works and what doesn’t so its version will run smoothly from the get-go, Dankner said. 
“We don’t have to re-invent the wheel,” he said.The addition will cost about $4 million to build and fur -
nish. 
The plan is to add a second story to the annexation made 
to Weimer Hall in the early 2000s, Wright said. He expects the  construction will begin summer 2011 and finish in 2012.Weimer Hall to get $4.4 million newsroom addition
Father charged 
with killing baby
NewsLocal“This is really geared toward providing students 
with a cutting-edge, real-life experience and 
positioning them for what they’re going to face 
when they get out.”
Larry Dankner
WUFT directorThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
89% YES
11% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Is 100 flavors 
of soda in one machine excessive?Wednesday’s question: Did you watch the State of the Union address?
90 TOTAL VOTESCode Red
US phases out 
terror alert system
Don’t get us wrong, we love orange. Supposedly, we 
bleed it. 
We’re surrounded by it at every UF-themed 
event we go to and store we visit. 
But we hated seeing it used in the enigmatic system of 
color-coded terrorism warnings.
We’ve been stuck at the orange — or “high risk of ter -
rorist attacks” — level for six years.
And we still don’t have a clue what it means. So we’re 
happy to hear the Department of Homeland Security is phasing out the color code.
The system was designed to be intelligible to normal 
Americans but fell short of this goal since its inception a decade ago. As Rep. Bennie Thompson said, “Each and ev-ery time the threat level was raised, very rarely did the public know the reason, how to proceed or for how long 
to be on alert.”
By ditching the system, the department acknowledg-
es the public’s need for information. Knowing only that 
we’re threatened doesn’t make us spring into action — it confuses and paralyzes us. Worse yet, using a code that 
looks like a band of concerned kindergarteners designed 
it made some of us apathetic to the government issuing warnings about possible attacks.
The vagueness didn’t help either.
As in any conversation, the best way to inform someone 
is to tell him or her the facts as an adult. To that end, we 
say good riddance to the system. 
Maybe now we can have our colors back.
What’s Your Beef?
Suppose you’re a hun-
gry student speed-walking across cam-
pus, looking for something to shove down your gul-
let while you rush to your 
next class. If you’re low on dough, you might be stuck eating food from the intesti-nal house of horrors known as Taco Bell.
No one eats there for 
quality, and we’ve long suspected their “meat” to 
be some concoction of cow 
and grease-trap leftovers. We wouldn’t have consid-ered taking the company to court over the accuracy of the “seasoned ground beef” label they give their weird runny meat sauce. 
But someone did.
An Alabama law firm is 
slapping the company with 
a class-action lawsuit to get the company to admit the amount of beef used in its tacos doesn’t meet the USDA requirements to be labeled as “beef.” The at-torneys even had the mix-ture tested, and the results showed it contained less 
than 35 percent beef. What’s 
the other 65 percent? Bind-ers and anti-dusting agents to start with.
However strange the in-
gredient list turns out to be, and no matter whether the chain has to legally start calling their ground beef 
“taco meat filling,” the fact 
remains the company will stay in business.
It has an established cli-
entele among people who don’t care about the qual-ity of what they’re eating. They’re already pronounc-ing fake words and plac-
ing an order with a prissy 
eye-rolling worker who will almost certainly spit in their food. They are the risk-tak-ers of society, living life in the fast-food lane. Every American wants to “win the future”
Hours before President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address, the National Assessment of Edu-cational Progress published an assessment of sci-
ence proficiency among the country’s fourth-, eighth- and twelfth-graders. The results were disconcerting: Only 34 
percent of the fourth-graders, 30 percent of the eighth-grad-
ers and 21 percent of the 12th-graders studied qualified as proficient. This might be the “Sputnik moment” the presi-dent described in his speech that night. 
Obama’s address acknowledged the state of education 
in the country along with other issues. The president chart-ed a bipartisan approach, which managed to be reassuring. He said we have gone through some trying times, but we can overcome them through innovation and investments in 
research.
This message resonated with both sides of the aisle. 
Disagreements arise because each party wants to foster 
economic growth. Republicans believe innovation leads to job growth when the government is not “in the way.” The president and Democrats believe innovation leads to job growth when the government aids in creating a favorable environment by investing in research and development. 
President Obama pointed out that technological advanc-
es such as computer chips and GPS came about thanks to government spending on research and development. Re-publicans want to slash funding, especially in the area of research, which would be detrimental to economic growth because about 57 percent of funding for basic research ul-timately comes from the federal government, according to the National Science Foundation. More importantly, a 2002 study published by the American Economic Review attrib-uted increases in the level of government funded research 
accounted for close to 50 percent of the US economic growth 
from 1950 to 1993. 
It’s obvious  the president was correct when he said cut-
ting investments in research would be like lightening an overloaded plane by removing its engine.Another talking point in the 
president’s plan to win the future is by focusing on education with his “Race to the Top” plan. His 
plan calls for a comprehensive approach to the educational 
system. It starts with parents becoming more proactive in 
their children’s lives, preparing better teachers and giving tuition tax credit to make college affordable. The Republi-cans should be pleased with the president’s plan. His line regarding preparing better teachers alludes to merit-based salaries for them, a Republican talking point which puts him at odds with teacher unions. For the progressives in the party, he made a pitch for the Dream Act.
President Obama’s last goal is to rebuild our country’s 
deteriorating infrastructure. It’s a threat to our economic growth and makes us vulnerable to terrorist attacks. In 2005, America’s civil engineers rated the nation’s infra-structure as a D. Although a third of the stimulus package went to infrastructural projects, a solution is needed that connects us virtually as well as physically by adding high speed rail and updating our electrical grid. These proposals are ridiculed by Republicans as unnecessary when they are exactly the investments that established China as a global 
power and gave it an edge over India. By the end of the 
year, the Chinese will spend about 9 percent of their GDP on infrastructure while the United States will spend about 5 percent. This cannot continue if our country is to keep its edge. 
To counter critics, the President acknowledged that 
these investments must be countered by reforming our tax code, increasing exports, reviewing business regulation and adding medical malpractice reform to healthcare reform. 
Americans are receptive to winning the future, according to 
a Gallup poll that shows we prefer President Obama as the policy leader rather than the Republicans in Congress. 
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering 
major. His column appears every Thursday.
Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
 Education can clarify gun misconceptions   
  Nicole Iovine’s paranoid Jan. 26 raving (“Car-
rying Guns on Campus Unnecessary”) was not 
only short on speciﬁ  cs but also completely failed to comprehend why it is necessary to defend 
oneself. Nicole claimed there are 30,000 people 
killed each year by ﬁ  rearms; she  neglected to mention how many of those 30,000 are danger-ous criminals who are killed in the act of com-mitting a violent crime.
  Perhaps it is Nicole’s inherent bias against 
gun owners that renders her incapable of look-ing at facts and processing them to form a logical conclusion. Nicole questioned how she is sup-
posed to defend herself against gun-toting indi-
viduals. A little research would lead an informed individual to learn that “In Florida, where 315,000 permits have been issued, there are only ﬁ  ve known instances of violent gun crime by a person with a permit” (David Koppel, “More Permits Mean Less Crime” Los Angeles Times, Feb. 19, 1996). I’ve got news for you: It’s not the people who legally carry ﬁ  rearms that you need 
to worry about.
  Nicole concluded her fear-mongering by 
invoking the ugly specter of the Virginia Tech 
shooting but apparently failed to realize that the Virginia Tech campus bans the unauthorized possession of a ﬁ  rearm on campus, even by a per-son who possesses a concealed weapons permit. The University of Utah, which allows students to carry a gun, has yet to have a mass shooting. 
Instead of exploiting national tragedies to deny 
responsible gun owners their right to defend themselves, Nicole should take a deep breath, slowly count to 10 and do some research.
  Frank White
 Gainesville ResidentLetter to the Editor
  I can’t help but wonder how Monday’s poll results asking 
how many of us have donated blood will inevitably be skewed by the number of potential respondents who felt 
too ashamed to answer one way or another.
  Some of us are unable to donate blood because we’ve been 
to the United Kingdom recently. Some of us are deemed ineli-gible to donate blood because we’ve recently been tatted up. Some are deemed unworthy to donate because they’ve used intravenous drugs within the past year. And then there are some who are turned away in shame from giving the gift of life for no other reason than for being gay.
  And it’s for this that we should all be ashamed.   Since 1983, the Food and Drug Administration has not ac-
cepted blood donations from men who have sex with men or 
any woman who has had sex with a man who has had sex 
with a man — effectively placing an umbrella ban on all gay men from giving the gift we’re all told could “save three lives in 30 minutes.” Even with increased testing methods and a slew of congressional representatives led by Sen. John Kerry this summer pleading with the FDA to reverse the ban, the FDA has refused. The FDA has refused to acknowledge that I and the millions of other gay men who wish to donate blood should be able to save lives. 
  While this ban is not grounded in 
science or statistics, as the majority of new infections actually occur within 
the black community, it further dehumanizes a community 
so often persecuted. 
  While anyone who has sex for money can donate blood 
after a year of abstinence from that “high-risk” activity, a gay 
man in a committed, monogamous relationship will never be able to give blood, as that “high-risk activity” grants an instant rejection regardless of time frame. And that’s dehumanizing. 
  The American Red Cross has said the FDA’s ban on blood 
donations from gay men is “scientiﬁ  cally and medically un-warranted.” A LifeSouth ofﬁ  cial even said publicly in 2009 he 
would be “completely comfortable” if the FDA reversed its 
blatantly discriminatory policy. 
  This slap-in-the-face, ever-present homosexism should 
serve as a reference to all that we are not treated equally under the law. Discrimination, no matter how far we’ve come, is still pervasive and debilitating. And I’m ashamed for all of us. 
  Jared Misner is a student representative on UF’s LGBTQ Con-
cerns Committee.  FDA should let gay men donate blood   Guest column
Jared Misner
Speaking Out
    A  recent study released by software company A VG shows 
that 58 percent of children between the ages of 2 and 5 know how to play a computer game. Only 20 percent 
know how to swim.
    While the accessibility of technology to people of all ages 
is something to be championed, it’s scary to see it transform 
childhood.
  When we were kids, none of us were plugged into any-
thing. Cell phones were large in size, but not in popularity, 
and computers were still a little too futuristic for most fami-
lies.
  Now, as 20-somethings, we’re expected to excel in all areas of technology. We check our in-
boxes throughout the day and respond 
to messages like it’s our job. 
  But kids don’t know that. To them, 
computers are just virtual toy boxes, and we let them think so, 
like we feed their faith in the tooth fairy. No harm, right?
  Debatable.   But   it’s hard to blame the kids for being 
plugged in because they’ve never known anything else.
  But we have. We might be the last generation to have one 
foot in each door, but   I hope we aren’t the last of our kind. 
  Bridget Gamble,  The Marquette Tribune, Marquette U. via 
UWIRE No childhood in face of new technologyUWire
Bridget Gamble
UWire8, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011
Now Hiring
Students 
flocked to the O’Connell Center on Tuesday and Wednesday for UF’s Career Showcase. Nearly 200 companies were present, recruiting students for both internships and full-time positions.
A student petition may put the question on the spring election ballot
stop implementation even if the proposal is 
approved.
“The administration could pull the plug 
on block tuition if they really wanted,” he said. “Let’s force them to revisit this issue 
again and again.”
Schneider and other members of the SDS started gathering support on Turlington Pla-
za on Jan. 18.
“People would come up and literally beg 
to sign the petition,” he said. “They really wanted to put their names on it.”
Rebekah Hodge, a sophomore history 
major, signed the petition the first day. 
“The reading for my history classes now 
is bad enough,” she said. “Having to read for five classes would be unbearable. My grades would suffer.”
SG Supervisor of Elections Amanda Grif-
fin said the question hasn’t officially been added to the ballot because they haven’t been printed or approved. 
The question would go on the ballot as a 
referendum, or a survey question, to gauge students’ opinion on block tuition.
“I think students will overwhelmingly 
vote against implementing block tuition,” Schneider said. “That is going to be a very potent symbol to the folks over there in Ti-gert Hall.”TUITION , from page 1400 attended 
her speech
as a “character assassination campaign.” 
She said there were dark days, some 
where she said she was called a glorified secretary.
“Because what can a girl do in the 
CIA?” she said. 
She resigned from the CIA in 2006 
and sued some of the main sources of 
her identity leak, includ-
ing former Vice President 
Dick Cheney and his for -
mer Chief of Staff, Lewis 
“Scooter” Libby.  
Libby was convicted in 2007 for ob-
structing justice and lying to the FBI about leaking Wilson’s name.
A student thanked Wilson for suing 
Cheney.
“I had to get in line,” Wilson said.
ACCENT chairman Zack Goldstein 
said the bureau paid the Greater Talent 
Network, the agency representing Wil-son, $23,400  for her appearance.PLAME , from page 1
OnCampu s
“People would come up and        
literally beg to sign the petition.”
Dave Schneider
Organizer for SDSJesse Lash / AlligatortheAvenue         thursday, january 27, 2011
List
— LAUREN GOLDREAD: Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen
When Jacob Jankowski joins a traveling circus, he 
encounters characters that test his morality and his deep love for animals. A film, which is adapted from the novel, hits theaters in April. So, there’s no time to waste. Pick up the book, and let the show begin.
WATCH: The 17th Annual S.A.G. Awards
Oh, awards season. What’s not to love? Get your monthly awards-show fix Sunday at 8 p.m., and gear up to giggle with friends as you watch Hol-lywood’s best-dressed and worst-dressed.
SEE: From Prada to Nada
With a twist on the classic storyline, two sisters (Ca-milla Belle and Alexa Vega) find themselves living with their aunt after their father passes away. But like any story with adolescents who lead fairytale lifestyles, there’s always a rude awakening in the end. In this case, these girls learn to embrace their heritage and find out what life is really about.
LISTEN: F—kin’ Perfect
P!nk is back with another sweet, but hard-as-rocks hit single that would appeal to anyone who is or who has been in a relationship. P!nk stays true to her I-don’t-care attitude, dropping the F-bomb  
every time the chorus chimes in. We can’t lie: This single is f—kin’ perfect.TheONLINE:PG 10: Get AMPED with UF diver 
Sean Saley
PG 11: Learn the truth about last 
week’s zodiac change, according to 
local experts
PG 12:  Find out how to cut costs by 
buying music and clothing locally. Check out the Avenue’s top picks for Gainesville vintage shops and vinyl stores.INSIDE: 
Want a nostalgia trip? Catch up 
with pop-rockers Hellogoodbye be-
fore hearing them play at Common 
Grounds on Wednesday.
MTV’s scandalous new show “Skins” 
was met with mixed reviews after it premiered last week. Check out our 
take on the steamy series.
Can’t get enough money-saving tips? 
Us either. Learn about ways to save 
on dining out (and in) on www.alliga-
tor.org/the_avenue.
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Healthy and wealthy couldn’t be wiser
By MAE BASIRATMAND
avenue contributing writer
College students are known for a sordid diet 
of ramen and delivered pizza. And we get it: Be -
ing on a budget hardly allows for filet mignon 
and crème brûlée as dinner options. But, believe 
it or not, eating healthy and tasty can be done on 
limited funds. Check out these tips to see how. 
u Plan
Before heading out to the grocery store, 
make a list. Browsing aisles of unplanned food 
can easily lead to temptation. Cut trips to the snack machine, and make your own munchies. Ziploc bags allow you to limit how much you eat. 
And instead of salty chips, try rice cakes. They 
have a crunch factor, contain a lot less salt and come in a variety of flavors.
Also, limit dining out. Oftentimes, restaurant 
portions are double the norm and are cooked heavily in oil and in salt. Before receiving the meal, ask for a to-go box and pack away half be -
fore digging in. Dining out regularly adds up to hundreds of dollars a month — a supply of gro -
ceries for nearly two months. 
uShop
Instead of shopping at supermarkets, try 
visiting a local farmers market, such as Union 
Street Farmers Market in downtown Gainesville. Find fresh produce in bulk, which is sold for a lower price. 
If that’s inaccessible, try early-morning shop-
ping, when grocery stores are the least crowded and buy-one-get-one free racks are in full sup-ply. Shop on the periphery of the store, where 
you will find healthier foods such as meats, dairy 
products, fruits and vegetables. Buying frozen vegetables can be as healthy, if not healthier, than buying raw vegetables. They’re frozen at the peak of freshness and often on sale. Though cheap, stay away from TV dinners, as they’re pro -
cessed and packed with salt.
u Make Changes
The latest trend in eating healthy, thrifty 
meals is vegetable and herb gardening. Mint, 
parsley, basil and garlic are low maintenance and add flavor to any meal. 
Also, converting from white grain to whole 
wheat is an easy change to make. It’s generally the same price as white grain, is packed with nu -
trients and, for some, has tons more flavor.Pockets feeling 
empty? Wallet feel a 
little light? 
Ours, too. 
Seems like every 
January, the story 
goes as is:
Now that you’ve 
drained your bank 
account buying 
that silly required 
economics textbook 
you’ll pick up but 
once, and all of that 
holiday cash you 
planned on sav-
ing ended up being 
blown on that electric 
overage bill, it’s time 
to start spending 
less.
And from finding 
cheaper music (yet 
still conveniently) to 
learning to cook at 
home, the Avenue has 
you covered.
For a fatter, thicker 
wallet and a few 
other bonus ben-
efits along the way 
(slimmer waistline, 
anyone?), check out 
some of our tips on 
getting the most play 
for your dough. 
(Right) UF advertis-
ing freshman Alex 
Witt, 18, poses for a 
photo on Monday.money talkBY ANDREW WYZAN
avenue writer
Sean Saley is just as comfortable 
with a guitar in his hand as he is diving 
into a pool. While training during his first year on UF’s diving team, Saley plays in the band Half Track, which is open-ing for Afroman later this year. He’s been diving since he was 12, when he  
would jump off his grandpar -
ents’ roof and into their pool. And his love for rock and all genres of music goes back just as far.  
“I’ve been to death metal concerts and jazz shows,” said Saley, who can easily jam out to The Beatles one minute and thrash to Cannibal  
Corpse the next. The diver shared what’s been on his rotation lately — a mix that explores multiple areas of rock ‘n’ roll.
“Knights” by Minus the BearMinus the Bear is very different 
music. And they have an awesome drummer too.”
“Shake Me Like A Monkey” by Dave 
Matthews Band
“I saw them live over the summer, 
and this song really got the crowd go -
ing.”
“Stockholm Syndrome” by Muse“It’s a really heavy song. I’m into 
that.”
“Reminiscing” by Little River Band
“I just burst it from my room to an-
noy the roommates.”
“Helter Skelter” by The Beatles
“I remember when I heard ‘The 
White Album’ when I was younger, 
and I wouldn’t leave my room until 
I learned the riff to this song. I kind  
of sucked, so I didn’t leave the room for a while.”
“The Heretic An-
them” by Slipknot
“It’s a wild song, 
man. I like to listen to this music to get pumped up for 
the gym or even a 
meet.”
“Elephants” by Them Crooked Vul-
tures
“A mash-up of Dave Grohl from 
Nirvana and Foo Fighters, Josh Homme from Queens of the Stone 
Age, and John Paul Jones from Led  
Zeppelin. I like all their bands sepa-
rately, so together it’s a big plus.”
“Plug In Baby” by Muse“That was the first song I heard 
by them, and I never stopped liking them.”10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, january 27, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
UF diver Sean Saley poses for a photo, getting ready to dive into the Stephen C. O’Connell Center pool.
AMPED with UF athletes: UF diver Sean Saley
beer
The best of the cheap for smart cash (and calorie) spenders  
BY RICHARD O. STEHLI
avenue writer
A lot of pesky things can get in the way of drinking lots of alco-
hol: school, work, parents, religion, money — and the list goes on. 
In good conscience, I can’t help you with your obligations to time or morality, but I can help you drink on a budget. No matter the occa-sion and no matter the financial limitations, there’s an affordable 
drink for you.
The best cheap beer
For less than 60 cents, you can enjoy a decent-tasting, 100-cal-orie beer. Compared to others in its price range, Keystone Light 
has a better taste and is less prone to defects. By no means is it an 
impressive beverage, but for saving money and keeping the beer pong table stocked, it can’t be beat.
A small step upIf you have a little more money (or pride), a dramatic budget 
increase isn’t necessary to enjoy a better beer. Pabst Blue Ribbon, one such better beer, is about 70 cents a pop. But there are cave -
ats: You’re looking at a 50 percent increase in calories, and a 100 percent increase in being a hipster. If you have the cash, Yuengling 
is the best beer for less than $1. WineFor less than $5 a bottle, you have to go red. 
Red wine has more flavor, body and tannin — all of which go a 
long way in masking any unpleasant tastes of table wine. But, keep in mind: For less than $10, the style and region on the label don’t dictate flavor and quality. Drink around until you find a brand you don’t mind.
If you really, really don’t careIt’s understandable. Sometimes it’s been one of those weeks. 
When taste doesn’t matter, head to your local ABC and get 1.75 
liters of pure death, which can go down for a staggering 27 cents.thursday, january 27, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
Stars still aligned: horoscopes the same, experts say
BY BRITT PERKINS
avenue writer
Social media sites were ablaze last week with 
outraged updates after news reports said the 
horoscope we knew and loved was all wrong. 
“I am not a Cancer!” one outraged Leo wrote 
online.
This recent astrological discovery is attributed 
to Parke Kunkle, astronomy professor at the Min-neapolis Community and Technical College and board officer at the Minnesota Planetarium So -ciety. In an interview with the Minneapolis Star 
Tribune, Kunkle said not only were there actually 
13 constellations in the zodiac but also that the dates assigned to each sign were off by about a month.  
“I was startled to see it in the news,” said Pe-
ter Barnes, assistant scientist of astronomy at UF. “It’s not new at all.” 
This isn’t a discovery in the field of astronomy, 
which is the science that studies celestial bod-
ies.
Nor is it a discovery in the field of astrology, which is the practice of interpreting and predict-ing information about life based on celestial bod-
ies and their movement.
Astronomers and astrolo-
gists acknowledge they have 
known about these phenom-ena for some time. 
But the primary reason 
this science doesn’t affect your horoscope is the astro -
logical zodiac is seasonal.
“From the outset, it was clear that the zodi-ac signs were not meant to be constellations,” 
said David Cochrane, curriculum director for the 
Avalon School of Astrology in Gainesville. 
According to Cochrane, ancient humans knew 
about the constellation Ophiuchus, in addition to many other constellations. But, intentionally, they created a system based on 12 signs. 
Therefore, the dates of zodiac signs haven’t 
changed at all. So Capricorn, fear not: You are still the ambitious and responsible character you 
always were. And Gemini, your talkative duality 
was never and will never be in question.   Nielsen SoundScan released a report ear-
lier this month indicating a 14 percent in-crease in vinyl record sales from 2009 to 
2010, with 2.8 million albums sold last year. The Beatles’ “Abbey Road”, Arcade Fire’s “The Sub-urbs” and The Black Keys’ “Brothers” topped the list in sales.
  But who’s buying these records? Well, accord-
ing to the folks at Billboard, “hipsters and boom-ers” are heading the market. Who would have thought that one day the kid in class with the “The Pains of Being Pure at Heart” shirt and — even 
more unbelievable — your parents, would help 
keep the music industry conscious? The jump in sales has also been good for some independent record shops.
  “A lot of independent record stores deal direct-
ly with labels,” said 23-year-old   Caleb German, who works at local shop Hear Again Music and Movies. When people make trips to local record stores, those purchases aren’t only supporting lo-
cal business but artists and their record labels as 
well, he said.
  With all the hullabaloo about the resurgence of 
vinyl, your good friends at the Avenue are happy 
to provide you with some local spots to grab the 
grooviest, most reasonably priced vinyl records. 
  Hear Again Music and Movies
  201 SE 1st St., Suite 105
  Hear Again Music and Movies was up and 
running for 15 years on University Avenue before moving to Downtown last year. It car-ries used vinyl ranging from about $2 to $12, and new vinyl ranging from $10 to $25, de-pending on how many LPs are included
and the number pressed, German said.
Since the move to Downtown, the store has seen an inﬂ  ux of new-regular customers that keep up with the changing inventory using the store’s   Facebook 
page, he said. Some customers may be looking 
for the better sound quality that comes with vinyl.“LPs have a much warmer and omnidirectional sound when compared to the unidirectional sound of digital music,” German said.
  Fans also get perks like liner notes with info about the album. Not to mention, vinyl records guarantee that purchased music won’t infectcomputers with viruses, he said.
The store carries a wide selection of vinyl from 
post-rock to blues and will order customers any album in print that is currently distributed.
  Hyde and Zeke Records
  402 NW 10th Ave.
  Hyde and Zeke Records has been a Gainesville 
staple since Bob McPeek and Ric Kaestner opened it in 1977. It’s currently Gainesville’soldest record store and has had artists like 
R.E.M.’s Michael Stipe, Red Hot Chili Peppers 
members Anthony Kiedis and Flea and Radio-head’s Thom Yorke enter its doors over the years, said owner Charlie Scales.
  Scales, who began working at the store in 
1981 and became the owner in 1990, credits the place’s lon-gevity with its consistency.
  “We’ve lasted so long be-
cause it has kept the same in-tegrity and policies as it started with,” he said.  “Also, by being so small, we are able to adapt 
with the times.”
  The vinyl selection starts at 25 cents, with the 
records ranging from $4 to $8.
  “New records vary according to cost, but we 
keep our markup as low as possible,” Scales 
said.
  Other Hot Spots in Town for Cheap Vinyl:
  Wayward Council
  807 W. University Ave.
  This volunteer-run shop is perfect for punk rock fans, as it offers vinyl records and hosts some 
ruthless punk shows.
Goodwill
  3520 SW 34th St.
  You’ll ﬁ  nd dozens of Christmas albums and 
classical records, or you’ll hit the jackpot and walk away with a stack of records a college grad gave away when he became an “adult.”    Like many students, I’m pretty much broke. I’ve eaten 
Burger King at least six times this week, I worship ramen, and every penny saved is a video game earned. Spending 
$50 or more on a blockbuster title might make gamers into mindless slaves of consumerism and pretty graphics, but that is a curse we’re willing to live with.
  For those with less money than myself, all is not lost. Recent 
years have seen an explosive growth in the independent mar-ket, thanks to Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Store. These indie developers have found new ways to explore less commer-cial, more creative video games for a fraction of the cost of a console game, with some of the big-boy developers doing the same. The results are that gamers get to explore interesting new worlds for less than $20. Here are just some of the games you could be playing right now, instead of forking over $60 for “Assassin’s Creed: Brotherhood.”
  “Limbo”  C o s t :  $14.99 (1,200 Microsoft Points)
Developer: Playdead   A stark, simple platformer that will creep you out in ways 
you never thought possible. You control a small boy in a mono-chromatic wasteland (the Latin name of limbo, limbus, means “edge” of Hell) as he solves puzzles and faces untold hor-rors. An ambient soundtrack and sparse aesthetic keep the player focused but unnerved, right up until a giant spider impales the boy with one swift jab. This game has been critically acclaimed since it ﬁ  rst appeared and is, without a doubt, the best horror game since “Silent Hill 2.” You’d be doing yourself a disservice 
by not experiencing it for yourself. Just try not to scream.
  “Scott Pilgrim Vs. the World: The Game”  C o s t :  $9.99 (800 Microsoft Points)
Developer: Ubisoft  If you don’t love Scott Pilgrim, then you shouldn’t be read-
ing this column. The 23-year-old Canadian slacker who lives in a video game-like reality ﬁ  nally has a game to call his own. Fashioned as an old school beat-’em-up similar to “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles,” Scott’s quest to defeat Ramona Flow-ers’ seven evil exes has become even better. The game com-bines the story of the graphic novel and the movie, and it ups the video game-related humor considerably. Find three other friends to play co-op, and get the maximum amount of fun. Rating: Awesome!
  “Pac-Man Championship Edition DX”  C o s t :  $9.99 (800 Microsoft Points)
  Developer: Namco Bandai  Pac-Man never has been this good. It’s almost a sacrilege 
to speak of the classic in such brazen terms, but it has been fully re-imagined for the 21st century, and I don’t want to go back. “Championship Edition DX” updates the classic ar-cade game by designing new levels that are so colorful and transﬁ  xing that I’m beginning to wonder just what kind of pills Pac-Man has been eating all this time. A thumping, energet-ic dance soundtrack adds to the swirling blues, greens and reds, turning the game into the best acid trip ever. Elements of “Snake” have been added as well, as the ghosts now follow you around in a line. This gives the player the opportunity to amass a long chain of them before chowing down buffet-style on their ephemeral carcasses. Welcome back, Pac-Man. I’ll see you at the next rave. 12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, january 27, 2011
Gamer Bait
   L
ike many students, I’m pretty much broke. I’ve eaten 
Gamer Bait
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistCheap, fun games for cheap, fun people
cal VinylLSpin away the cash bluesby BENJAMIN EVANSshopping
 To spend less, take a 
trip through time
  BY DANA BURKE
 avenue writer 
 
  Out with the new, and in with the 
old. Every day, it seems that thrift 
stores are becoming a more avant-garde venue for shopping. And here in Gainesville, students and resi-dents alike are lucky to have access to stores beyond the common man’s Goodwill. In fact, we’d go so far as to say Gainesville’s got a vintage selec-tion that’s the Rolls-Royce of second-hand-shop selections. Peruse the merchandise at these retailers and you’ll be sure to snatch a ﬁ  nd that’s one-of-a-kind. After all, one man’s trash is another man’s treasure.
u Loop de Loop
  205 NE 16th Ave.
  Created by a mother-daughter duo, 
this extraordinary shop opened its 
doors in February 2003. The mother, the late Roberta Kline, was the ﬁ  rst female mayor of Gainesville. Differ-ent from other vintage boutiques, it’s also a gift shop offering art, trinkets, comics, vinyl records and handmade crafts. “Most people come for the gifts. Many of the things here are one of a kind from their era,” said employ-ee Perry Der. With reasonable prices on rare ﬁ  nds, this shop is deﬁ  nitely a Gainesville gem with items that allow customers to relive their childhoods and help them recall simpler times.
u Cecile’s Consignment Shop
  2131 NW 6th St.
  This is the supermarket of 
Gainesville thrift stores. But instead 
of free food samples at the front of the store, there are stands of rea-sonably priced vintage jewelry. Vin-tage and antique pieces are labeled, making it easy to spot items for sale. From clothes and purses, to furni-ture and houseware, to collectables and knickknacks, Cecile’s has it all. “I don’t think there’s anything I don’t 
have here,” said owner Cendra Gier, 
“except electronics because I can’t 
guarantee them.”  
u Flashbacks
  509 NW 10th Ave.
  With a name like Flashbacks, 
one would expect stepping into the 
store to be like stepping into a time 
machine. In 1985, when the store 
opened, its inventory contained more vintage pieces than today. But as 
time passed, that changed. Today, 
while the shop still sells blast-from-
the past clothing, it’s also a consign-
ment shop. “At the end of the semes-ter, everyone comes here to sell their 
clothes,” said the owner’s daughter, 
Tatum Nichtberger. 
u Persona
  201 SE 2nd Place 
  In the heart of downtown 
Gainesville, this little vintage bou-
tique packs a big punch.  Downstairs, one can ﬁ  nd a myriad of vintage 
pieces and new items, and upstairs, 
there’s a plethora of collectibles to 
choose from. Persona offers costume rental for events —  something other local vintage shops don’t seem to 
have. “We also work a lot with local 
artists,” said owner Nava Ottenberg.  
Her design collection, Sleepwalk, is sewn locally and  sold in the shop. But be prepared to drop some cash. 
The items are certainly unique, which 
might justify the higher price tags.  
But rest assured: There will be no “who wore it best.” Your hard-earned cash will go toward an outﬁ  t that is ex-
clusively yours, proving you to be one 
of a kind. Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , JANUARY 27, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Call today 352-271-3131
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$439 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-8-15-1
$675(Price Negotiable). CLEAN. Spacious. 
1 Bed/Bath. Minute walk from UF. Nice view. Quiet. New Kitchen Floors. Painted Nicely. Washer/Dryer. Pets allowed. Moving out of town. You can keep the furniture! If interest-ed feel free to call or text (304)218-1628 or email stever0@ufl.edu    1-27-11-5-1
2/2 Condo Avail ASAP!Option to furnish.$700.Close to UF,Santa Fe & Mall.2 bus routes.Pet friendly.Great Place,Good Deal! 305.469.8020 tiah2005@gmail.com    2-2-11-5-1QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-21 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779
·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning
.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
Renting Now!!
We have REAL 1/1s
4 blocks to UF - GATORSIDE-1 MO FREE
400 sq ft, only $450!
1600 NW 4th Avenue
3Blks to UF- GATOR NEST
575 sq ft, $550 PLUS 1 MONTH FREE!
300 NW 18th Street
No application fee, most pets ok.
For info call E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636
or visit our website at www.efnproperties.com
1-31-10-68-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 1-6  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/D
Pet friendly
352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2
SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-2-10-30-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
14, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-4-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $9993/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089Garage included, Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-14-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. 
Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, 
large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-9-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA house. 
Beautiful wd flrs, fireplace, good size rooms. 
W/D provided, fenced yard. Pet ok. CH/AC, 
DW, 830 NW 16th Ave. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342  gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-9-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-9-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com     2-1-11-9-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
Really nice and spacious 1 BR. Walking 
distance from UF! Two blocks from Beaty Towers! Pets are welcome. $460/month. With parking & laundry services in the com-plex. Call 352-6725479 to move in today!  1-27-5-2
****  HOUSE 4BR/2BA  ****
Avail 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, bike to UF. NO Pets. Drive by 3532 NW 7th Ave, pick up flyer. $1200/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645    2-18-11-20-2GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-
11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
Remodeled 2bd/1.5ba Townhouse; new 
w/d; close to mall and pub transp; 4mi from 
campus; free cable; partially furn; 2 parking 
spaces; NO PETS $650 mo   (352)672-1571   
2-1-11-5-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances including W/D, 
DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
available. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    
3-31-11-42-2
Lg Rm, 4/2, Clean + Quiet
.03 mi to SFC, 8 mi UF. 2 lv rms, laundry, 
garage, lg kitchen, porch. 325 + 1/4 util (avg. 
80 e/month). 1st, last, sec dep (negotiable)! 
352-283-9905, sarad7821@yahoo.com   
2-1-11-5-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 352-871-7801    2-1-11-5-2
Treehouse Village
2 beds/2baths condo incl washer & dryer.Pool & tennis court.Bus stop opposite con-do.954-9186425   1-28-11-5-2MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th St       352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
●**ST. CROIX APTS:
$475 per Month, 2BR 1BA Apts, 3  BLKS 
TO UF! 840 Sq. Ft. Large Rooms,  Plenty 
of Parking, Central H & Air, Laundry Fac. 
Carpet,  Pets Allowed.  829 Sw 5th Avenue.  
●**CIRCE APTS:
2BR 1BA Apt  3 BLKS TO UF, New Carpet 
$450/Mo  $600 Deposit Window A/C, Nat 
Gas Ht. 216 SW 12th Street.
●**EFFICIENCY -2 Rooms(not bedrooms)
Shared Bathroom, Window A/C, Carpet, 
Across from UF Stadium, 1830 NW 1st Ave  
$295/Mo, $300 Deposit
●** ROCKWOOD VILLAS:
5542 SW 8th Place $750/Mo, $800 Deposit. 
Pets Ok, 2BR 2BA, Newly painted, New 
Carpet, Tile Floors in LR, Inclds Washer/
Dryer, Pool, Tennis Courts, Bus Line to 
Shands & UF.     1-27-11-1-2
Live in the CLOSEST apartment complex 
to UF! Price is all inclusive with: Hi-Speed 
Ethernet, Extended Cable Package, Water, 
Sewage, Garbage, Parking, Pest Control & 
Electric. Enjoy a private bedroom, spacious 
kitchen and living room.. Pool on-site! Free 
Parking! Townhouse layout. Rent is $504 
and available from Feb. 1 2011 to Aug. 9th 
2011. If interested email me at
ssuarez5@ufl.edu    1-27-11-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-20-70-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo 
at Countryside. $425/month. Short term 
lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 
bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   
1-28-11-16-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-
pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! 
Call 850-974-0686   2-4-11-20-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.
Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
2BR/1.5BA newly renovated townhouse. 
6134 SW 8th Lane. You have to see it to 
appreciate it! Come see it and make an of-
fer. Call 352-281-7411 or 786-537-2963 and 
make an appointment   1-31-11-17-5
Rent to Buy. 2BR/2BA Capstone Quarters 
Condo Near Shands. Private porch, back-
yard, new carpet, paint and appliances. 
Community Pool, $650/mo. $54,900 Call 
352-378-4626   1-28-11-15-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-20-10-70-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  
4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-0370
4-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
iPad Owners
www.CaptureNotes.com
is the BEST note taking app for the iPad
Created by Gators for Gators!
G8R Software, LLC - GO GATORS!
1-28-8-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
1-31-10-78-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $199998 Ford Expolorer $199997 Lincoln Town car $1999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $499999 Ford F150 $599998 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehiclesNo credit checkMove  vehicles $500 & up!352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay hereCars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans30 day warranty352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $590002 Chevy Camero $699903 Ford Taurus $6999352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $799904 Kia Sorento $899903 Nissan Altima $9999352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948    
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submir resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
16, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
2-8-10-30-14
OFFICE ASSISTANT Flexible, minimum 20 
weekday hours. Excellent Word, Excel, typ-
ing, internet skills. $7.25/hr. Indicate, major, 
graduating semester, available schedule.  
siva1950@yahoo.com   1-28-11-22-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, 
Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
Smokers are needed to participate in a study 
assessing the effects of various activities on 
cravings, withdrawal, mood, and smoking. 
Compensation will be provided. If interested, 
call 336-406-3706 or email
uflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-28-14-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-63002-4-11-20-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   2-9-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOBAll around cleaning & laundry. FT available Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 for more info and interview.    2-2-15-14STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, 
clean building, very minor mechanical, hours
1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]
12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   
11-20-11-5-14
CONSTRUCTION SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
Full or part time student. Responsibilities - 
AutoCAD, SketchUp. Assist with planning 
hanger, putting green, guest house, swim-
ming pool, fountain construction and main-
tenance of multiple business and residence 
properties. Back up Shipping, yard main-
tenance. Apply at http://www.gleim.com.    
1-27-11-10-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm 
& 3:30-9:30pm, M-F & wkends. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    1-27-11-10-14
EARN UP TO $300/DAY! Bartending!!! No 
experience necessary. We train you! 888-
575-TIPS (8477)           1-28-11-8-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, 
phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
NANNY NEEDED NOW  28hrs/wk; $10/hr 
10 month old; MWF 8:30-12:30; T/TH 9-5 
clean bkkg; exp + refs; long term commit; 
email resume, sched, pix, + hello to NOAH'S 
ARK NANNY:  gnv@nanoneone.com   1-28-
11-6-14
HELP WANTED: Student caregiver/assistant 
for woman with Parkinson's Disease. Needs help with administering pills, proper fluid and food intake, basic house cleaning, Dr appts, and errands. Knowledge in physical therapy a plus. Late morning and early afternoon. Min 10 hrs/wk. lisak0905@gmail.com1-28-11-5-14
Dependable,experienced Nanny needed to 
care for newborn; M-F; 35 hrs/wk; occasion -
al travel with mom; $9/hr. FL Driver License, background check, and excellent references required. Email resume toabtwbutler@gmail.com.   2-4-11-10-14
Now Hiring Starbucks Baristas!
Gator Dining Services, located on the 
University of Florida Campus, is now hir-ing baristas for a new Starbucks opening in March.
We offer flexible schedules, competitive pay, 
and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply online at www.gatordining.com or in person in room B-73 of the Reitz Union.   1-31-11-5-14
Get Paid to Take Surveys, earn up to $16/hr!Work as little or as much as you want. NPD Research is hiring workers to take surveys and test products, email is all thats needed. Apply at www.paidonlineresearch.info   2-1-5-14Translator-Interpreter, English-Spanish, 
needed for immigration law office - PT. 
Resume to:robjac@myimmigrationlaw.
com.2-2-11-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIESHOME, AUTO AND LIABILITYWHY PAY MORE? 371 9696www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-27-15
Beauty in the Blocks Quilts & MoreMaking custom-made quilts & t-shirt quilts.Great for special occasions & preserving event t-shirts!Go to www.beautyintheblocks.com for more information on ordering a quilt.   2-1-11-5-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research 
will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. 
Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Sports
THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
n THE CLEVELAND PLAIN DEALER SAID AN AN -
NOUNCEMENT IS EXPECTED BY THE WEEK’S END.
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Staff Writer
achiang@alligator.org
 
Just when Will Muschamp thought he was done building 
his coaching staff, it looks like another spot might open up.
Florida running backs coach Stan Drayton is expected to 
accept an offer from Ohio State to become its wide receivers 
coach, according to The Cleveland Plain Dealer. An official 
announcement is expected by the end of the week.
However, Florida is not confirming the report.
“Coach Muschamp is on the road recruiting, and our 
coaching staff remains intact at this time,” UF spokesman 
Steve McClain said.
Along with tight ends coach Brian White and lineback-
ers coach D.J. Durkin, Drayton is one of the three assistant coaches Muchamp elected to retain from Urban Meyer’s staff.
Drayton’s ties to Ohio State stem from his upbringing in 
Cleveland, where he became a Buckeyes fan.
“How can you not be?” he said to the Plain Dealer before 
facing Ohio State for the national title in 2006. “You’re sur -
rounded. The Buckeyes are all you ever hear about.”
Since Muschamp hired Bryant Young to become the 
team’s defensive line coach on Jan. 15 and round out the coaching staff, the Gators have turned their attention to re-cruiting with National Signing Day on Feb. 2.
POLL RESULTS QUOTABLE TEEING OFF WITH TYLER JETT
n Former Gator Maurkice Pouncey could miss the Super Bowl with 
an ankle injury. He and Mike would pull the classic twin swap, but 
Ben Roethlisberger prefers not to dive after bad snaps. Rashard Mendenhall took advantage of him the last time his body was ex-posed, and Big Ben knows rapists are never satisfied. “I thought I was out for the season when 
I hit that three in the corner and Vernon 
Macklin hit me with a towel — right in my 
boys. I almost threw up on contact.”
Chandler Parsons
UF senior forward, on getting hit in the 
groin during Tuesday’s game
Previous question:  
How will the Florida 
men’s basketball team finish its season? Percent (Votes)
Sweet 16 loss 44% (23)
1st-round loss 35% (18)
Elite Eight or better 15% (8)
NIT 6% (3)
52 TOTAL VOTESAlligator File Photo
Florida running backs coach and recruiting coordinator Stan Drayton is expected to accept an offer to become Ohio State’s wide receivers coach, The Cleveland Plain Dealer reported Wednesday.
Report: Drayton leaving Florida for Ohio State
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
As the Gators closed their 120th min-
ute of action over a six-day stretch, fatigue 
was clearly taking a toll.
Florida had just let a late lead slip 
away and was now facing the prospect of playing five grueling minutes with the momentum and a sellout crowd firmly against it.
Coach Billy Donovan said he could 
sense his team’s will starting to crack when Georgia tied it at the buzzer.
“Going into the first overtime, our team was teetering a little bit emotion-ally,” Donovan said. “I give our guys credit. We battled and fought.”
The Gators had just completed 40 
minutes filled with 
high-pressure defense 
and low-post shoving matches, only to en-dure the mental strain that comes with giving away an eight-point lead in the final 3:08.
“There was definitely fatigue,” senior 
forward Chandler Parsons said. “I was 
getting tired, but we fought through it. UF overcomes mental, 
physical fatigue issues“Coach Muschamp is on the road recruiting, 
and our coaching staff remains intact at this 
time.”
Steve McClain 
UF spokesman
No ‘I’ in team, but one in ultimate
When the UF ultimate team gath-
ered to practice Wednesday eve-ning, the most obvious element of 
its game was missing.
Just three days before their first tourna-
ment of the semester, the Gators didn’t even utter the word “Frisbee.” 
They may have thought it — as in, 
“Damn, I really wish we were throwing a Frisbee right now because this track sucks.” But still, Wednesday’s ultimate practice was not about Frisbee, as ironic as that sounds.
Sure, this doesn’t seem so rare at first. The 
football team starts spring practice March 16, but it isn’t exactly resting right now. The basketball team doesn’t show up to the court 
on game day and hope its shots are on. 
But this is ultimate. And that’s the point.
“At Florida, we’re trying to show this is 
a real sport,” said Nate Sage, an accounting graduate student who came to UF because of its ultimate program. “There’s a lot of schools out there who don’t take ultimate seriously . They’re like, ‘Hey man, let’s just have fun. Let’s smoke weed and go out on the field barefoot.’ No. We want to be taken seri-ously . We’re not just a bunch of hippies who want to throw a 
disc around.”
So, here they are 
at Percy Beard Track, 
warming up for a 20-team tournament this weekend in Tus-
caloosa, Ala., with a mile run, calisthenics and sprints — killing the hippie dream. 
If you play four-square at Turlington 
Plaza or Humans vs. Zombies, clutch your games tight before someone shows up and 
replaces your bong hits with sprints.
Florida will need all the time on a track it 
can get — about half the team will, at least. 
Captain Cole Sullivan expects between 10 and 14 players of the 24 listed on the Gators’ roster to see the field in close games.
Of that handful of players, Sullivan said 
only three or four will actually have the disc 
SEE TYLER, PAGE 20SEE HOOPS, PAGE 18
Tyler Jett
The Jett Stream
tjett@alligator.org
Twitter: @JettStreamin
Men's
Bask etballn FLORIDA WILL TAKE ON 
ALABAMA TONIGHT AT 7
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
It wasn’t supposed to be like 
this. The UF women’s basketball 
team currently sits at 12-9, just 2-5 in the Southeastern Conference, and is on a miserable four-game losing 
streak. 
Thanks to five losses of six points 
or less, including two one-point let-
downs and a two-point defeat, the Gators’ season has turned from a potential success story to a question of what could’ve been.
What if Kayla Lewis’ last-second 
tip-in against DePaul wasn’t waved 
off?
What if the Gators found a way 
to pull out a win in Tallahassee?
But the biggest “if” of all: What if 
Florida had finished the job against 
Kentucky and Georgia?Those questions linger in the 
minds of Florida fans, and whether or not they admit it, they are in the minds of UF’s coaches and players.
Freshman Jaterra Bonds said she 
and her teammates think about it. But coach Amanda Butler tried to deny it.
“You really can’t (think like 
that),” Butler said. “(You can) for entertainment, because it has no val-ue past that. As much as we earned those 12 wins, we also earned those nine losses.” 
But in analyzing Alabama (11-9, 
0-7 SEC), Butler did some theorizing of her own: “0-7 means nothing, just like we look at our record at 2-5 and 
know we could just as easily be 4-3 
or 5-2. You can go out in November and December and beat up a lot of different people, but when you get in league play , it’s real easy to find yourself in a losing streak.”
That is exactly where the Gators 
have found themselves. 
After a four-loss stretch, Florida will try to begin clawing its way out of the SEC cellar tonight at 7 in the O’Connell Center against Alabama.
Butler and the Gators have more 
reasons to not overlook this match-up.  Alabama won just four confer -
ence games last season, and two were against Florida — including a 66-61 win on Senior Day.
After playing four of the five 
top-ranked conference opponents in succession, Butler said Alabama would be hard-pressed to find a tougher sequence of opponents.
“You can look at it that way and 
give yourself a way out, an excuse for where we’re standing,” Butler said. “Or, you can just be really mad 
and disappointed and motivated by 
the fact that we shouldn’t be where we are right now. We should have got a few more wins than we did.” 
The Gators now enter a three-
game run against teams all at the bottom of the standings, and one more “if” stands in their path.
Butler and Jones acknowledged that everything — from ending the four-game snide to attaining the team’s preseason goals — rides on the next few games.
“There’s not any question about that,” Butler said.  
“We have to change the season 
around,” Jones agreed. “It’s now or never. We have to start getting some wins.”18, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011
UF’s skid hinges on ‘What ifs’
Gators’ stamina replenished by strong shooting in overtime
This is what we do.”
Florida scraped its way to a win Tuesday night, something 
it could not accomplish in its last double-overtime contest. 
Against BYU in the 2010 NCAA Tournament, fans were met with the lasting image of Kenny Boynton hunched over, ex-hausted after 40 minutes of intense play.
But Boynton, who played a team-high 45 minutes Tuesday , 
still looked fresh in the game’s closing moments — as did the 
rest of the Gators.
“We’re a great conditioned team, so we didn’t want to give 
up,” Parsons said. “We wanted to keep executing, keep mak-
ing stops, and it really paid off.”Florida’s capacity to persevere hinged directly on the same 
factor that has been a predictor of its energy level all year: the ability to make shots. UF hit nine shots over 10 overtime min-
utes, spurring an adrenaline rush that pushed it to the win.
“When you make shots in overtime, it can kind of revital-
ize you a little bit,” Donovan said. “In the first overtime, they 
played with a lot of energy. The ball was going in.”HOOPS , from page 17Saj Guevara / Alligator
Florida coach Amanda Butler said the Gators are not worried about 
the close calls that have led to their four-game losing streak.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Steven H. Keys / Alligator
Florida sophomore Lauren Embree performed well in her first 
match back from a wrist injury, winning in singles and doubles.
UF women’S TennIS
By THomAS nASSIFF
Alligator Writer
 
The No. 2 women’s tennis 
team opened up dual-match play 
Wednesday with a 7-0 victory over UCF.
Playing in front of a home crowd 
at Linder Stadium at Ring Tennis Complex, the Gators dominated the overmatched Knights.
The season opener marked the 
return to singles action for sopho-more Lauren Embree, who missed the entire fall season due to a left wrist injury that required surgery. 
Embree was the Southeastern 
Conference Player of the Year and the ITA’s National Rookie of the Year in 2010.
Embree showed well, beating 
UCF’s Alexis Rodriguez (6-2, 7-5) in singles and teaming with junior Joanna Mather to top UCF’s No. 44 pair of Courtney Griffith and Gen-
evieve Lorbergs (8-6). 
Embree was satisfied with her first performance back from injury, saying she had been itching to play 
over the last few days.
“My coaches told me that it was 
my first time back, so there was no 
pressure,” Embree said. 
“I just have to kind of regain 
my confidence, especially with my 
backhand because that was my best shot.”
Coach Roland Thornqvist also 
expressed pride in Embree and was happy with how his team per -
formed in its first match.
“We saw a little bit of jitters here 
and there, but I thought we played our way out of some jams, which is always nice to see,” he said.
Thornqvist was careful to men-
tion Embree’s gradual return, and the recovery process could make her a better overall player.
“Clearly she’s not playing as 
well as she would like, and she’s not playing right now as well as she will eventually,” he said. “But you sort of have to walk before you run.”
Florida’s highly touted fresh-
man class dominated, as No. 22 Olivia Janowicz, No. 28 Alex Cer -
cone and No. 96 Sofie Oyen all won 
their singles matches, helping the 
Gators sweep singles play.
The other wins in singles action 
came when No. 7 Allie Will de-feated Jenny Frisell (6-1, 6-0) and 
Caroline Hitimana beat Josephine 
Haraldson (6-0, 6-2).
The highlight of the doubles ac-
tion was the No. 1 pair of Will and 
Oyen topping UCF’s Rodriguez 
and Frisell (8-1).
When asked about the dynamic 
between Will and herself, Oyen said Will’s power complements 
her own ability to play the volley, 
making them a tough matchup for most opponents. 
“We’re No. 1, but that means 
nothing actually,” she said. “If you lose, you lose, and if you win, you win. We just try to play our best game.”Embree, team pleased with debutthrown to them. In the ultimate community , 
this is UF’s trademark: identify the best play-ers, get them the disc, lather, rinse, repeat.
There is no “I” in team, but there is one in 
ultimate.
“We have the most unique system in the 
nation,” said Sullivan, a UF law student. “We recruit athletes. We have some of the tallest 
players in the nation. We’re going to have the 
best three players in the nation, and we’re go-ing to get them the disc.”
Florida’s offense runs through those three 
best players in the nation. Last season, Sulli-van said, the Gators ran isolations almost ev-
ery play. Five players would run to one side, 
one player would run to the other, and Florida would try to simply out-athlete its opponent.
Remember your old rec basketball coach 
who thought his son was the next Kobe? This is the system he dreamed about. But it works.
In last year’s title game, Florida only used 
10 players — three offensive specialists, three defensive specialists and four players going 
both ways. Carleton College, the Gators’ op-
ponent, rotated 17 players. UF won 15-12.
The national championship was Florida’s 
second in five years. The Gators have finished in the top five at nationals four times during that stretch, putting them on par with Urban Meyer’s dynasty, minus about 90,000 fans. 
This isn’t to suggest Florida is run by a 
bunch of me-first players who lack chemistry . In fact, Sage compared the team to a fraternity and said it is tighter than his old squad at Azu-sa Pacific, where he played as an undergrad.
Florida found a market inefficiency. Per -
haps more than any other sport, ultimate teams experience a serious drop-off after their 
best three or four players. Similar to other club 
teams like men’s soccer and table tennis, the athletes have grown up playing their sport.
That’s not the case in ultimate. Florida 
added seven new players to the team this year. None of them had ever played competitively.
“I really like it, but I was never as intense as 
these guys,” said Cody Johns, a junior English major who just joined this year. “These guys 
are… wow.”
Senior Alex Hill is the only player on the 
team who played in high school. For the most 
part, that’s the consensus across the country .  
When Florida captains recruit new players, 
they don’t look for Frisbee skills. Ideally, they want to find kids who played more popular sports in high school and were not quite good enough for Division-I scholarships.
These former cornerbacks and forwards 
will need about two years to adjust, learning to command a Frisbee like they used to a ball and understanding set plays. But while they learn, other former high school stars shine.
Sullivan and fellow captain Alton Gaines 
were recruited while playing ultimate with friends their freshman years. Sullivan played receiver at Vero Beach High. Gaines pitched.
“When we recruit you, we don’t care about how good you are now,” said Gaines, a busi-ness management graduate student. “We care about how good you are going to be two years 
from now.”
Sullivan said he didn’t play his first two 
years on the team. Now a senior on the defend-ing national champion, it’s his job to turn raw 
talent like his former self into actual players.
Players who may or may not touch the disc 
much come game time, but players who will have as good a chance as any to touch a gold medal at season’s end.20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2011
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Members of the Florida ultimate club team practice Thursday at the UVS Field. The 
Gators have won the national championship twice in the last five years.
TYLER , from page 17