KICKOFFINSIDE
◗ Defensive tackle Jaye Howard, a fifth-year senior, has 
gone from toiling in obscurity at the bottom of the depth chart to Gators’ standout and potential NFL draftee. Read his story, pg. 2.◗ With a win, UF becomes bowl eligible. See story, pg. 3.
GREG LUCA 
Alligator Staff Writer
  Watching Jaye Howard rip 
through offensive linemen with his signature club move 
down after down, it’s nearly impos-sible to recall the player coaches once considered “lazy.”
  As the senior defensive tackle pow-
ers through would-be blockers in pur-suit of opposing quarterbacks, memo-ries of his life before football, of his time trapped in the basement of Florida’s depth chart, of the inconsistent play that masked his true potential, seem minute and distant. 
  Over his ﬁ  ve years in the Florida 
program, coaches have brought How-ard from reserve, to enigma, to beast. 
  “They turned a pouting teenager 
into a man,” his dad, Jerry , said. 
  And now, with just two, maybe 
three, games left in his college career, Jaye stands on the precipice of his near-ly lifelong goal: the NFL. 
    
  Football was always Jaye’s ﬁ  rst 
love, but initially the game wouldn’t have him. 
  He wanted to play Pop Warner, 
but size restrictions didn’t allow it. At age 10 he was 5-foot-7 and about 140 pounds, according to Jerry, which is ap-proximately a foot taller and double the weight of the average 10-year-old. 
  “Always been a big boy ,” Jerry said.   So Jerry turned his son to basketball, 
where Jaye, at age 9, played center in a league of 10-year-olds.    Thus began a career that lasted 
through Jaye’s tenure at Orlando Jones High, where he played under Jerry , the team’s coach. 
  Jaye was a force, a double-double 
player strong enough to earn a scholar-ship offer from Furman, Florida’s next opponent on the gridiron. 
  But when the opportunity present-
ed itself during his freshman year, Jaye chose to play football.  
  Jones found room for the newcomer 
right away at tight end. But there was one problem: Jones ran a spread of-fense. Tight ends weren’t featured. 
  “He just wanted to get on the ﬁ  eld, 
so he played defensive end,” Jerry said. 
  So began a new adjustment phase, 
as Jaye needed nearly his entire sopho-more year to learn the nuances of his new position. 
  The rest of his high school career 
was smooth sailing, and he eventually earned a four-star rating from Rivals.com. 
  “Once they put him on the defensive 
side, he had a passion for it,” Jerry said. “He always had the instinct on ﬁ  nding the football.”
  * * *  As well as he found the football in 
high school, he could hardly ﬁ  nd the ﬁ  eld at Florida. 
  He chose UF because he wanted a 
shot at playing defensive end, but the Gators were fully stocked at the posi-tion. His signing class had three other highly-touted ends — Carlos Dunlap, Duke Lemmens and Justin Trattou — joining a 2007 roster that already fea-tured future NFL players Derrick Har-vey and Jermaine Cunningham. 
  So Jaye, then a 230-pound defensive 
end — although Jerry said his son was closer to 260 — redshirted and began the transition inside to defensive tackle. In 2008 he was listed as a 270-pound hybrid. The next year, as a redshirt sophomore, the roster had him as a 296-pound tackle. 
  The physical transition was com-
plete. The mental part, on the other hand, was still a work in progress. 
  
  
  It’s spring practice before his sopho-
more season, and Jaye is pleased with himself after an impressive perfor-mance in the trenches. 
  As he walks off the ﬁ  eld, coach Ur-
ban Meyer delivers a sobering mes-sage. 
  “Meyer said, ‘Jaye, you can’t play , 
but you had a good practice and you’re coming along,’” Jerry recalled.
  Jaye is offended. He starts to pout. 
Won’t even make eye contact with Meyer. 
  “He thought he had a good day and 
the coach said, ‘Hey, you’re not that good,’” Jerry said. 
  After being the biggest and the fast-
est throughout his high school career, Jaye was a small ﬁ  sh in a large pond. The Gators were fresh off their 2008 National Championship — a win Jaye watched from the bench — and crack-ing the lineup was not a given. 
  He thought he was playing well and 
deserved more time, but the coaches and the ﬁ  lm said otherwise. 
  Jaye had to battle for his spot. His ability to freelance was gone. It was the coaches’ way or the highway. Follow your assignment every single time, or you won’t play . 
  “That’s what the talk of the laziness, 
the pouting, came from,” Jerry said. “Jaye felt that he played well enough to play, and the coaches said he wasn’t ready.”
  In the fall of 2009, as a redshirt soph-
omore, Jaye was a rotational player. He started four games and saw time in 12, amassing 29 tackles and one and a half sacks. 
  Then, in 2010, his opening ﬁ  nally 
came. With Dunlap and Cunningham gone, Jaye’s playing time increased. The newfound opportunity served as motivation, and Jaye capitalized in the ﬁ  rst game of his junior season. Against Miami (Ohio), he had two sacks and ﬁ  ve tackles. 
  “If you are lazy , good things don’t happen to you,” former Florida defen-sive coordinator Teryl Austin said the following week. “He’s starting to work hard, and good things are happening to him.”
  Comments like these served as extra 
inspiration for Jaye. 
  “It motivated me to go out there and 
practice even harder today to prove people wrong day by day ,” he said. 
  As a junior in 2010, Jaye recorded 28 
tackles, including 10.5 for loss and 2.5 sacks despite missing two games with a right ankle sprain. 
  Still, he struggled to shake his “in-
consistent” label. 
  “He’ll tell you himself, sometimes 
he didn’t go as hard as he should have,” junior defensive tackle Omar Hunter said. “This year, that’s one thing he’s stepped up. Every play, he’s not taking any plays off, any practice reps off. He’s going as hard as he can all the time.”
  After not playing enough as a fresh-
man and sophomore, Jaye said he played too much as a junior. But last year’s three-man defensive tackle ro-tation has grown to ﬁ  ve, and that’s al-lowed him to “give it all I have every play.”
  Coach Will Muschamp said he has 
demanded and received consistency from Day 1, and Hunter has seen new maturity in Jaye. 
  “He’s deﬁ  nitely grown up a lot since 
last year,” Hunter said. “He’s getting better each and every day .” 
  
  Much of what Jaye has brought to 
the Gators this season can’t be mea-sured in tackles and sacks. 
  “Leadership,” junior linebacker 
Jon Bostic said. “He’s seen everything. He’s been here through the good times, through the bad times. Basically , he’s the one that’s keeping everybody go-ing, keeping everybody up.”
  If any year provided an excuse for 
slacking off, it would be this one. Flori-da is 5-5. Once-lofty goals of Southeast-ern Conference titles and BCS bowls are long gone. Now, it’s just about get-ting to a bowl game and avoiding a los-ing season. 
  That hasn’t changed a thing for 
Jaye. 
  In his ﬁ  nal year at Jones, he was the 
only senior returning to a state champi-onship basketball team. Jerry said Jaye stepped up and made the most of the situation, leading his teammates with his words and by example, on and off the ﬂ  oor. 
  This year, Jaye is once again on a 
struggling team with championship memories, and once again he’s step-ping into a leadership role.
  “He’s still a vocal presence at prac-tice,” Hunter said. “Every time he makes a play, ‘Omar, it’s your turn. It’s your turn. You’ve got to go make one.’ … We’re all talking to each other in the game, and Jaye starts some of that a lot of the times.”
  
  
  Jaye’s days as a student-athlete are 
numbered, but neither he nor Jerry is thinking about the NFL. 
  Jaye considered the jump to the pro-
fessional ranks last year, but with the help of his family decided it would be best to come back to secure a degree — he graduates in December — and get another year of football under his belt. 
  Only time will tell if he ﬁ  nds a home 
in April’s NFL Draft, but defensive coordinator Dan Quinn said Jaye has many of the requisite attributes. 
  Jaye is “heavy-handed;” his punches 
have impact. At the snap of the ball, he bursts through the line of scrimmage. He can “play square” against the run and shed blocks to make tackles. He anchors double teams. 
  His bull rush is powerful. Against 
FAU on Sept. 3, he simultaneously pushed left tackle Samuel McRoy and left guard Andy Czuprynski — a com-bined 560 pounds of lineman — into quarterback Graham Wilbert for a sack. 
  Jaye has aspired to be in the NFL 
since he was 9 or 10, Jerry says, back when Pop Warner wouldn’t have him. 
  If he’s lucky enough to have his 
name called on draft day , Jerry predicts a simple reaction. 
  “It’s a dream come true,” he said. 
“He would never dream of being in that spot.”
   Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.
org. 
Editor Tom Green      Assistant Editor Matt Watts        Cover Illustration Dana Burke and Matt Watts
 Alligator       Friday, November 18, 2011KICKOFF
UF defense vs. Furman offense UF offense vs. Furman defense
TEWR
CBRT RG
DEC LG LT
DE
BANOLBWR
CBQBRB
SS FSJohn BrantleyChris Rainey
Nathan Wade Greg WorthyDeonte 
Thompson
Sederrick 
CunninghamJaylen WatkinsCody RiggsJelani 
JenkinsDe’Ante SaundersJosh Evans
Jon  
Bostic
Matt Elam
Dominique 
EasleyRonald 
PowellJordan 
Reed
Ryan 
CulbreathColin Anderson
Chris 
ForcierJerodis 
WilliamsAndre 
Debose
Derrick 
MurrayJosh Lynn
Mitch 
McGrathChris WileyShawn 
BooneRyan SteedMatt 
Patchan
Dakota 
DozierJon 
Halapio
Charles 
EmertJonotthan 
Harrison
Daniel 
SpisakKyle 
Koehne
Ryan 
StormsXavier 
Nixon
Ryan 
LeeTE
WR
CB
RT RGDE
C LGDT
LT
DENMLB OLB
WR
CB
QB RBS S
Mature Howard on verge of NFL dream
TE
A.C. 
Leonard
MLB
Matt 
SolomonMolding a man
NT
Tyreek 
PhillipsJaye 
HowardDT
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
After laboring away at the bottom of the depth chart, senior Jaye Howard has become a ﬁ  xture on the Gators’ 
defensive line. The boy who once was told he couldn’t play football is now a man on the verge of the NFL. 
AP Photo
Jaye Howard (6), a senior, corrals a fumble during Florida’s 48-10 win against Kentucky on Sept. 24, returning the turnover for a touchdown — the ﬁ  rst of his ﬁ  ve-year career. Howard has racked up 50 tackles, including ﬁ  ve and a half for a loss and two and a half sacks this season. 
DT
Colton 
KeigSharrif 
Floyd
Tyler 
MaplesWROL Dan Wenger (ankle)CB Jeremy Brown (knee)CB Marcus Roberson (neck)
LB Lerentee McCray (shoulder)
OL Chaz Green (ankle)DL Leon Orr (shoulder)
QB John Brantley (ankle)
DT Dominique Easley (ankle)RB Chris Rainey (ankle)
LB Kadarron Anderson (knee)OUT
PROBABLEQUESTIONABLE
QUESTIONABLEVOLUME 106 ISSUE 63 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Students experience life with disabilities
Dining with Disabilities was part of Disability 
Awareness Week, pg. 5. Faculty raises delayed due to lawsuit
Teachers unions are suing the state, pg 3.  
Darts and Laurels
Editorial Board looks back on what happened this week, pg 6. 72/54Check out the 
Holiday Gift Guide 
on pages 10 & 11.
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
GIFT GUIDE 10CLASSIFIEDS 12
CROSSWORD  15
SPORTS 17Haley Stracher / Alligator
Shake It
Juan Giraldo, a 21-year-old music major, right, leads the Hub employees in a Colombian folk dance as part of UF Interna-
tional Education Week.
� ALCOHOL WILL GO ON SALE AT 7 
A.M. ON SUNDAYS.
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
Sunday might be the new Naterday.
The Gainesville City Commission de-
cided Thursday to change the city’s alcohol laws that dictate what type of alcohol can be sold on Sundays and during which hours.
The changed ordinance will allow people 
to buy alcoholic drinks from restaurants, bars and other establishments from 7 a.m. on Sundays to 2 a.m. on Mondays. It will also allow people to buy packaged liquor from stores from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Sun-City votes 
to change alcohol sales laws 
� HE IS A MEMBER OF PHI KAPPA 
TAU FRATERNITY.
MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student was arrested early 
Thursday after police say he forced his 
way into a fellow UF student’s apartment and attacked her and her roommate.
Journalism senior Matthew Collins, 
21, of 1237 SW Second Ave., was charged in connection with the forced entry and  battery of two women, also UF students, said Cpl. Angelina Valuri, Gainesville Police Department public information officer. 
The first victim, Summer Poirier, 19, 
told police she had been dating Collins for the past seven months, Valuri said. 
She also told police she had agreed to meet Collins outside of The Courtyards Apartment complex, 1231 SW Third Ave., where she lives. 
Poirier said she opened her apartment 
door to leave at about 2:30 a.m. Thursday when Collins  forced his way into her apartment. She told police he had been 
hiding outside her door 
when she opened it, ac-cording to a GPD arrest report. 
Collins then began 
arguing with the victim and followed her into her bedroom. 
She said he grabbed 
her by the waist and tossed her onto her bed, took hold of the back of her head and slammed it repeatedly against her mattress, according to the arrest report. Student charged with  
assaulting two women
KATHLEEN BIRKHIMER 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Music, bubbles and blue light will sur-
round Century Tower on Friday night.
The UF College of Medicine and Healthy 
Gators are collaborating to light the tower 
blue for World Diabetes Day. People who attend the event will be given bubbles to blow upward to create a blue ring effect.
Before the tower lights up at 6 p.m., live 
music will begin at 5:15 p.m.
Dr. Ken Cusi, chair of adult endocrinol-
ogy at UF,  and Dr. Desmond Schatz, medi-cal director of UF’s diabetes center, will speak, said Kathryn Parker, director of the self-management program at the diabetes center.
She expects 100 to 150 people to attend 
UF’s fourth annual lighting ceremony, about as many people as attended last year. The “Go Blue” campaign is gaining strength,  Parker said, and other buildings like City Hall will also light up in blue from Friday to Monday to spread awareness.
The lighting ceremony is meant to en-
courage the community to get tested for signs of diabetes. About 26 million Ameri-cans have diabetes and 79 million are at risk for the disease, according to the Cen-ters for Disease Control and Prevention. 
A free blood sugar screening, open to 
students and the public, will be from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. today on the Reitz Union Colonnade, Parker said.
“We find students with high blood 
sugar all the time,” Parker said. “The other thing we want them to do is take the mes-sage home to their families at Thanksgiv-ing.”Century Tower dresses up 
for World Diabetes Day See AlcoHol, p Age 9
See ASSA ulT, pAge 9collins
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 63 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Elizabeth Behrman, 
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Joey Flechas,
  jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Matt Riva, mriva@alligator.org
 University Editor Melinda Carstensen,
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alex Orlando, aorlando@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Briana Seymour, 
  bseymour@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Tom Green, tgreen@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Elizabeth Behrman, Joey Flechas   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Allison Banko, abanko@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tyler Jett, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,   
  Caitlin O’Conner
 Copy Editors Greg Fink, Jillian Kremer, 
  Kathryn Milstein, Adrianna Paidas,  
  Shayna Posses, Marissa Prieto,   
  Rachel Rowan, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Brighid Hourihan, Stephanie Parker,
  Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Brandon Davis
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Allison Klempert,   
  Kyle Mueller, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Ally Russo,    
  Justin Scott, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber
, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
CLOUDY
72/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/58THUNDER
STORMS
82/55RAIN
81/54SUNNY
80/55TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Tree Planting with Neutral 
Gator 
Today, 9 a.m.Prairie Creek PreserveJoin fellow Gators as they help restore the lush, native envi-ronment and reach its sustain-ability goals. We will be plant-ing 2,000 trees, working until noon or until the last sprout is planted. Enjoy refreshments, a beautiful environment and green networking opportuni-ties. For directions and details, contact David at neutralgator@gmail.com. 
Sigma Pi Car Smash
Today, 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.Reitz Union North LawnTake all that mid-term week frustration out with a sledge-hammer on a car. Any and all are encouraged to attend and take a swing for free. Donations will be accepted and contrib-uted to the American Cancer Society’s Relay For Life. 
A Celebration of Catalan and 
other Iberian Languages
Today, 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Smathers Library, Room 1AWelcome and opening com-ments by Judith Russell, dean of university libraries. The line to jflechas@alligator.org. 
To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
CLaRiFiC atiOn
In Wednesday’s edition of the 
Alligator, a statement from an article about the Environmental Protection Agency is unclear. Robert Pearce said he does not criticize the agency for a lack of resources.wealth and importance of UF’s Iberian collection will be discussed by Matt Loving, romance studies as-sistant librarian; and Elisabet Liminyana, UF Catalan in-structor, who will focus on Catalan studies and the re-cent gifts to the Catalan/Basque collections. Catalan students will read excerpts from selected gift acquisi-tions.
Spitfire General Body 
     Meeting
Today, 5 p.m.
Reitz Union, Room 284Join Spitfire, a Christian spo-ken word organization, as we discuss upcoming events and opportunities. Feel free to bring and share your ideas! 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject 
 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 3
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sociology senior Darius Rucker, 21, expected his 
Nov. 8 rehearsal of “Chicago” to be just like the other 
ones. It wasn’t. 
Rucker found out right before that he was accepted 
into Teach for America. He could hardly contain his excitement sitting in the pit with his bass for the three-hour rehearsal. 
“I was super excited, but I didn’t cry,” he said. “My 
mom cried, though.” 
Rucker is one of 34 UF students who were accepted 
into Teach for America on Nov. 8. This time last year, 22 students were accepted. This higher acceptance rate is not a national trend, said Caity Hickey, UF re-cruitment manager with Teach for America.  
Teach for America is a national teacher corps that 
recruits recent college graduates to teach for two years in low-income communities.
Hickey expects more UF students to be selected 
overall this year than in previous years. 
“We just have a group of students who are a strong 
fit this year,” Hickey said. 
This is the first of four rounds in which students 
are accepted. Other rounds are in January, March and April. 
Although Teach for America doesn’t have a quota 
to fill, about the same number of students is being ac-cepted. 
Last year, there were about 6,000 students ac-cepted. UF was ranked No. 5 in the country for large schools last year based on its 75 selected applicants. The University of Michigan produced the most select-ed applicants in the country, Hickey said, followed by the University of California, Berkeley. 
Hickey said she thinks UF has more accepted 
students because the Student Body understands the achievement gap among students from different in-come levels.
When English senior Isamara Berrios, 21, was ap-
plying, she was told Teach for America accepts only 11 percent of applicants. 
Berrios is in that 11 percent. She will be going to 
her hometown of Miami to teach secondary English. She doesn’t know what grade, but she doesn’t really care.
“I am so excited to meet my students and see their 
faces,” she said.
Corps members teach grades pre-K through 12 in 
about 10 subjects in 43 regions. 
Rucker will be teaching middle-school math in St. 
Louis. 
“I’m really into music, and I’m thinking how I can 
use that to increase the amount of learning,” he said. Teach for America selects 34 UF students
� TEACHERS UNIONS 
ARE SUING THE STATE.
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Writer 
In the wake of a lawsuit, UF 
has delayed its proposal to give 
faculty members a 3 percent raise to offset a state require-ment for public employees to contribute the same amount to their retirement.
Teachers unions and other 
public employees have filed suit against the state of Florida claiming it’s illegal to require teachers to contribute to their own retirement, President Ber -
nie Machen announced at a Faculty Senate meeting Thurs-day.Machen said he has asked 
trustees to approve the 3 per -
cent raise regulation pending the outcome of the lawsuit. 
“I really am inclined to do 
this,” he said. “This could be a moment in time where we re-ally help our faculty with a 3 percent raise.” 
Machen also announced that 
he will ask trustees to raise un-dergraduate tuition the full 15 percent allowed for next year.
Two-thirds of the under -
graduate class graduated with no debt last year, he said. The remaining one-third of students had an average debt of $16,000, about $9,000 less than the na-tional average.
“This remains a remarkably 
good value for students,” he said.Faculty raises delayed 
due to union lawsuit
“I’m really into music, and I’m thinking 
how I can use that to increase the amount 
of learning.”
Darius Rucker
sociology senior4, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
activism
KEILANI RODRIGUEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Most people would never expect 
political  opposites President Barack 
Obama and Venezuela’s President Hugo Chavez to have a genuinely amicable conversation with each other, much less be photographed in a public lip-lock.
That’s the premise behind the 
UNHATE campaign, which on Wednesday released five digitally manipulated images of rival world leaders kissing, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy.
The images are part of a new 
ad campaign by clothing company United Colors of Benetton called the “UNHATE Foundation,” which aims to “contribute to the creation of a new culture of tolerance,” accord-ing to the company’s website.
The campaign uses viewers’ sur -
prise at the controversial images to draw attention to its message.
Both the Vatican and the White House have issued statements criti-cizing the campaign’s use of the pope’s and Obama’s image, respec-tively . 
Nutrition junior Faith Cayobit, 
20, first saw the images on Face-book.
“My initial reaction was shock, 
followed by confusion and bewil-derment,” she said. 
As of press time, the website had 
been shared on Facebook more than 13,000 times. 
One of the website’s interactive 
elements is a “Kiss Wall,” a page where users upload pictures of themselves in profile “kissing” the air and are randomly spliced to-gether with other users. The effect is a mosaic of random people — and the occasional raccoon or panda — kissing.
Digital arts and sciences sopho-
more Jordan Fine, 19, said he thought the campaign might satisfy people who like the clothing line and also agree with the message.
“When it comes down to it, ev-
ery human falls in love with some-thing,” he said. “It can be someone of the opposite sex, same sex or no sex at all. I guess the campaign is just trying to give people a more open mind.”
However, Fine doesn’t think he’ll 
participate in the campaign.
“I’d rather look up pictures of 
pugs with my free time,” he said.
Cayobit would rather show sup-
port in a different way.
“I would probably rather show 
support by buying products whose profit went to the foundation or by donating to the cause itself,” she said.
UNHATE campaign promotes tolerance
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Contributing Writer
A donation from a UF 
College of Medicine alum-
nus and his wife will kick-start the planning for a new medical education cen-ter, the college announced Wednesday.
Dr. H. James Free, who 
graduated from the college in 1960 and helped devel-op Gatorade, and his wife, Carole, donated the money.  
Carole Free declined to dis-close the donation value.
The money will go toward 
the estimated $45 million construction of the George T. Harrell, M.D., Medical Education Building. 
The college will need more donations to complete-ly fund the construction.
The H. James Free, M.D., 
Center for Primary Care Ed-ucation and Innovation will be inside the building. 
The facility will include 
new clini-cal skills centers and s i m u l a t e d 
practice ar -
eas where groups of eight to 12 s t u d e n t s can practice 
hands-on techniques.
The 100,000-square-foot 
building is slated for com-pletion within four years, said College of Medicine Dean Michael Good.Alumnus donates for 
new medical center
“It can be someone of 
the opposite sex, same sex 
or no sex at all. I guess the 
campaign is just trying to 
give people a more open 
mind.”
Jordan Fine
digital arts and sciences sopho -
moreFree
MAGGIE POWERS
Alligator Contributing Writer
In November 2008, Cameron McIntosh was an 18-year-
old basketball and football star at his Illinois high school. 
He ranked 10th in his class academically and hoped to at-tend UF the next fall. He had 20/20 vision. 
This November, McIntosh is a 21-year-old health sci-
ence junior who is legally blind.
McIntosh was one of four speakers at Dining with Dis-
abilities, an event Thursday which gave participants the chance to “take on” a disability during a meal.
The event was part of Student Government’s Disability 
Awareness Week.
Organizers assigned participants one of four disabilities: 
sight loss, hearing loss, loss of hand use or speech loss.
Rebecca Shionis, a 19-year-old exploratory sophomore, 
lost hand use for the duration of the meal.
“I feel like if this was a full-time thing, it’d be really 
hard,” she said. “I can’t imagine.”
Tommy Smith, a professor in UF’s College of Pharmacy, 
also spoke.
Smith underwent about a dozen amputation surgeries 
after he was diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis.  
The infection causes swelling and inflammation of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord, according to the PubMed Health website.
Today, Smith is wheelchair-bound and does not have 
hands. 
He said he appreciated the effort that participants 
showed in taking on disabilities.
“I think it’s wonderful,” Smith said. “It’s really nice to 
see students out here who are emulating different disabili-ties and are trying to adapt and eat dinner.” 
In his senior year of high school, McIntosh noticed prob-lems when he couldn’t see the TV out of his left eye. After months of tests, doctors diagnosed him with Leber’s hered-itary optic neuropathy, a rare genetic disease that causes blindness. 
“Every morning there’s new challenges,” he said.During his first year at UF, not playing sports was a challenge, he said. 
However, during his sophomore year, his aunt sug-
gested he try rowing. After researching the sport online, he tried out for the UF crew team. 
He made the team. “It’s been a really important thing in my life,” he said. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Maggie Powers / Alligator
Rebecca Shionis, a 19-year-old exploratory sophomore, eats dinner at Dining with Disabilities, catered by Kay Bros. 
BBQ, on Thursday. She had to eat dinner without the use of her hands.
Students experience life with disabilities at dinner event
“I feel like if this was a full-time thing, it’d be 
really hard.”
Rebecca Shionis
sophomoreReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Elizabeth Behrman
EDITORJoey Flechas
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR334 TOTAL VOTES43% YES
57% NOThursday’s question: Would you vote in 
SG elections if you could do it online?Today’s question: Did you sell your football ticket this 
week?UWire
Thanksgiving deserves more respect 
Walking into Walmart over the weekend, I 
wasn’t surprised to see special aisles strictly dedicated to glittering Christmas ornaments, 
a plethora of wrapping paper and tape. What surprised me was seeing how soon these ornaments popped up in the aisles. Where are the giant blow-up turkeys, fall leaves and recipes for stuffing? The store was even miss-ing door decorations saying “Happy Thanksgiving.” 
Are we giving in to the idea that if you can’t grab it off 
a shelf and put into a cart then that holiday isn’t as impor -
tant? Candy aisles dominate grocery stores around Hal-loween. Now, Christmas decorations and themed dish cloths are strewn about, and clothing at certain stores is more centered around the traditional color scheme of red and green.
Whatever happened to the good old days where we 
were allowed to show up for lunch in sweatpants, eat our weight in food, pass out in a turkey coma and wake up in time to watch football? Is it now expected that we move on to Christmas instead of celebrating a day to be thankful for what is around us?
From a revenue standpoint I can understand why the 
companies would push Christmas; it is the time of the year where billions of dollars are made in a span of a cou-ple weeks. Black Friday, which is the day after Thanks-giving, has turned into more of a pre-Christmas boost. Who knows, it might become a corporate holiday.
We all hear about the materialism that surrounds 
holidays on the radio, on news shows in the morning and from funny YouTube videos with people acting in an animalistic way. Apparently we need a certain pair of shoes to survive, and we will go down trying to get them. Tips are shared on how to maximize your experi-ence in the stores and walk away satisfied.
I know of some family friends who set up a “battle 
plan” to be sure that they get everything they have me-ticulously researched. They have a family of nine, and every member contributes to the effort, whether that means run-ning to get an item or standing with one of three carts to run to 
the checkout aisle. 
Pre-Christmas sales in 2010 were $584.3 billion, ac-
cording to The New York Times. The National Retail Federation reported that on Black Friday weekend last year the average consumer spent $365.34, with 212 mil-lion shoppers visiting both a physical and an online store. 
The holidays should be more about what the day rep-
resents, not what we can make from it.
Thanksgiving is about being grateful for what is 
around us and not taking anything for granted. It is filled with family, food and football. Holidays should be more than what you can find in the clearance aisle or what we can put into our closets for later. Christmas is big for Christians around the world; it is said to be the day that the son of God was born. We open presents, stay in our pajamas and decorate cookies. We even go sledding if the snow allows.
Sure the lights are pretty, and Santa usually eats those 
cookies and milk. Just don’t forget to spend that day in November jumping in leaves, cheering on your favorite team and watching the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Pa-rade. Show up in stretchy pants and cover every conceiv-able countertop with a platter, a gravy dish and a pie pan. The day after, go shop until you literally drop by choice or rush to an Xbox. Then, and only then, go to the basement, dust off that box of Christmas lights, string them up and listen to the Christmas classics. Have fun — just remember to take the time to buy what you want and to remember that each holiday is important. It deserves more than just one aisle.
Caytlin Hentzel is a columnist for the Iowa State Daily at 
Iowa State University. Troublemakers around UF might have thought we 
weren’t going to call them out anymore considering  we didn’t have our traditional Friday editorial last week. 
But start sweating because we’re back to highlight your 
stupidity. It may be getting close to the end of the semester, but we still have a paper to publish and people to pick on. 
And for those of you ready to get the hell out of 
Gainesville next week to enjoy some turkey and the trim-mings, you still have classes next week — whether you show up or not. That brings us to our if-you-haven’t-gained-the-freshman-15-yet-you-will-next-week edition of... 
Darts and Laurels
First, we toss a someone-needs-to-grow-up DART to 
the assholes who keep pulling the fire alarm in Norman Hall. The building was evacuated twice on Thursday, once at 11 a.m. and again at around 3:30 p.m. I guess students in the College of Education need to learn how to deal with middle-school pranks eventually. 
But, for some good news, we give a maybe-the-1-per -
cent-isn’t-all-that-bad LAUREL to Firehouse Subs for do-
nating $13,000 to Gainesville Fire Rescue. The money will be used to purchase a thermal imaging device to help lo-cate people trapped in burning buildings. 
But not every place around campus is being as friendly. 
That’s why we throw our next like-you-weren’t-making-enough-on-your-expensive-coffee DART to the two on-
campus Starbucks that charged 45 cents for a cup of water. 
Luckily it appears they changed this policy due to com-plaints, but rest assured, we’re watching you. 
But if you’re looking to buy an adult beverage at, say, 
9 a.m. on a Sunday, you might be able to soon. We’re giv-ing a why-in-the-heck-was-this-a-law-in-the-first-place LAUREL to the Gainesville City Commission for voting 
to change the alcohol-related “blue laws” for the sale of alcohol on Sundays. Once the change is finalized, the laws for Sunday will conform to the current laws for the rest of the days of the week. 
We could not end this edition without throwing a big 
you-bunch-of-corrupt-irresponsible-lazy-goons DART to 
the Student Government Senate for failing to impeach Su-
pervisor of Elections Toni Megna. The elections were total-ly screwed up, and no one paid for it. Way to go. Perhaps if you spent less time trying to get your cronies to vote in Alligator online polls and more time following your own rules, this wouldn’t happen. 
On a related note, we give our final perhaps-this-could-
serve-as-an-example-to-some-organization-on-campus LAUREL to FSU, UGA, UCF and USF for allowing online 
voting in their student government elections. It seems to work for them and costs half as much. But  how could the Unite Party manipulate results without having full control of the election process? 
Have a fun and safe weekend, and be sure to check back 
next week! 
Caytlin Hentzel
UWire FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011  ALLIGATOR, 7
  Late last week, Greece got a new prime minister.  
 Lucas Papademos, a former vice president of the 
European Central Bank, was appointed to lead a unity government that will force through auster-
ity measures demanded by those bailing Greece out.
  In other words, a country whose citizens have already 
been violently resisting austerity measures and Europe’s perceived infringement on their national sovereignty now has appointed an unelected banker to implement even harsher austerity at Europe’s bidding. 
It seems destined to end poorly.  Papademos essentially got the job because the markets 
demanded it. 
Greece’s previous prime minister, George Papan-
dreou, was forced out after he decided to put the most recent European bailout deal — which included austerity measures — to a referendum. 
Europe couldn’t accept its extremely unpopular de-
mands being subject to a vote and pushed for Papademos to take over. 
  Papandreou’s ousting and Papademos’ appointment 
were both undemocratic. 
Papademos does not represent the Greek people, who 
are overwhelmingly against more austerity; instead, he represents Greece’s creditors and the international mar-kets.
  He is also being billed as a non-partisan “technocrat” 
who has no agenda other than fixing the Greek economy. This is misleading: Papademos is actually a free-market ideologue disguised as a technocrat operating “above” the political process. 
The austerity measures that he will be responsible for 
pushing through the Greek parliament are not an inevi-table necessity; they are an ideological choice.
  Other options available to Greece to solve its debt 
problem include stimulating growth by increasing — not decreasing — government spending. 
The problem with slashing government spending is 
that it can cause the economy to stall and shrink, which would reduce government tax revenue and exacerbate the debt and deficit problem in-stead of creating solutions. 
  Indeed, an economic report re-
leased by the United Nations in 
September warned of the risk of global austerity damag-ing the world economy. 
The report said, “Those who support fiscal tightening 
argue that it is indispensable for restoring the confidence of financial markets, which is perceived as key to eco-nomic recovery. 
This is despite the almost universal recognition that 
the crisis was the result of financial market failure in the first place.”
  The fact that austerity is an ideological choice rather 
than a necessity is made even clearer when one notices that many of the austerity measures have nothing to do with solving Greece’s debt problem. 
  Selling off large chunks of the public sector at below 
market value and laying off public workers is counter-productive: Greece will lose the long-term value of state assets, and layoffs will hurt its economy, possibly mak-ing its debt problem even worse.
  Papademos is not a mere technocrat, he is a free-mar-
ket ideologue representing the interests of those bailing Greece out rather than the Greek people.
  And the same thing is happening in Italy. After pass-
ing a new round of austerity, Silvio Berlusconi resigned as prime minister, to be replaced early this week presum-ably by Mario Monti. 
Monti is also being labeled as a “technocrat” despite 
his similar steadfast commitment to austerity and slash-ing the public sector.
  Like Papademos, Monti will be unelected. Like Papademos, Monti has been a member of the 
European “troika” of institutions trying to keep Europe afloat: the European Central Bank, the European Com-mission and the International Monetary Fund. 
He is also the European chairman of a think tank 
called the Trilateral Commission, which once criticized the U.S. and other countries for having “an excess of de-mocracy.”
  Both Monti and Papademos are respected economists, 
and they seem to have some good will that comes mainly from not being politicians. 
They will likely get a honeymoon period, and the pas-
sage of austerity packages will be significantly easier. They have taken power to give a sense of certainty and confidence to European markets, but in the end their ap-pointments may do just the opposite.
  The people of Italy and Greece are likely to resent that 
neither leader was elected to his position. 
The austerity measures each will be responsible for 
passing, besides being extremely unpopular and causing more violent protests, will harm each country’s economy. This combination will likely make each country more po-litically and economically unstable. 
The move to restore confidence and certainty will 
have backfired.
  The crisis scenario and facade of nonpartisanship will 
allow each to make the case that he is simply doing what is “necessary,” when, in fact, each of them will be mak-ing deliberate ideological choices against the interests of the Greek and Italian people and in the interest of their creditors.
  In Greece and Italy, the power of markets has trumped 
the power of democracy. By appointing these leaders, the decision-making power has been taken out of the hands of the people and put into the hands of what amounts almost to dictators.
  Democracy and its institutions are supposed to bal-
ance market forces, not succumb to them. 
By appointing Papademos and presumably appoint-
ing Monti, Europe has decided to take an antidemocratic approach to solving its problems. 
  The U.S. should learn a lesson by observing this pro-
cess as it plays out: We should remember that our demo-cratic values and institutions should trump market forc-es, even in times of crisis.
  Eric Murphy is a columnist for the Minnesota Daily at the 
University of Minnesota.  
Greek prime minister’s appointment is ‘undemocratic’UWire
Eric Murphy
UWire
8, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
The young, old and Abraham 
Lincoln showed up to Rep. Cliff 
Stearns’ Gainesville office Thurs-day afternoon. 
About 25 MoveOn.org activists 
attended a planned protest at the Campus USA Credit Union at 1900 SW 34th St., which houses the con-gressman’s office. 
The protesters’ goal was to per -
suade Stearns to tell his Republican colleagues to create job programs, raise taxes on the rich and avoid cuts to programs like Medicare.
The event is part of a national 
campaign in which the group orga-nized 441 protests in 48 states, said Karen Epple, 57, a spokeswoman for the protesters.
The protesters first gathered in 
the parking lot, signs in hand, wait-ing for the clock to hit 4:30 p.m., their scheduled time to go in and speak with Jean Clough, Stearns’ district aide. 
Among the protesters was Lew 
Welge, who came dressed as Abra-ham Lincoln. 
He did it, he said, to garner at-
tention. The costume also tied into his talk in Stearns’ office, during which he read aloud a passage from the book “Did Lincoln Own Slaves?”
Upstairs, protesters clustered 
into the small office space. Most supported Epple as she spoke about the U.S. Congress Joint Select Com-mittee on Deficit Reduction, better known as the Super Committee.The Super Committee’s goal is   
to come up with a plan to reduce the nation’s deficit. 
Epple said that Clough listened 
as the largely liberal constituency made its requests. 
Some, like 79-year-old Charles 
Willett, were openly critical of Clough’s boss.“I do not respect this Repub-
lican Party,” he said. “I do not re-spect Mr. Stearns.”
Epple said she is fully aware 
the words of the crowd — and her own — may fall on deaf ears. That doesn’t stop her.
“We gotta try,” she said.The MoveOn.org protesters stayed for roughly an hour. Some brought signs, which displayed mantras including “Be fair to work-ers, tax the rich,” and “Cut bonus-es, not teachers.” 
Brian and Amy Klepp, 
Gainesville residents who brought their 7-month-old daughter, Lu-men, who wore a pink shirt that read, “Momma is not on 99% wel-fare, but your bank is.”
Stearns issued a statement in re-
sponse to the protesters.
“Although I am in Washing-
ton, D.C.,” it reads, “if I were in the Gainesville office I would let them know that I voted against the ‘bailout of Wall Street’ and that I am working to promote job cre-ation and reducing our $15 trillion debt.”
Then he walked out of her bed-
room. 
The second victim and Poirier’s 
roommate, Catherine Harris, 19, told 
police she was on her cellphone when he walked into the room. 
Collins then tossed her phone out 
of her hand and hit her in the face, ac-cording to the report. 
She told him she was calling the 
police.
Police said Collins left before offi-
cers arrived on scene.
Collins was arrested at 4 a.m. and 
taken to the Alachua County Jail.
He is charged with one count of dating violence-related battery and one count of battery. Both are first-degree misdemeanors. 
He is also charged with one count 
of burglary with assault or battery, which is a first-degree felony.
After officials read Collins his 
Miranda rights, he said he had agreed to meet with Poirier, who said she was his girlfriend, at her apartment, ac-cording to the report. He said he was there at the time of the crimes.
He told police he and Poirier were 
arguing because she was upset he was taking another woman to a social func-tion the following evening, according to the report.
Collins is a member of Phi Kappa 
Tau Fraternity.  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Seven-month-old Lumen sits in the arms of her father, Brian Klepp, during a MoveOn.org protest in U.S. Rep. Cliff Stearns’ office Thursday. 
MoveOn.org members were supporting Occupy Wall Street.
Protesters call for more job programs, taxes for the wealthy
Bars can also stay open later
days.
This makes the city’s alcohol rules the same 
for every day of the week.
Under the city’s current alcohol restrictions, 
restaurants and other establishments can sell al-
cohol from 1 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Sundays. Liquor and grocery stores can not sell hard liquor at all on Sundays.
The change will go into effect after the com-
mission votes on the item twice more, which isn’t expected to happen until after the new year.
Shawn Shepherd, owner of Vellos Brickstreet 
Grill and president of Gainesville Downtown Owner and Tenants, said people often come into his restaurant and want to order a mimosa with their Sunday brunch. He said the change will in-crease his revenue by about $75,000 a year.
“For me, it’s huge,” he said.Mark Barnett, owner of Gator Beverage, said 
his store is already open on Sundays to sell beer and wine, but it will help his business to be able to sell liquor, too.
He said customers ask every Sunday why 
they can’t buy liquor.
“We don’t have to say no anymore,” Barnett 
said.
Auriona East, a 22-year-old UF Spanish se-
nior, said the biggest change will be that the bars can stay open later than 11 p.m. — the current time bars and clubs have to stop serving alcohol on Sundays.
Commissioner Jeanna Mastrodicasa, who is 
also chair of the committee that passed the mea-sure, said in an earlier interview that she was wasn’t optimistic the change would get through the committee.
The deciding factor, she said, was that city 
police said extending the alcohol hours wouldn’t require more police to be patrolling near bars.
She said she imagines the businesses that 
will benefit the most from this change are res-taurants that serve a Sunday brunch or sports bars — especially on Super Bowl Sunday.ALcohoL , from page 1
ASSA uLt, from page 1He broke in and attacked his 
girlfriend and her roommate
“For me, it’s huge,”
Shawn Shepherd
owner of Vellos Brickstreet GrillThey rallied outside of Rep. Cliff Stearns’ office
“I do not respect this    
Republican Party.” 
Charles Willett
79-year-old constituent FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13 12, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
12-7-11-74-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
12-7-74-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
12-7-74-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
12-7-74-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
12-7-11-74-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
12-7-11-74-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com12-7-11-74-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
12-7-74-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
12-7-11-74-1
CARNIVAL FOR A CURE
Nov 18th from 12-4pm
3 & 4 bds starting @ $349
$0 to sign!
CARNIVAL Food, Games & Prizes!
Sign 4 Spring   352.379.9300
11-18-11-6-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        12-7-11-74-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
12-7-11-74-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600$99 Move In Special!352-372-7555FrederickGardens.com12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    12-7-11-74-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   12-7-11-74-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
12-7-11-74-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
12-7-11-74-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-111112-7-11-74-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom/3bath DELUXE
Only $1,099
New counters, cabinets,
appliances
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-74-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
12-7-11-74-2Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
12-7-74-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
12-7-11-74-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
12-7-11-74-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
12-7-11-74-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
12-7-74-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
12-7-11-74-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
12-7-11-74-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   12-7-11-74-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 13
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          12-7-11-74-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com12-7-11-74-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    12-7-11-74-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
12-7-11-74-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   12-7-11-74-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    12-7-11-74-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 4352-335-4455    12-7-11-74-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
12-7-74-2
Post Apartments- 1br apts in a quiet n'hood 
near campus/downtown; some utils incl.●1825 NW 10th St. - Pvt. patio w/ lock gate, green space, big trees. $499 ●1700 SW 16th 
Ct. - 1 block from Shands. $549-$599.postj@bellsouth.net - 376-0080, 284-3873.12-7-11-74-2HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       12-7-11-74-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   12-7-11-74-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
The Polos
1 Month FREE or FREE Cable
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
Move in by September 15th
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
12-7-11-68-2
4/2.5 2000sqft home built in 2000, 2 blks to 
Stadium 3 min walk to Campus. Free $1300 security deposit! $1550/mo! W/D Garage. Avail Dec/Spring. Rmmate matching. Call 870-7304. jeremybolton0@gmail.com   11-23-11-30-2Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1480/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    12-7-11-34-2
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - Bike to UF
● 4BR/2BA House directly across from
Law School. W/D, DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
12-7-11-33-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420    12-7-11-32-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   12-7-11-32-2
Close to UF, $570/month 2BR with 
2.5Bathroom townhouse. New floor/paint. Fenced backyard with W/D hookup. 1310 SW 61st, GNV, 32607. Call 352/332-4088 or 352/514-7098    11-18-11-15-2HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-155012-7-11-19-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    12-7-11-18-2
●●●● MUST SEE! ●●●●
1BR, quiet, custom-built, in-law suite. 
Spacious, living room, full bath, dining, W/D. Cable, utils incl. Close to all -- has it all! $700/mo. Call 278-8381    12-7-11-15-2
4br,2ba home off SW 13th St.,Kirkwood 
$1,250 rent. First,last and deposit. Looking for professional Students or single family. willing to rent long term. Contact-John at 352-278-4124. between 9am-5pm, Mon.-Fri.    11-21-11-4-2
1BR/1BA-Avail Now-NO Sec Deposit
$625/mo Close to Archer Rd, UF/Shands816sqft, $35/App Fee: Tennis Courts, Laundry & Gym: Cats & Small Dogs OkContact Julie via email: jmf1001@gmail.com    11-22-11-5-2
Newly renovated very clean, spacious prop-
erty near everything in NW area available for lease. Laundry room, lots of storage space, central H/Ac, fireplace, much more. $890/mo. Call 352-375-6754 or 352-495-6250   1-9-11-15-2
Get an entire 2/2 apt for only $820/mo avail-
able NOW! Clean, spacious, comfortable inside. Gated community. Access to tanning beds, 24 hr gym, basketball & tennis courts & more. Furnishing available 954-625-5043   12-7-13-2
QUIET ngbd close to campus: 2br/2b,
w/d, tile floors, built in storage,
bookcases & desk, lge yard. $800/m.
Call 352-335-7139 for more details.
1-9-11-13-2
1 BR/1BA spacious Apt.
1/2 miles away from UF campus No moving 
fees. Call now. $500 rent (786)-294-1768    11-18-1-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Cabana Beach Sublease 2/2
Available now to Aug 2012,
$509/mo each, Furnished W/Dcall  352-552-1757    11-23-11-14-3
Contact 305-502-6261
2 bedrooms, 2 baths. $515/mo all inclusive and fully furnished. Pet friendly. Available from spring to summer. Apt in Windsor Park.   12-2-10-3
DISTRICT ON 62ND
1BR/1BA available now in 3BR/3BA through June 2012. $412/mo, furnished, W/D incl. Call 352-514-2942    11-28-11-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-386612-7-74-4
14, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   11-30-26-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $650/mo. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com    11-23-11-18-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-9-11-14-4
Walk to UF! 2/1 SFD Private room, dual 
closets, share all living room, kitchen & laun-dry privileges. No deposit required $300.00 month first/last. 378-1775    11-28-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-74-5
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY!! 1 water-
front & 4 lake access lots, $84,400. Gated lake community near Athens, GA. Excellent schools. Financing available. Call the Bank Direct. (888)308-6729.   11-18-1-5
Pre-Grand Opening Sale! Sat. November 
19th Only. 6.34 acres w/ direct lake frontage only $29,900! Brand new, never before of-fered! Gorgeous wooded setting with deep water frontage on spectacular lake. Paved rds, power, phone, much more. Unheard of prices - excellent financing. Hurry out for 1st pick! Call now (866)952-5302, x 71    11-18-1-5
BANK ORDERED AUCTION - 174± Bank 
Owned Assets - AL, GA, NC & TN. December 6th, 7th & 8th - Homes, Acreage, Residential Lots & Commercial Properties - (800)323-8388 or RowellAuctions.com    11-18-1-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      12-7-11-74-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-7-11-74-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-7-11-74-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   12-7-74-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    12-7-74-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846       12-7-74-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.     12-7-74-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.     12-7-74-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       12-7-11-74-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
12-7-70-7
COMPUTER PROBLEMS? CONFUSED?
13 yrs in the IT profession. I can resolve ANYissue ● Desktop ● Laptop ● Networking● A/V ● Cell Phone ● Gator IT Solutions 
1 call does it all! 352-792-2214 Free Quote11-22-11-20-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
NEED EXTRA CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS? 
WE BUY SMARTPHONES, TABLETS, 
IPODS ,GAMING SYSTEMS*, LAPTOPS, 
&MORE. 6450 SW ARCHER RD BY BEEF 
'O' BRADY'S. TECHMODO 352-872-5881
11-29-7-8In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 12-7-11-74-10
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-037012-7-10-74-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       12-7-74-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Art is raining from the sky:zalooza.com
11-21-2-10SAWMILLS from only $3997- MAKE MONEY 
& SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship. FREE Info & DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com (800)578-1363 Ext.300N    11-18-1-10
FREE S&H - FLORIDA CITRUS: 20lb. Gift 
Pack - Only $34.95. Navel Oranges or Ruby Reds. www.box-o-fruit.com Text "oranges" to 72727 to win!    11-18-1-10
6 FIGURE INCOME 100,000 RX Discount 
Cards Placed in 80 Pharmacy Locations @.03 each. You earn $1.50 for each new prescription & $.75 for refills. Accumulating residual income. (877)308-7959 Ext.231 www.freerxadvantage.com    11-18-1-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    12-7-74-11
 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 15
12-7-11-74-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
12-7-11-74-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   12-7-11-74-11Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    12-7-11-74-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
12-7-11-74-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
12-7-74-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    12-7-11-74-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     12-7-74-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       12-7-74-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      12-7-74-12
CASH FOR CARS! Any Make, Model, or 
Year. We Pay MORE! Running or Not. Sell Your Car or Truck TODAY. Free Towing! Instant Offer: (888)420-3807    11-18-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by The Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            12-7-11-74-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    12-7-11-74-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  12-7-11-74-14
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   12-7-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   12-7-11-73-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.www.FreeCarJobs.com    11-18-11-57-14This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  12-7-74-13
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-74-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      12-5-11-77-13 
16, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
 PROOFREADER
ACT/SAT ADMINISTRATORLINUX ADMINISTRATORGRAPHICS DESIGNERX-PLANE DEVELOPERSOFTWARE DEVELOPERTECH SUPPORTPlease apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment.      12-7-11-16-14
Inactive adults (age 50+) needed to participate 
in a study conducted by the UF GetUpAndGo initiative assessing the accuracy of an ad-vanced pedometer. Compensation provided. Call 336-406-3706 or email FitBit10000@gmail.com   11-18-5-14
DSG Associates, Inc. is looking for
individuals to participate in apaid online research study. Sign up for free atwww.dsgai.com orcall 800-462-8765 today!    11-21-5-14
Sanford Office looking for General Dentist 
to work with a great team. Part-Time(one-two days a week)Position available as soon as possible. fax Resume to (407) 324-9229    1-10-11-17-14
Admin asst for local accountant
Organized, reliable,friendly Duties: phone, mail, bankingfiling. Transportation a must10hrs/wk 7.35/hr possible raiseSend resume: info@fratmgmt.com   11-21-11-5-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7064    1-9-11-16-14
P/T babysitter wanted, for four children age 
2-9, various hours available, $12/hr. must be reliable, patient, energetic, and have experi-ence with children as young as 2. Email re-sume and references tonannyforfam@gmail.com.    11-18-11-3-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts avail for 1-9:30pm, 
M-F. Wkend hrs vary. 15-20 hrs/wk Fax re-sume & availability to 373-2230   12-1-11-10-14
Web developers and marketing interns 
wanted by established online retailer. Please send your cover letter, resume and/or portfo-lio of works to robinw@threadpit.com or call 352-371-6536 for more information.    11-23-11-5-14
Seeking Professional Leasing All Stars !
Ideal candidates enjoy working with people, 
have excellent communication skills, profes-sional appearance and have the ability to close a deal. Leasing experience is preferred but not required. Some evening and week-end hours required. Schedules are flexible. This is a PT position. Please fax resumes to: 352-379-8071    11-28-5-14
Need 13 Good Drivers Top 5% Pay & 401K 
2 Mos. CDL Class A Driving Exp (877)258-8782 www.meltontruck.com    11-18-1-14
Drivers: Run GA, AL, MS, TN & FL HOME 
WEEKENDS, Earn Up to 39¢/mi, 1 yr OTR Flatbed exp. Call: SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC (800)572-5489 ext. 227    11-18-1-14Driver - Refrigerated lanes with lots of miles, hometime choices, daily pay and single source dispatch. Modern equipment! CDL-A, 3 months recent experience required. (800)414-9569. www.driveknight.com    11-18-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   12-7-74-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  12-7-11-74-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
12-7-74-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
12-7-11-74-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Weddings ●  Events ●  Portraits ●  Slideshows
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
12-7-78-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ-ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)359-1690     11-18-1-15AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for hands 
on Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA ap-proved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769    11-18-1-15
EARN COLLEGE DEGREE ONLINE. 
*Medical, *Business, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (877)206-5165 www.CenturaOnline.com   11-18-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com   11-18-1-15
ALLIED HEALTH career training-Attend col-
lege 100% online. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.com   11-18-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
12-7-74-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
12-7-74-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
12-7-11-74-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS) and 
Basic Life Support(BLS) classes. Meets Shands and SFC requirements. All certs is-sued are American Heart Assoc. We do indi-vidual and group classes. Call Cardiac One at (352)494-4217.   11-23-11-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
12-7-74-18Best religion? NO religion!
Get to know your Creator.See why the Bible is uniqueTry You Tube: "Chuck Missler What is Truth Session 2" from 48:00 mins to 1:08;00  11-18-11-8-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
White, male, mid-50's, brown hair, blue eyes, 
5'9", good-looking. ex-biker, vet. Fighting cancer. New here. Scared, lonely. Need nice lady to enjoy some time, fun and maybe more. 352-328-2096   11-23-11-5-19
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Advertising that Works. Put your ad in Over 
100 Papers throughout Florida for one LOW RATE! Call (866)742-1373 or visit:www.florida-classifieds.com    11-18-1-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-104412-7-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
12-7-74-21
MCINTOSHWORLD.COM a boutique in 
a barn!Used books,old thoughts and new things. The existing order of surfdom can-not remain unchanged. It is better to abol-ish surfdom from above than to wait until the surfs begin to liberate themselves from below. Alexander 11. Hwy.441S. 15 min. to change what you thought a store could be.    11-22-30-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST!! 2011 NCAA Women's Tennis 
Championship ring. searched everywhere! Men's style with large blue F surrounded by crystals. Stored in small black box - last seen near Looking Glass apartments. Reward! lauramather@comcast.net    11-28-11-7-25
 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011 § ALLIGATOR, 17
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida senior midfielder Tahnai Annis (9) has become an offensive force down the 
stretch for the Gators, using aggressive tactics to score goals in pivotal games. 
SOCCER
JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
Tahnai Annis is constantly putting her -
self in harm’s way.
The smallest Gator sacrifices her body to 
find the back of the net, and it’s working.
The senior midfielder will look to con-
tinue her recent scoring tear as No. 2 seed 
Florida (17-7) hosts UCF (12-4-5) in the sec-ond round of the NCAA tournament at 7 in Pressly Stadium.
In the first round of the Southeastern 
Conference Tournament and again in the NCAA tournament, Annis had two-goal ef-forts. Her recent success can be attributed to her willingness to make dangerous plays in traffic around the net. 
“You know when you are challenging 
for balls in the box it is going to be a chal-lenge,” coach Becky Burleigh said. “There is going to be someone else in there trying to get that ball out. Her willingness to do that has made her very successful.”
In Florida’s 3-0 first-round win against 
Florida Gulf Coast last Saturday, the first goal was a perfect example of the 5-foot-1 Annis’ willingness to risk her body for her team. Junior forward Erika Tymrak played a ball through the middle of the box from the left in the 16th minute. A diving Annis headed it past the keeper from 5 yards out.
Annis said there is not anything flashy 
about her goals. Just sheer effort.
“It’s not like I’m taking people on from 
midfield, dribbling around three people and then shooting from 25 (yards) out,” Annis said. “It’s just me making a choice to get in the box and being willing to throw myself at the ball in order to score.”Despite her small stature, Annis is rarely 
at a disadvantage when challenging taller players for first balls off free or corner kicks. Her second goal against FGCU came from 10 yards out when she headed in a free kick from freshman midfielder Annie Speese.
“She’s got some ups,” Burleigh said.Aside from the goals, another benefit of 
Annis’ aggressive play is that it rubs off on her teammates.
“It can kind of be a contagious thing,” 
Annis said. “(It can) show other players on the field that an aggressive mindset can translate to offense and help with get-ting you to score those that you might not have been able to score if you didn’t make that extra slide and throw your body at the ball.”
UCF was a victim of Annis’ offensive 
prowess in the second game of the 2010 season, when she scored two goals. One of those goals came when Tymrak fed her a ball from just outside the box. Annis was able to get her foot on it just in front of a pair of two defenders to score from 10 yards out at the far post before sliding into the keeper. 
“She’s the type of player that doesn’t 
care if she is going to get hurt,” Tymrak said. “She’s going to do anything to score, and I look up to that and our team respects that so much.”Annis, UF to host UCF tonight
“She’s the type of player that 
doesn’t care if she is going to get 
hurt.”
Erika Tymrak
UF forwardFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
More Content Online
Visit alligatorSports.org for a preview of the Florida’s swimming 
teams’ trip to Georgia Tech. The men’s and women’s team will face Florida State, Miami and No. 22 Virginia Tech, among others.Twitter Lovin’
Follow our football writers on Twitter for live updates and analysis from Saturday’s game against Furman: @GregLuca, @Tyler__Jett, @WattMatts and @Tomas_Verde.Senior Josh Izewski and the UF men’s cross country team have excelled because of the efforts of the No. 4 and No. 5 runners.See story at alligatorSports.org. 
We here at the alligatorSports 
Brand Picks Column love nothing more than fine 
films. 
“Citizen Kane?” Rosy. Want to 
watch “Casablanca?” We could start a beautiful friendship. “The Wizard of Oz?” There’s no place like the couch, with some popcorn and that VCR you’ve had stuffed in the attic all these years. 
That’s why we’re so disappoint-
ed that there’s a new edition of this “Twilight” thing coming out today. Seriously, what is this garbage? 
Vampires? Werewolves? There’s a 
love story involved? We don’t get it. 
Back in our day, werewolves were 
only good for ripping people’s faces off, and vampires kept to themselves unless it was nighttime and they were hungry. 
With that in mind, we let two of 
our writers debate a game between two teams that have been keeping it real since way back in the 1800s: Vanderbilt and Tennessee. 
The Commodores (-1.5) will taste 
Volunteer blood because…
Unlike werewolves and fairies, 
this Vanderbilt team is for real. 
Quarterback Jordan Rodgers is as 
good as they come, and he’s going to strangle Tennessee with his brother Aaron’s championship belt. 
In the six games since becoming 
Vandy’s go-to guy, he has thrown for 1,081 yards and run for another 313. 
The Commodores were a national 
power in the early 1900s before com-pletely falling off the map. But now, just like our vampire friends, they’re back from the dead in a major way. 
This time, it’s for good. 
— GREG LUCA
Tennessee (+1.5) will go Team 
Jacob on Vanderbilt because …Picks
Column
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF:  1 p.m., Saturday 
TV/RADIO:  PPV / 850 AM
see PICKs, P age 20
David Carr / alligator 
Florida freshman Brad Beal (23) scored 12 points and grabbed 10 re-
bounds in a 91-55 win against UNF on Wednesday. 
� WITH YEGUETE OUT, UF WINS 91-55 AGAINST UNF.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Two days after facing their toughest frontcourt test of the 
young season, a possible injury caused the Gators to get creative 
with their lineup down low.
Sophomore Will Yeguete — usually UF’s first forward off the 
bench — was forced to the sidelines prior to Thursday night’s home game against North Florida due to concussion-like symp-toms resulting from a blow he suffered against Ohio State on Tuesday.
Without their second-leading rebounder, the No. 7 Gators (2-
1) relied on as many as four guards on the court for the first time this season to defeat the Ospreys (1-2), 91-55, in the O’Connell Center. 
“We were uncomfortable, actually, because [playing four 
guards] hadn’t happened even in practice,” junior guard Kenny Boynton said. “Overall, we’re going to start doing that more in practice, but I definitely like that set on defense.”
In nearly eight minutes of playing four guards to close the 
first half, the Gators forced five turnovers and allowed nine points. 
Though Boynton led all scorers with 20 points and senior Er -
ving Walker added 17 of his own, Florida struggled through a 37.9 percent shooting performance on 11 of 29 attempts from three.
“I’ve got to try to find a way to help them,” coach Billy Don-
ovan said. “Pat Young was doing a great job freeing them up with screens, but we got so perimeter-oriented that Pat wasn’t really involved.”
Coming off a 14-point performance against the Buckeyes, 
Young had seven points on seven shots.
While the four-guard lineup didn’t spark the Gators’ offense, 
it did provide a chance for their backcourt to be more involved on the boards.
After grabbing five rebounds in two games, 6-foot-3 fresh-
man Brad Beal registered his first career double-double with 12 points and a game-high 10 rebounds. Walker hauled in six boards of his own, as Florida made up for its lack of threes with 29 second-chance points.
“I need to start doing it more often like coach Donovan Gators debut four-guard lineup in home win
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Writer
 
When slapped with a technical foul late in the second half, 
Florida center Azania Stewart flashed a smile.
Florida State center Cierra Bravard also earned a technical 
on the play, causing her to foul out with 3:48 remaining in the 
game.
“We knew that she gets frustrated when she can’t get her 
way, so that was kind of intentional, that intentional foul,” Stewart said.
The Gators (2-1) never trailed in a 72-58 upset victory 
against the No. 21 Seminoles (2-2) on Thursday night in the O’Connell Center.Going into the game, Stewart, a senior, and junior forward 
Jennifer George planned to outdo Bravard, who was named a preseason All-American by The Sporting News.
Although Bravard scored 22 points and grabbed nine re-
bounds, the combined efforts of Stewart and George resulted in 28 points, 10 rebounds and six blocks.
Eighteen of those 
points came from George — a team-high mark — on 9-of-11 
shooting, giving her 39 points in Florida’s last two games.
“It was very important for us to match Florida State’s post 
(players) in the paint,” George said. “We just wanted to try and Florida notches upset of No. 21 Florida State 
UF Women’s Bask etball
see W-HooPs, P age 19see HooPs, P age 1920, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
 
This game is taking place after dawn. The moon will 
be out, allowing the Volunteers to transform into another animal. Plus, quarterback Tyler Bray is back.
Bray’s return will give the Tennessee attack sharp teeth, 
something it has needed since the sophomore suffered a broken thumb against Georgia on Oct. 8. In five games with Bray, the Volunteers scored 163 points. They have scored 47 points in five games without him.
But Bray looks to be back, baby, and Tennessee is ready 
to unleash its inner beast. Expect coach Derek Dooley to let out a victorious howl at the end of this one.  
— TYLER JETT
Now, on to the picks!
In first with a 52-34 mark is the Associated Press’ Mark 
“If I beat them, they’ll accept me” Long, who is taking this 
picks column WAY too seriously, demanding updated standings every Monday morning. Stop trying so hard to fit in with the college kids, Mark. Just be yourself. We’ll never like you anyway.
Closing the gap in second with a 49-36 record is alliga-
torSports writer Greg “Your fingers make my head look pretty” Luca, who needs just one thing to style his hair: another man’s hands. Greg abandoned his tried-and-true bowl cut for Bama Bangs this week, but he doesn’t know how to manipulate his mane without a little bro-aid help. He would use a mirror, if they weren’t backwards and all.
In third at 47-39 is alligatorSports assistant editor Matt 
“In my day, we read these things called books” Watts, who showed his age when talking about how he wrote research papers back in grade school. Apparently, he used an ency-clopedia, which you can make by printing every page of Wikipedia and binding them together. Talk about useless.
Sliding up into fourth at 44-42 is alligatorSports writer 
Tyler “All food shall be fried and served with pickles” Jett, whose life as a Chick-Fil-A missionary means a backpack filled with chargrilled sandwiches and pockets stuffed with honey mustard packets. Tyler is so devout that he fasts every Sunday — but that’s only because brother Tru-ett Cathy won’t unlock his restaurant.
Tied with Tyler is FightinGators.com’s Cody “It stopped 
becoming a study group; it became something unstoppa-ble” Jones, who has started an online petition to save the NBC cult hit “Community.” This plan is going to be Brit-tad. If you don’t get that joke, we’re saying it will be as suc-cessful as that time Donald Glover and Chevy Chase lived together. If don’t get that joke, God help you.
In sixth at an even 43-43 is ESPN’s Mike “It’s like deal-
ing with your in-laws: Sometimes you just have to shut up and eat Thanksgiving dinner and drink a little more than usual” DiRocco, who handed out that life advice to a younger writer this week. We don’t know the context, but that’s not important. Season’s greetings, from the D-Rock family!
Holding strong in seventh at 42-44 is InsideTheGators.
com’s Kyle “I’m not scared of these bitches” Maistri, who ripped off his T-shirt, Hulk Hogan style, and told fellow writers he was ready to punch a football player in the face after a frustrating interview. UF athletes, if you see a 5-foot-8 white kid in cargo shorts approaching, watch out. He might stab you with the pointy end of his glasses. 
And in dead-ass last place with a piss-poor record of 
39-47 is alligatorSports editor Tom “I have a hole in my heart shaped like Jerry West’s silhouette” Green, who has not handled the NBA lockout well. To cope, Tom is blast-ing hip-hop at inappropriate times, refusing to defend his points and letting Lil’ Wayne sit courtside at Alligator staff meetings.
PICKS , from page 18
  ML  GL  MW  TJ
FURM (+29.5) @ UF UF  UF  UF  UF
NEB (+3.5) @ MICH MICH    MICH    MICH  MICH
PSU (+7) @ OSU OSU  OSU    PSU  OSU
USC (+15) @ ORE USC  USC   ORE  USC
OU @ BAYL (+16) OU  OU  OU  OU
UM @ USF (+1) UM  UM  UM  UM
UNC (+11) @ VT  VT  VT  UNC  VT
VAND @ TENN (+1.5)  TENN  VAND    VAND      TENN
 CJ  MD  KM  TG
FURM (+29.5) @ UF UF     UF  UF  UF
NEB (+3.5) @ MICH NEB  NEB      MICH    MICH
PSU (+7) @ OSU OSU  OSU      OSU  OSU
USC (+15) @ ORE ORE  USC     ORE  ORE
OU @ BAYL (+16) OU  BAYL     OU  OU
UM @ USF (+1) USF  UM  UM  USF
UNC (+11) @ VT UNC  VT  VT  VT
VAND @ TENN (+1.5) TENN  TENN     VAND     VANDTOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Furman may be the smallest opponent on Florida’s 
schedule, but a win Saturday could be the Gators’ big-
gest of the year.
At 5-5 and with a losing record in Southeastern Con-
ference play for the first time in 25 years, there haven’t been many bright spots for Florida this season. However, a win against the Paladins (6-4) at 1 p.m. will secure a bowl game for the Gators.
“For any competitor, you want to be bowl eligible,” de-
fensive tackle Omar Hunter said. “I definitely don’t want to be, my junior year I didn’t make it to a bowl game at the University of Florida. That’s something I don’t want to be a part of.”
Bowl eligibility hasn’t been a concern at Florida since 
Ron Zook’s final season, when the Gators needed one win in their final two games to clinch a bowl berth. That team beat both South Carolina and Florida State to earn a trip to the Peach Bowl.
While Florida’s program has enjoyed immense success 
since Zook left in 2004, including two BCS national cham-pionships, three SEC title game appearances (with two wins) and another BCS bowl game, postseason eligibility has become a legitimate concern in Will Muschamp’s first season.
Players have said not only that a bowl game matters 
to them, but that it would provide a big boost going into next season. 
It would extend the careers of Florida’s seniors by one 
more game, and players have said the extra 15 practices that come with a bowl invitation will help the team, par -
ticularly the younger players. 
The extended practice sessions will give more time for 
a stagnant offense to find its identity.
They will allow a young defense more time to jell and 
perhaps find a way to cure its offside woes and struggles in stopping the run.  
Still, Muschamp said his team isn’t focusing on what a 
win Saturday would mean.
“For me, it’s about playing and coaching better,” Mus-champ said Monday. “If you do that, then things will take care of themselves. We’ve had our opportunities to do that the last four weeks, and we haven’t exactly closed it out.”
If the Gators can close out the Paladins in The Swamp, 
Florida will clinch a bowl berth for the 21st consecutive season and a trip to one of four destinations. 
The Gators will likely receive an invite to either Bir -
mingham, Ala., for the BBVA Compass Bowl on Jan. 7; Nashville, Tenn., for the Music City Bowl on Dec. 30; At-lanta for the Chick-Fil-A Bowl on Dec. 31; or Jacksonville for the Gator Bowl on Jan. 2.
“That’s not one of your top-notch bowls, but at the 
same time it’s still a football game,” wide receiver Frankie Hammond said. 
“I’m excited. We go to the bowl game, it’s not the na-
tional championship, it’s not a big bowl game that you get hyped for, but a bowl game is a bowl game and we’ll get hyped.”
Said Hunter: “We’d love to play in a better bowl, but 
we’ll take what we’re going to get, and we’re going to finish the season out strong.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.3, KICKOFF, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Will Muschamp (front right) and the Gators have struggled to a .500 mark this year. However, they will 
become bowl eligible with a win against Furman on Saturday in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Florida vying for bowl eligibility against FCS opponent Furman
Gators seeking 21st straight postseason berth
“It’s not the national championship, it’s not a 
big bowl game that you get hyped for, but a bowl 
game is a bowl game and we’ll get hyped.”
Frankie Hammond
UF wide receiver