We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 21 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgpage 8
GULFPORT, Miss. (AP) — There was 
a time when not even the president of the 
United States could get Eddie Favre (FAHR’-ve) to wear pants.
Favre lost everything but the clothes he 
was wearing — which included Bermuda shorts — when Hurricane Katrina flattened Mississippi’s Gulf Coast in 2005. He was mayor of Bay St. Louis at the time.
Favre vowed then that he would continue 
wearing shorts instead of long pants until his city was back on its feet. He met visiting President George W. Bush in shorts.
That ended Tuesday — more than five 
years and five months later.
The Sun Herald reports Favre showed up 
at the Harrison County courthouse in long pants. He was testifying as Biloxi’s financial expert in a Gulfport annexation trial.
Favre served as mayor for 20 years, but 
decided not to seek re-election in 2009.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFormer Gulf Coast mayor sheds shorts 5 years after Katrina vow n  The Gators 
picked up a 
commitment from 
Ja’Juan Story (right) 
on National Signing 
Day, as the four-
star wide receiver 
chose Florida over 
Ohio State just 
before signing.
See Story, Page 17.Rain
58/51FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
THE AVENUE 8
CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD 15
SPORTS 17
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida football coach Will Muschamp discusses recruits on National Signing Day and fields questions from 
the media during a press conference held inside Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Wednesday.
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
tjett@alligator.org
Will Muschamp’s imprint is fi-
nally on the Gators.
Seven weeks after becoming Flor -
ida’s head coach, Muschamp signed 
his first recruiting class Wednesday . 
He and his staff hauled in 18 pros-
pects, but Muschamp faced plenty of challenges representing a pro-
gram in transition.
“Recruiting has changed so much 
over the years,” he said. “You’re 
starting to recruit guys when you see guys coming in their sophomore, 
junior seasons. You’re building that 
relationship for two and three years. … We had to re-recruit all of those guys.”
After Muschamp came to Gainesville in mid-December, the 
Gators lost three players who orally 
committed to former coach Urban Meyer. In the last month, however, Muschamp salvaged the class, hold-ing on to the other 14 Meyer com-
mits and landing four new players.
Most notably, UF picked up 
Ft. Lauderdale St. Thomas Aquinas 
four-star cornerback Marcus Roberson, who switched his commitment two 
times in three days.
With Roberson’s signature, Mus-
champ’s inaugural class ranks 14th 
nationally, according to Rivals.com. The recruiting website ranked 
Meyer’s first class 15th in 2005, and 
former coach Ron Zook’s first group was ranked 20th in 2002.Florida’s 2011 class might have 
cracked the top 10 if not for a couple 
of commitments who were seem-
ingly decided in the last week. 
Palm Beach Gardens Dwyer 
High four-star linebacker Curt Mag-
gitt announced Tuesday he would sign with Tennessee. Maggitt took an official visit to Gainesville last weekend and was rumored to favor 
UF before Meyer stepped down.
The Gators also whiffed on Lake 
City Columbia four-star defensive 
tackle Timmy Jernigan, who grew up a Florida fan but ultimately 
joined FSU’s No. 3-ranked class. 
Other potential blockbuster sign-
ings included five-star linebackers 
Stephone Anthony (Wadesboro (N.C.) Anson High) and Curtis 
Grant (Richmond (Va.) Hermitage 
High), who both visited Gainesville in January but signed with Clemson 
and Ohio State, respectively.Muschamp inks first class
Gators land 18 prospects
FootballBy ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested two Gainesville residents Wednesday in 
connection with the murder of 21-year-old Saleha Huuda.
Antonio Drayton, 24, was arrested and charged with first-
degree murder, grand theft, abuse of a dead human body, tam-
pering with physical evidence and willful burning of lands, 
according to a press release released by the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office.
Cassandra Kimbrough, 42, was arrested 
and charged as an accomplice.
Drayton is Huuda’s ex-boyfriend and 
was accused of battering and burglarizing 
her in September. Charges were dropped after Huuda refused to testify . 
Drayton and Kimbrough are accused of 
killing Huuda on Dec. 30 before taking her body into a field off of County Road 225 and 
setting it on fire in an attempt to conceal evidence, said ASO spokesman Art Forgey.
The medical examiner is still determining the official cause 
of death, Forgey said.
Drayton and Kimbrough were arrested following an in-
depth investigation involving numerous interviews, forensic investigation and and an examination of cell phone records.Arrests made in 
student’s killing
Huuda
LOCAL
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
Homelessness has risen by 38 
percent in Alachua County in the 
past year despite receiving more attention from city officials.
According to a study by the 
Alachua County Coalition for the Homeless and Hungry, the num-ber of homeless schoolchildren has also increased to a total of 415.
“That’s unbelievable,” said 
Kent Vann, executive director of St. Francis House. “I think it shows how far people have fallen because of the economy.”
Max Tipping, executive direc-tor of the coalition, said the rise represents a combination of a low 
minimum wage, lack of affordable 
housing and countywide unem-
ployment that hovers around 8 
percent.
“For most people, it’s a slow 
slide,” he said. “By the time you 
hit the streets, you don’t have any-thing left.”Homeless count 
up by 38 percentSEE FOOTBALL, p AgE 18
“I think it shows how 
far people have fallen           
because of the economy.”
Kent Vann
St. Francis House executive directorNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 21 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Mahogany Is ... The Essence of 
You
Today, 6 p.m.
Institute of Black Culture and La CasitaFree hair and makeup con-
sultations and haircuts. 
There will be giveaways and free food.
Vox: Voices for Planned 
Parenthood MeetingToday, 7 p.m.Reitz Union rooms 278 and 279
Vox is an organization that 
is dedicated to supporting everyone’s right to sexual health. Students can come to the general body meeting to-
night and learn how they can 
get involved. From passing out condoms at nightclubs to lobbying the Florida legisla-
ture, Vox is full of  opportu-
nities.
The Kickoff
Friday, 11:45 a.m.
Institute of Black Culture
Learn about upcoming com-munity events and enjoy free food, games, music and op-
portunities to network.
Connecting the Gator Nation 
Wednesday, 5 p.m.
Emerson Hall
This event will provide stu-
dents with a unique oppor -
tunity to build their network by connecting with UF alum-
ni. It will provide them with 
training on getting the most out of networking, tips on how to best market yourself and networking experience 
to build your confidence in 
these types of situations. Space is limited to the first 75 students who RSVP through 
Gator CareerLink. Log in 
to GCL at www.crc.ufl.edu, click on “Events,” se-lect “Workshops” and select RSVP next to “Connecting 
the Gator Nation.” 
Dance Marathon Spring 
RegistrationThrough Today
Help make miracles hap-pen by registering to dance for Dance Marathon 2011. Dancers do not need to be 
registered through or be part 
of an organization to partici-pate in this event. Visit the Dance Marathon website at 
www.floridadm.org to regis-
ter or make a donation.
African Student Union General 
Body Meeting 
Friday, 6:30 p.m.
Orange and BrewLearn more about what is going on in Africa. ASU will 
be talking about Africa’s po-
litical state and focusing on the current situations in the Ivory Coast and Egypt. All U.S. is running a $14 trillion na-
tional debt.
Citing a January report pre-
pared by Pentagon acquisition of-
ficials at Sanders request, the sena-tor said the bulk of the contracts — just over $280 billion — went to 211 companies that had civil judgments against them or settled fraud charges of more than $1 mil-
lion.
During the same period, 30 de-
fense contractors were convicted 
of criminal fraud, but still were awarded $682 million in new work, according to the Pentagon’s report.
Among the contractors listed 
in the report is AEY Inc., a Miami-
based company that received a 
$300 million contract to supply ammunition to Afghan security forces. AEY got the work despite a record of poor performance on other government contracts.
The fraud involved shipment of 
millions of rounds of banned Chi-nese-made military ammunition 
that was repackaged to appear of 
Albanian origin. After nearly $67 million in payments, the Afghan ammunition contract was termi-nated in May 2008. The owner of AEY was sentenced to four years in federal prison after pleading guilty in 2009 to a fraud conspiracy charge.
In the report, defense officials 
listed a series of actions the mili-tary has taken to guard against contractor wrongdoing, including the formation of a working group focused on procurement fraud.
But Sanders said much more 
needs to be done. “It is clear that DOD’s current approach is not 
working and we need far more 
vigorous enforcement to protect taxpayers from massive fraud,” he said.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
STATE
Students injured in school 
bus crash
PENSACOLA — Several stu-
dents were injured when two 
school buses crashed in the Florida Panhandle.
The Florida Highway Patrol 
reports that a bus carrying 12 stu-dents from Pensacola High School and a bus carrying 22 students from Pensacola Christian Acad-emy collided at an intersection Wednesday afternoon. A damaged 
stop sign appeared to be at fault.
At least five students were tak-
en to a nearby hospital with minor 
injuries.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSstudents are encouraged to 
attend.
SG Absentee Ballots
By FridayAbsentee ballots for SG election can be requested 
at www.sg.ufl.edu/elec-
tions. Look under “For the Voter.” The election will be held on Feb. 22 and 23.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with “What’s Happening” in the subject 
line to ebehrman@alliga-
tor.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not ap-
pear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Interior Dept. found in con -
tempt over drilling ban
NEW ORLEANS — A fed-
eral judge who struck down the 
Obama administration’s initial moratorium on deepwater drill-ing in the aftermath of the Gulf 
oil spill is holding the Interior 
Department in civil contempt for what he called its “determined disregard” of his order.
U.S. District Judge Martin 
Feldman ruled Wednesday that several offshore service compa-nies that sued over the tempo-rary drilling ban are entitled to 
have their attorneys’ fees paid by 
the government. 
Feldman didn’t rule on an 
amount.
Feldman chided the depart-
ment for its “dismissive conduct” after he overturned the depart-ment’s decision to halt approval of any new permits for deepwa-
ter projects and suspend drilling 
on 33 exploratory wells.
The department responded to 
Feldman’s June order by issuing a second moratorium that its crit-ics say was virtually identical to the first.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Billions paid to companies 
that defrauded Pentagon
WASHINGTON — Hun-
dreds of defense companies 
that defrauded the U.S. military between 2007 and 2009 still re-ceived $285 billion in contracts 
from the Pentagon during the 
same period, a U.S. senator said Wednesday.
Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., 
called the figures “shocking” and urged the Defense Depart-ment to take more aggressive steps to ensure taxpayer dollars aren’t wasted at a time when the RAIN
58/51RAIN
72/55RAIN
68/41PARTLY
CLOUDY
64/42RAIN
71/50MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
ON CAMPUS
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer 
The Gator Nation really is every-
where — according to the U.S. Peace 
Corps at least. 
In a report released Tuesday , 
UF was listed as having the second-highest number of Peace Corps vol-unteers for a university , jumping three spots from its previous rank-
ing last year.
“UF is a fairly new school to the 
program and to jump up like that 
is pretty exceptional,” said David Leavitt, public affairs specialist for the Peace Corps’ Atlanta regional office. Leavitt said the program usually 
does best with schools that began working with the Peace Corps in the early 1960s.  Newer programs like UF’s don’t usually rank as high, he said.
UF placed second in the catego-
ry for universities with more than 15,000 undergraduate students. It has 97 undergraduate alumni serv-
ing in the Corps, a number bested 
only by the University of Colorado at Boulder in its category with 117 volunteers.
The University of Michigan was 
hot on UF’s heels with 94 former stu-dents in the Corps. 
UF also claimed the second-place spot for the graduate school category with 20 graduate alumni volunteers.  The University of Washington took first place with 21 alumni.
Leavitt attributes part of UF’s 
success in increasing the number of undergraduate alumni volunteers from 79 to 97 in the last year to cam-pus recruiter Amy Panikowski, who is also pursuing a Ph.D. in geogra-phy at UF.
Her use of Facebook to connect 
with potential and current volun-teers has been widely successful, and many recruitment programs are modeling their social network-ing methods after hers, Leavitt said. UF was the first school to develop such a thorough social networking strategy.
“Thank God for Facebook,” Pan-
ikowski said. “I know that sounds kind of goofy…but what it’s really done for us is [it’s] created connec-tions to other volunteers when they’re overseas.”
When she arrived at UF in 2005 
to pursue a master’s degree in ge-ography , Panikowski became the campus Peace Corps recruiter for a 
graduate assistantship.
She was a Peace Corps volunteer 
in Malawi before she came to UF as 
a graduate student, and the UF pro-gram was rebuilding itself when she became a recruiter.
A few years later, UF launched 
itself to the fifth-place spot in its un-dergraduate category for the 2010 
rankings. When UF placed fifth, 
Panikowski was content and didn’t think the school would advance much higher. 
UF ranks second in number of Peace Corps volunteers
n THE APPEAL WILL GO BEFORE THE CITY 
COMMISSION TODAY.
By HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer 
Michael Bowe is a father. He has put six daughters through 
school; the last three were UF graduates. Even 3,000-plus miles 
away in New York, he is there for them.
At a City Commission meeting today , he and his family 
will appeal a ruling that allows their neighbor, Bruce Baber, to 
watch dogs and make a profit for walking them. Or, as Bowe put it, run a business in a residential neighborhood. 
“We didn’t want to make a big issue out of it,” he said. “We 
just want to appeal it.”
The Bowe family has owned the house at 1723 NW Seventh 
Ave. since 2005, and three of his daughters have resided there 
since then while attending UF. 
Kristen, a graduate student, is the last daugh-
ter and lives there with a roommate. Bowe 
bought the house for his daughters because he 
was told it was in a safe neighborhood. 
“People view us as outsiders, but we own the home,” he 
said.
Bowe said none of his family members noticed Baber’s dogs next door when they moved in.
After a few years, he said his daughters would call him and 
complain about the noise, smell and even fleas from the eight to 
12 dogs Baber watched at certain times. He said he let it all slide 
until he heard a meeting was to be held concerning whether Baber could run the business. He decided to take matters into his own hands and appeal for his family.
But it isn’t anything personal, he said. Bowe and his family 
are not against Baber; they just want the law upheld. 
“Our issue is very simple,” he said. “Because this is the code, 
we want it to be enforced.”
For now, he just wants a safe, quiet place for his daughter to 
live as she finishes graduate school. Family challenging dogwalker just wants law enforced
NewsLocal“UF is a fairly new school 
to the program and to 
jump up like that is pretty         
exceptional.”
David Leavitt
public affairs specialist for the 
Peace Corps’ Atlanta regional office4, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011
By KAT BEIN
Alligator Staff Writer 
Police invoked the Baker Act on a 74-year-old man Tuesday 
after he fired a round from his gun when his 29-year-old room-
mate told him he wanted to move out.
Ernest Chapman, of 8720 NW 13th St., was already deal-
ing with personal medical issues, according to Sgt. Chuck 
Reddick of the Gainesville Police Department. His anger was 
compounded when his roommate told him he wanted to leave, he said.
During the argument, Chapman grabbed his handgun and 
told his roommate the issue was not worth dying over. He then 
fired off a round away from his roommate, Red-dick said.
Rather than taking Chapman to jail, police de-
cided to enact the Baker Act, Reddick said.
The Baker Act allows mental health officials, judges and law 
enforcement to place those deemed to be in a mental state con-sidered harmful to themselves or others under mental health evaluation for up to 72 hours. Those who are committed under the Baker Act do not need to give their consent. 
According to Reddick, Chapman is charged with one count 
of aggravated assault, but it is up to the State Attorney’s Office whether he will be brought to court on the charges.Police detain man 
after gun goes offACADEMICS
By TAEYEON HONG
Alligator Contributing Writer
In front of Library West, tall 
displays sit in a circle of 12 and 
depict the words, “Slaughtered.  Mutilated.  Imprisoned.”
Nearby, dozens of students 
enjoy Hare Krishna lunches, fill-
ing the air with chatter.
The Animal Liberation ex-
hibit, which compares current 
animal abuse with historical hu-
man abuse, is courtesy of peta2, 
a youth animal rights group founded in 2002.
The group was brought to 
campus by the Animal Activists of Alachua.
Images depicting scenes of 
female genital mutilation stand next to black-and-white photos of animals undergoing experi-
mentation.
“We’re not saying that they’re 
equivalent,” said Matt Binder, a 
UF sophomore who is a member 
of the Animal Activists of Ala-chua. 
“It’s saying that the reasons we 
use to subjugate humans in the past are the same reasons we’re 
using to subjugate and harm ani-mals currently.”
Some students walk past the 
exhibit without a glance. 
Some stop momentarily to 
pause and stare. 
Some take a second look and 
leave in curiosity.
“It’s just crazy what people do 
to one another and to animals,” 
said UF student Leland Taylor, 
who stopped for a moment to view the displays. Taylor couldn’t fathom that 
kind of treatment. 
“I don’t know why. For mon-
ey? Control? I don’t know,” Tay-lor said.
Student Shanna-Kay Turner 
found the display images unset-
tling.
“I know they’re trying to get 
attention for the issue and raise 
awareness, but the pictures put 
people off most of the time,” 
Turner said.
Chelsea Little, the Liberation 
project coordinator for peta2, the world’s largest youth animal 
rights group.
Little said she takes the proj-
ect around the U.S. and Canada 
to different college campuses to 
increase student involvement in 
animal rights cause.
She also helps to promote 
student animal rights activism 
groups like the Animal Activists 
of Alachua.
The exhibit will remain on dis-
play on the Plaza of the Americas through today.
It will run from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m.Display protests for animal’s rights
“It’s just crazy what people 
do to one another and 
to animals. I don’t know 
why. For money? Control?           
I don’t know.”
Leland Taylor
UF studentPeta2 sponsors the display
NewsLocalBy ALEXANDRIA UGARTE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Taking practice tests is more beneficial than drawing 
diagrams and late-night cram sessions, according to a new 
study.
The Purdue University study revealed taking tests helps 
people learn better than using other forms of studying.
The experiment, which involved 200 college students, 
was done in two parts; the second part consisted of a group creating concept diagrams and a group taking retrieval 
practice tests. Although the students who drew diagrams 
included more detail about the text than the students who wrote short essays, the latter did much better when evalu-
ated a week later.
The study concluded that retrieval practice, such as tak-ing a test, enhances learning.
Ira Fischler, a retired psychology professor at UF and 
expert in human memory, agreed. 
“When you take a test, you are forc-
ing yourself to do things you are going to 
need to do later in order to retrieve and 
recall the material,” Fischler said. “This is the particular advantage of taking a 
test.”
UF sophomore Alexandra Gonzalez 
said practice tests aided in her under -
standing and helped her get an A in mi-
croeconomics.
“I mostly took hours of practice tests,” she said. “By the 
last test, I was very comfortable with the concepts and the kinds of questions asked.”UF senior Chris Peralta said he considers taking a prac-
tice test only if he doesn’t understand the material.
“I’m skeptical of practice tests,” he said. “In my opin-
ion, they only prepare you for a test and don’t help you to actually learn the material.”
TutoringZone agreed with the research’s conclusion 
that tests help students learn.
“We provide students with practice tests because that 
is one of the most effective ways of preparing them for the 
material they’re going to see both on their current exams 
and in the future,” said Alek Hartzog, the building man-
ager and operations director at the Gainesville TZ.
According to Hartzog, TZ students can’t get enough of 
the practice tests.
“Our feedback is always, ‘more, more, more,’” he said.Research shows practice tests more useful than studyingn STUDENTS CAN VOTE 
ONLINE FOR WHO THEY WANT TO PERFORM.
By ALEXANDRA FRANK
Alligator Contributing Writer
In an effort to increase student 
turnout at Gator Growl, students 
have the opportunity to complete 
a survey allowing them to submit suggestions and vote on artists and performers they wish to see perform. 
The survey is now open to 
the public and can be accessed at www.surveymonkey.com/s/ Ga-
torGrowl2011.
It will close at the end of Feb-
ruary. 
Performers on the survey in-
clude:Growl producers want 
student input on acts
Comedians:
Chelsea Handler
Kevin James
Seth Meyers
Andy Samberg
Zach Galifianakis
Joel McHale
Jimmy Fallon
Conan O’Brien
Musical performers:
Zac Brown Band
Goo Goo DollsKings of Leon
Bruno Mars
Katy Perry
Maroon 5
Corey SmithAlisa Moody / Alligator
Handle with Care
Anne Marie Mattison, the founder of Operation CarePak, folds children’s clothing to send to 
members of the Florida Army National Guard’s Special Forces group. She started the pro-gram last year in memory of two Santa Fe College students who died in Iraq in 2003.
Fischler
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
By CHRISTOPHER GLIDDEN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A prominent pastor and best-selling 
author and speaker will give advice 
and talk about his perspective on love in a daylong conference Saturday.
Mark Driscoll, the founding pastor 
of Mars Hill Church in Seattle, Wash., is scheduled to speak at the Phillips Cen-ter for the Performing Arts to discuss topics regarding love, marriage, dating and sexuality from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Driscoll has been featured in Time 
magazine, USA Today, The New York Times, CNN and NPR. He has more than 4 million downloads on YouTube 
and an iPhone app downloaded 37,000 
times. He is also a contributing blogger for the Washington Post.
Ryan Delk, a UF sophomore in 
charge of marketing for the event, said he hopes Driscoll’s message will have a lasting effect on the audience.
“I want hundreds to leave it with a new view on their relationships,” Delk said. “Then, 10 years down the road, 
you’ll have hundreds of families affect-
ed for the better and the way they were intended to be.”
Although Saturday’s event is cen-
tered on biblical values, Delk said the event is open to individuals of any faith who are 16 and older.
The event will consist of three ses-
sions divided by intermissions and a 
one hour lunch break. Guests are free 
to come and go as they 
please.
Driscoll’s church, Mars 
Hill, was labeled the second most innovative 
church in the U.S. by Outreach Maga-zine. According to its website, the larg-est demographic of Mars Hill Church is 
young, single men, statistically the least 
likely group to attend church.
Tickets are $25 for students and $30 
for adults. They can be purchased at Ticketmaster.com.Pastor to discuss loveLOCAL
By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office is 
cracking down on the sale of a bath salt that 
has been commonly misused as a drug, lead-ing some to compare its effects to those asso-ciated with crystal methamphetamine.
Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi 
passed an emergency measure banning the sale of bath salts containing the drug meth-ylenedioxypyrovalerone, according to a press release issued by the  ASO.
The salts are crushed and snorted by users 
and are known to cause increased heart rate, anxiety fits, delusions and nosebleeds. They also can cause more serious side effects such 
as muscle spasms, kidney failure, seizures, 
hallucinations, loss of bowel control, severe paranoia and death.
“The way these were marketed was as 
a regular bath salt, but the wink-wink us-age was to be snorted,” said ASO spokes-man Sgt. Todd Kelly. “The danger is the reaction people have when they ingest these things is potentially life-threatening.”  
The drugs, which the release said are often sold in specialty smoke shops over the Inter -
net and in convenience stores, are sold in 220 mg, 250 mg and 500 mg packages. 
The drug is significantly more expensive 
than the average bath salt — a half-gram package of “Bolivian Bath” costs about $40. 
Shops selling the salts have a two-week 
grace period to return the bath salts to the manufacturer or destroy them. After the deadline, shop owners can be charged with a 
third-degree felony . 
The ban will last for 90 days, Kelly said, 
and the Florida legislature will begin working 
to make it permanent.Sheriff’s office orders 
bath salts off shelves
OnCampu s “The danger is the reaction 
people have when they ingest 
these things is potentially life-
threatening.”
Sergeant Todd Kelly
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office spokesmanThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Should you be able to purchase liquor at any hour? 29% YES71% NO
105 TOTAL VOTESWednesday’s question: Do you prefer cats over dogs?
Timing Isn’t Everything
Some states and cities 
are considering allow-ing  the sale of liquor 
on Sundays for the sake of higher tax revenue. 
While the sales are al-
lowed in most states, Sun-
day-specific restrictions still 
exist in many areas such as Alachua County.
We’re confused why the 
governments didn’t look 
at these laws earlier in our 
economic slump. 
After all, what should 
prevent Americans from 
having a drink on Sun-
days? 
The only reason that 
comes to our minds is the association with the 
Christian holy day, which 
doesn’t hold any water in a country so against having a state religion. 
Don’t get us wrong, we’d 
still judge someone buying whiskey at 7 a.m. no matter the day of the week. 
But it’s a personal choice. 
We can buy nearly any-
thing else at any time of the 
day, as we’ve seen on the 
college student’s requisite 3 a.m. Walmart runs. 
Want coffee in the eve-
ning? Get it. 
Have a hankering for ice 
cream before breakfast? All you need is money, a car and a store that’s open be-
fore the sun’s up.
We shouldn’t keep buy-
ing alcohol at certain times 
and days illegal  because 
some people don’t agree 
with the timing of a pur -
chase. 
Also, these rules keep 
money out of the pockets of 
liquor store owners — of-
ten small businesses — and away from the local govern-ments, which could use the 
tax revenue to fund public 
resources. 
We may be missing a 
cash cow: Alcohol’s more popular during a recession.New Paper
Future uncertain for 
News Corp iPad app 
We have a loyal readership, but our newspaper is one of few thriving in paper form. As shar -
ing information online becomes more popular, 
journalists continue scratching their heads and wondering how their organizations can survive in a world with free instant information. Some have websites readers subscribe to for a fee, but the results have varied. 
Rupert Murdoch unveiled his plans to solve that prob-
lem Wednesday. News Corp’s newspaper for the iPad, the Daily, embraces new technology but keeps the feel of a tra-ditional paper, a combination that may equal success. The page layouts and subscription models draw from news-
paper tradition, allowing people to keep one foot in the 
past, but the app also provides video with a touchscreen interface, which points to a fresh news delivery method. 
Technological innovations usually are rooted in the past 
— today’s keyboards are  similar to those on old typewrit-ers — because it makes customers more comfortable dur -
ing the switch. What we’re questioning is our generation’s tendency to favor fast news over accurate information. The typical journalism hierarchy, with editors vetting a story 
before publishing, may be on its way out. We’re curious to 
see how the Daily will handle this give and take.
The media are hurling spaghetti at the wall, and we’re 
waiting to see what sticks.
Bombs more important than our brains
In 107 days, the federal government spent as much money on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq as it did on education. Granted, a large share of education 
funding comes from state and local sources, but if the Republicans have their way, even less money will go to-wards education.
To put it simply, the funding for education is being 
assaulted on all fronts. Just last week, Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky proposed a sweeping $500 billion reduction in federal spending. Although I thoroughly commend the senator for proposing any kind of action, the truth is his cuts are overwhelmingly from smaller 
“discretionary” portions of the budget. He proposed an 
83 percent reduction in the Department of Education. Paul claimed that department’s funding increased 80 percent since 2001. In his proposal, he also said that mili-
tary spending rose 120 percent during the same period or 
by an astounding 67 percent if the costs of the two wars are not included. Yet the department would receive only a miniscule 6.5 percent reduction. Paul’s rationale for this large disparity in cuts was that the “state and local gov-
ernments, parents and teachers are far better equipped to 
meet the needs of their students than this red-tape-laden department, which benefits teachers unions more than pupils.” 
Paul’s proposal would make a lot of sense if the state 
and local municipalities were indeed “better equipped” to meet their students’ needs. The reality is that they simply are not; they are in their worst fiscal shape of the last 70 years. As the Recovery Act money begins to stop 
coming in, 44 states and D.C. are facing budget shortfalls 
totaling $125 billion for the 2012 fiscal year, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Naturally, the first funding the states cut is for education. Thirty-four states have imposed cuts on K-12 edu-
cation, and 43 states have made 
cuts in funding for higher education. As a student at the 
University of Florida, you may have seen this firsthand, as tuition increased 15 percent during the 2009-2010 year 
and went up another 15 percent this year. Additionally, 
our Bright Futures scholarships have been capped to a certain dollar amount per credit hour. The combination of these two effects has slammed less privileged students and those without prepaid college funds immensely. It’s 
clear through the numbers that Paul and his party are off 
the mark when it comes to reality. Any additional cuts in the education budget effectively would kill the already anemic state of higher education in this country. 
It’s obvious, however, what Paul and his colleagues 
do value: the mammoth amount of money directed to-ward defense spending. I can understand that national defense is one of the top priorities of the federal govern-ment. However, I fail to see how Paul ignored the Pen-
tagon’s own proposal to shed $100 billion in favor of a 
more muted cut of $47 billion. 
Maybe the lesson to be learned is that people who 
receive the funding for higher education tend to vote at 
levels significantly less than those of other demograph-
ics. This creates a situation where the best and brightest in America are also the ones who have the fewest oppor -
tunities to attain a higher education and become a mem-ber of the highly skilled workforce starved for doctors, 
nurses, teachers and engineers.
Chad Mohammed is a second-year chemical engineering 
student. His column appears on Thursdays.Chad Mohammed
letters@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
It’s a new year, meaning that while Americans are work-
ing out what their taxes are, a plethora of government of-fices are busy trying to make estimates of budget figures 
for both 2010 and 2011. One figure, however, already stands out from the crowd based on its sheer magnitude. The figure 
was released last Wednesday from the Congressional Budget 
Office, which now estimates that the 2010 budget deficit is a whopping $1.5 trillion.
One and a half trillion dollars. I’d wager that most can’t 
even imagine that much money, which is probably why vari-ous commentators have resorted to conceptualizing the deficit with silly calculations about how many times the sum could wrap around the Earth, how many miles it could stretch into space or how many years it would take to print the necessary 
bills on an old-fashioned printing press.
Why try to visualize the quantity of individual bills in $1.5 
trillion when it would be far more instructive to simply com-
pare these figures to other current and historical figures? We engage in comparison every day to understand the value of more familiar numbers.
Continuing with the CBO example further illuminates the 
importance of putting numbers in context. The media is abuzz with news of the deficit, and the impressive $1.5 trillion figure 
has made it into more than a couple of headlines. The hype is driven largely by the fact that if this esti-
mate pans out, it will be the largest bud-get deficit in America’s history. That’s impressive, until you consider that the 
budget deficit in 2009 was a close runner-up with $1.4 trillion. 
$1.5 trillion no longer seems like a huge jump. Just by introduc-
ing one other point of reference, we can turn these incompre-hensible numbers into something ordinary.
I understand sometimes the media need to exaggerate the 
magnitude of some stories to attract readers. What is truly upsetting about the CBO case is that news outlets shouldn’t have to resort to scaring readers with big numbers when there is actually real news to report. What’s newsworthy is not the current estimate of the budget deficit but rather that the CBO’s 
estimate actually increased by about $414 billion since August 
2010. That’s a 38 percent increase in a matter of four or five months, which is particularly troublesome in a fiscal year when many hoped the budget deficit would begin declining back to pre-recession levels, when the deficit used to hover around $200 billion. Sadly , though, this $414 billion figure appears in only a few of the reports I have read.
Enough with the CBO and the media — let’s look to politics 
for another example of how the absence of context can influ-
ence our perceptions of large figures. Also on Wednesday, the House voted to eliminate the Presidential Election Campaign 
Fund, which uses $3 from the federal taxes of taxpayers who choose to opt into the fund to help provide public support for elections. Many involved are lauding the vote as the first in a series of major budget cuts, as it’s estimated that eliminating the fund will save the government $617 million over the next 10 years. I would draw your attention to the word “million” there. Approximating that the savings are distributed evenly among 
the 10 years represented, this vote reduces the yearly budget 
deficit by a mere 0.004 percent. The Republican Party is going to have to do a little better than this if it wants to impress me.
Of course, let’s not forget that when President Barack 
Obama first took office in 2009, he promised to make a whop-ping $100 million in budget cuts in his first 90 days. Exaggerat-ing the value of numbers isn’t a partisan issue.
The bottom line is that if Americans want to stay informed 
about which budget numbers warrant fear or awe and which 
are mere publicity stunts, it’s going to require a little research 
and calculation. Given how many protests I observed in 2010 against “big government” and government spending, I hope to see the same level of scrutiny applied with the newly elected officials in 2011. Knowing the context is the difference between a mountain and a molehill.
The Dartmouth, Dartmouth College
Visualizing national debt useless without financial contextUWire
Chris Talano
UWire
Egypt’s protests have gained worldwide 
attention and grown increasingly vio-lent and unstable.
Attempts have been made to shut down 
the uprising, using everything from rubber 
bullets to tear gas and eventually live ammu-
nition. This resulted in some fatalities and, as a result, intensified the rioting.
The situation became extreme, and the 
Egyptian government shut off the Internet and mobile services for the entire country.
Considering the important role the Inter -
net plays in getting footage out, this may have been a wise move. But there are other reasons for the Internet shutdown besides a few You-Tube videos. 
All the information being leaked caused the 
government to panic. Social media sites such as Twitter and Facebook were used to rally the 
protesters and gained attention from the me-
dia. A Facebook page plotting the protest had 80,000 fans, and Twitter posts from various protesters flooded the website.
Facebook and Twitter are known for con-
necting the world simply , easily and freely . These two sites allow people to keep in touch and share stories. The social media giants also present the lives of its users uncensored.Twitter is important 
as a collection of the random thoughts and blurbs of millions of 
people. And by keeping things simple —   in 
approximately 140 characters — their thoughts 
are straight to the point.
These tools have fueled the revolution by 
making communication between the protest-ers easy . The rest of the world was also kept in the loop through these technological means.
The Egyptian government did its best to 
oppress the rights of the people by isolating them from the world. But such actions only strengthened Egyptians’ will to fight for what they believe in.
Some may abuse the powers of social me-
dia, but in the hands of the right people — or in this case, angry protesters — regular people 
can become a force to be reckoned with. The 
riots are a testament to this.
Whether they achieve what they want, they 
will go down in history not only for lasting so long under such an overwhelming opposition but also for becoming one of the first protests to harness the power of social connection over the Internet.
 The Daily Cougar, U. Houston via UWIRE
Protesters use Facebook, Twitter to effect social changesUWire
Ian Everett
UWiretheAvenue         thursday, february 3, 2011
Max Reed / Alligator Staffa turn underground
Jessica Uelsman shows an assortment of paintings in the registration room at the Harn Museum. Every 
semester, she gives a private staff tour to reveal stowed-away artwork that never makes it to the frontlines.
 The Harn’s website, www.harn.ufl.edu, provides a photo archive powered by eMuseum, and  guests can 
access all the available artwork and work that is no longer part of the museum’s supply. 
Harn storage tour reveals art treasure trove
BY BRITTANY BRAVE
avenue writer
Everything in these rooms is controlled. The cli-
mate is set at 70 degrees Fahrenheit, the humidity 
level does not exceed 50 percent, and everything 
has a specific identification. 
In case of an emergency — or worse, an acci-
dent — the names of those who entered the room are posted on a list hanging next to the door.
It’s hard to tell what’s more intricate and pre -
meditated: the artwork itself or the mechanisms used to hoist and protect it.
“And again, please don’t touch anything,” said 
Jessica Uelsmann, associate registrar for The Harn Museum of Art, and host of an exclusive tour of two of the museum’s four storage rooms last week.
The Harn is preparing for the 2012 opening of 
the David A. Cofrin Asian Art Wing, which will relo-cate the museum’s extensive compilation of Asian art and provide additional space for its growing collections. 
The museum houses about 8,000 objects, but 
less than 10 percent of the artwork is visible to the public, Uelsmann said. The rest is in storage, where only a few drawers are empty.
“I still find things I haven’t seen before,” she 
said. 
A private staff tour is held every semester to 
present the unseen side of the museum, includ-ing pieces that never make it to the museum’s 
displays. 
Two of the storerooms are off-limit and desig-
nated for art processing and sculptural storage. 
With murals hanging from the ceiling, stacks of professional portfolios and ceramic pieces, Uels-mann said the key is staying organized because things get muddled when exhibitions rotate.  
The new wing will increase conservation space 
available for certain works and create larger areas 
for display.  However, much is tucked away for the 
artwork’s well-being. For example, some photo -
graphs are sensitive to light, so they must reside 
in the dark. 
As associate registrar for 
the past two years, Uelsmann has managed textiles, sculp-tures and prints in the base -
ment storage rooms, and mini-
mizing risk and damage to the 
artwork is her first priority. 
Two years ago, Uelsmann said the Harn re -
ceived a grant that allowed the museum to double the amount of its storage furniture. Much of the art’s furnishings begin in the museum wood shop, as the registrar and preparation departments also customize and handcraft mounts and mantles to safely showcase the pieces. 
Tami Wroath, the Harn’s director of marketing 
and public relations, said curators are responsible for putting together the museum’s eight galleries 
and five collection areas — African Art, Asian Art, 
Contemporary Art, Modern Art and Photography — all of which 90,000 visitors see every year. 
Wroath said the staff is always looking to add 
new art, and the collections are constantly rotat-ing. She considers expansion the biggest change the museum has undergone recently.
“I don’t know if it’s a goal to have it [art] all on 
displays,” she said. “We pick pieces that will con-
nect to the collections and connect to our view -
ers.”
The museum’s newest exhibition, Africa Inter -
weave: Textile Diasporas, is slated to launch Feb. 
8. The exhibition is unique because all the textiles and garments to be shown are directly pulled from the museum’s storage rooms.
The showing includes five newly commissioned 
pieces, prepared with the help of four UF students. 
Visitors can view the holdings through May 8, but 
those interested in seeing more of what the Harn has to offer can view collections online at www.harn.ufl.edu.
Wroath said the Harn’s main goal is to educate 
the public. 
Through the Internet gallery, programs and in-
sider tours, the museum welcomes its services to the UF community and abroad. 
Wroath said: “We don’t want to seem like a 
stuffy art program. This is for everyone.”List
by LAUREN GOLDREAD: Pictures of You by Caroline 
Leavitt
Leavitt narrates the lives of three main characters and their struggles as they try to cope with the loss after a car accident. Isabelle, a survivor, develops a relationship with the grieving family, creating a new bond in the midst of destruction. 
WATCH: Super Bowl’s Greatest Com-
mercials 2011 special on CBS, Friday at 9 p.m.The only thing better than watching the Su-per Bowl is watching its commercials. Check out this CBS special for the best commercials of the last 44 years.
 
SEE: The Roommate
If you thought your Jennings Hall roommate from freshman year was bad, think again. Rebecca (Leighton Meester) and Sara (Min-ka Kelly) become friends and roommates in  college, but soon a dark and twisted obses-sion emerges.
LISTEN:  Coming Home by Diddy-Dirty 
Money & Skylar GreyFrom Puff Daddy to P . Diddy, Diddy is back with another single. He’s coming home to our playlists with another jam about what makes a house a home. Another day, an-other dawn, another Diddy.TheONLINE:PG 9: Get ready for Superbowl 
Sunday with these Avenue tips.
PG 10: AMPED with UF soccer 
player Sarah ChapmanPG 11: Check out a fiery 
new restaurant in downtown 
Gainesville.
PG 12: Preview local artist Rob-
ert Ritter’s exhibition.INSIDE: 
If you’re planning on shopping 
for a little black dress (need a 
new Valentine’s Day ensemble?), 
check out our tips for picking the right one for your figure and 
style.
Learn more about Free Energy’s 
trend-defying sound before the 
band hits Common Grounds on Tuesday.
For more, check out www.alliga-
tor.org/the_avenue.thursday, february 3, 2011  u ALLIGATOR, 9
superbowl Is that a gun, or are you just happy to see me?  
  By TYLER FRANCISCHINE
 avenue contributing writer
   With a gun in hand, Dirty Harry 
famously said, “Go ahead, make my 
day.” For me, holding a gun pretty 
much ruined my day.
  I thought my ﬁ  rst trip to Harry Beck-
with Gun Dealer and Indoor Pistol Range in Micanopy would be a plea-
surable experience, and I would walk away feeling like a badass. Instead, holding that cold, heartless Walther P22 .22-caliber semiautomatic pistol 
only made my anxiety level soar.
  Last Thursday afternoon, my friend 
Jackie, who is a seasoned shooter and 
enjoys visiting the gun range with her 
dad, accompanied me to  Micanopy. 
Before leaving, she attempted to dress me properly. Apparently, I needed to cover up, or I’d risk getting hit with used bullet shells as they popped out 
with each shot. I took off my ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  ops 
and put on my grubby blue Vans. I put on a sweater over my tank top. It had been a few days since I washed any of my pants, so I kept my jean shorts on.
  The ﬁ  rst person we saw upon arriv-
ing at the range had a striking resem-blance to Captain Ahab, or how I’d al-
ways imagined he would look. He had 
tough, tan skin and an impressive white 
beard. He wore a denim shirt with the 
top buttons undone, and a rope slung 
around his neck held what appeared 
to be a small knife close to his heart. 
This old grizzly bear walked purpose-fully through the parking lot, from the gun store to the indoor range.
  The low-ceiling range building 
smelled like a cross between a skating rink and a barn full of hay. Wafts of old men’s feet mixed with the otherwise pleasant aroma of gunpowder. The walls were made of unﬁ  nished brick, and aisles of merchandise cluttered 
the space.
  A young man working at the coun-
ter assisted us with the proper paper-
work. We signed a waiver  that included our promise to abstain from rapid- ﬁ  re, quick-drawing or hip-shooting. 
  Not a problem, sir.
  The next step was getting our eyes 
and ears  protection, and of course, our pistol. The employee attempted 
to give me a tutorial, but I might as 
well have had the ears protection on 
because I couldn’t retain anything he 
was telling me. 
  M a g a z i n e s , 
huh? Yes, I read 
them.
  The range itself 
consisted of a doz-
en or so partitions, 
each with a counter to place your gun 
and ammunition on, and a target. We opted for the cheapest standard tar-gets, even though I really wanted the 
one featuring a skeleton wearing a ski 
mask and wielding a butcher knife.
  The employee continued his tutori-
al, and I learned, like in every other life situation, that shooting a gun would be more confusing because I’m left-handed. Once I ﬁ  nally got my hands 
wrapped around the weapon properly, 
I was told I was ready to shoot.
  My ear protection only ampliﬁ  ed 
my pounding heart, and I had to con-centrate on breathing. The sounds of 
other people’s shots made me jump, 
and I turned back to Jackie to whine. “I 
don’t want to do this anymore,” I said.
  “Just do it. You’ll be ﬁ  ne,” she said. 
Easy for her to say. This wasn’t her ﬁ  rst 
rodeo.
  I closed my right eye to focus on the 
target, and I exhaled as I pressed the trigger. That’s a tip I learned from an old episode of “Keeping Up with the Kardashians,” if you’re wondering.
  The sound of the shot made me 
gasp, and I waited for that giddy, jubi-
lant feeling to wash over me. Nothing. 
Maybe I lacked the killer instinct. I tried to shoot some more, but every time I pressed the trigger, I had a small heart attack.
  After ﬁ  ve or six shots, I had to walk 
away. I wiped my clammy hands on my shorts and passed the gun to Jackie. I wondered how people deal with the realization that they are holding some-thing that could kill someone. It wasn’t 
a pleasant feeling, and it was too heavy 
for me to contemplate further.
  With my wallet $50 lighter, I carried 
our targets back to my car. Mine con-tained a handful of holes near the tar-
get’s neck. Jackie’s was littered with 
shots in the “kill zone.” We ﬁ  gured it’d 
be best to leave the used targets in my 
backseat —  that way, if anyone tried 
to steal my impressive CD collection, 
they’d think twice.
  As we were passing through Paynes 
Prairie on our way back to Gainesville, 
an eagle ﬂ  ew over U.S. Highway 441 and right in front of my Oldsmobile. How appropriate to witness the ﬂ  ight of this national treasure, I thought, 
considering we’d spent the afternoon 
enjoying America’s favorite pasttime.
  I looked at Jackie. “God Bless 
America,” I said. 
Superbowl XLV: What to know, how to celebrate 
  BY EUGENIO TORRENS
 avenue contributing writer
 
  With this weekend’s festivities en route, 
let’s ask the question on everybody’s mind: 
When’s the Monday after the Super Bowl go-ing to become a national holiday?
  Seriously. Every Super Bowl is full of 
spectators getting drunk and eating while watching the big game. Yours truly is no ex-ception.
  Sunday’s Super Bowl, featuring the Pitts-
burgh Steelers and Green Bay Packers, ﬁ  g-ures to be a bit more stylish. Both franchises are renowned for their enthusiastic and de-voted fan bases, who travel and cheer no matter how the teams are doing.
  With the stage set in Arlington, Texas, Su-
per Bowl XLV will be well represented in all tints of black, green and yellow.  
  Assuming you’ll be in Gainesville and re-
gretfully going to class the next day, here are some ways to make sure you end the NFL season on top.
  Hit up midtown or downtown
With the four-hour-plus event set for kickoff 
at 6:30 p.m., the bars will be closing just as 
the clock runs out. A suggestion is Mother’s Pub &  Grill, 1017 W. University Ave., which has a sports-friendly environment and plen-ty of TVs, including a projector and a large screen in the back room.  Bring out the chips, dip and cheese … lots 
of cheese 
  If you’re throwing the viewing party in-
stead of watching it, be sure to have plenty to eat and drink. Packers fans, affectionately known as “cheeseheads” because of Wis-consin cheese, should be treated to what they love. As for Steelers fans, if you can’t grab a case of Steel City beer, brewed only in Pittsburgh, try to splurge on something bet-
ter than a case of “Natty.” 
  Don’t skimp on the screen
  House-party throwers, I realize we’re in 
tough times. But do try to have something visually pleasing for the game. You can’t fully appreciate Pittsburgh safety Troy Polamalu’s bone-crushing hits or Packers quarterback 
Aaron Rodgers’ pinpoint passes on a dinky 
13-inch set. 
  If there’s ever an appropriate time to 
rent a quality TV, now’s it. And to do those hilarious, million-dollar commercials justice, go 30-plus inches on the screen if you can.Keep your mouth in the gutter
  Whoever you root for and wherever you’re 
watching, make sure the trash talking is ob-
noxious, if not profane. Cherish it. Pro foot-
ball goes dormant for the foreseeable future after Sunday. And try to appreciate the irony of Steelers fans waving their notorious “Ter-rible Towels,” manufactured in, of course, Wisconsin. 
A ﬁ  rst-person account of ﬁ  ring a gun for the ﬁ  rst time
BY EUGENIO TORRENS
avenue contributing writer 
Whether it’s before sleep, prac-
tice or a soccer match, UF midfield-
er Sarah Chapman loves her music. 
In fact, she has more than 5,000 songs in her iTunes library. 
Chapman loves music so much, 
she even makes warmup CDs for 
her teammates, which have re -
ceived such rave reviews that the 
freshmen end up taking them — a no-no Chapman has to teach rook -
ies, she said. Recently at practice, Chapman sat down with the Avenue 
and shared a fraction of her favor -
ites.
“Hey, Soul Sister” by Train  
“As soon as it came out — I found it out early, too — I was like, ‘I am in 
love with this song.’ I love the lyrics. I love the beat. This is a song — if I’m in a bad mood, a good mood, any kind of mood I’m in — I will still 
smile.”
“Somewhere Only We Know” by 
Keane
“You get away from everything 
else, if you’re having issues with a relationship or anything. It’s a spe -
cial song — a good memory from 
high school.”
“Marry You” by Bruno Mars  
“Everyone says he’s the new Mi-chael Jackson, and I love Michael Jackson. I love Bruno Mars. I always 
sing to this song whenever it’s on or 
when it’s on my iPod.”
“Whip My Hair” by Willow Smith  
“She’s brilliant. It’s such a good pump-up song. I’m always in my car 
jamming to it.”
“Toxic” by Britney Spears  
“I’ve always been a fan of her, even 
though how crazy she is. You gotta 
love her. ‘Toxic’ was my first ring 
tone.”
“Brown-Eyed Girl” by Van Morrison  
“I was the little kid that loved this song because I had brown eyes. 
That’s my favorite oldies.”
“Wavin’ Flag” by K’NAAN
“That song I always listen to 
before a game. I just love how the beginning starts. It really calms me down. The beat of the drums in that song really get me going.”
“Summer Girl” by Jessica Andrews  
“I like country, but I like old country. In high school, every time we went away on a bus, I would scream this song — the whole song.”
“Don’t Stop Me Now” by Queen  
“The lyrics sound perfect: ‘Don’t stop me now, I’m having such a good time….’ That is my quote right 
there.”
“You Give Me Something” by 
James Morrison
“That’s my favorite slow song. 
Every line means something to me. I thought I’d put a chill song on 
there.”10, ALLIGATOR u thursday, february 3, 2011
w
Lens
   Flairby Dana Burke
UF psychology senior 
Ashton Whitmore goes 
for an understated 
edgy look with a black 
leather jacket, black 
tank top, dark-wash 
skinny jeans, Ray-Ban 
sunglasses and black 
ballet flats. By using 
simple pieces, she 
makes bold look easy. 
UF journalism freshman 
Taylor Gonzalez wears 
a blue henley with 
khaki pants, Converse, 
glasses and a watch. “I 
try to wear things other 
than jeans all of the 
time, and the henley 
is cool because it’s 
like a polo without the 
collar, so it’s a little bit 
different,” he said.For the latest frills, flair and 
everything fashion, check out what 
our lens caught this week. 
Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
UF psychology 
freshman Laurel 
Barksdale plays up 
femininity by wearing 
a dress, cardigan, 
pearls and ballet flats. 
What pulls this outfit 
together and makes it 
stand out is the ribbon 
utilized as a belt, 
putting the ultimate 
touch of class on an 
already adorable look.
UF senior Richard White 
shows his school spirit 
in an orange ensemble. 
But instead of orange 
and blue gym clothes, 
this food and resource 
economics major goes 
with an orange long-
sleeve shirt to match his 
orange Nike sneakers. “I 
just like to match,” he 
said.  Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Dana Burke / Alligator StaffPhoto Illustration by Dana Burke and Cynthia Despres / Alligator Staff
UF midfielder Sarah Chapman poses for a photo at practice on Monday.
AMPED with UF athletes: 
Secrets of the Swamp: stripped
If you have to spend another minute trapped at his 
overprotective mother’s dining table, you might pluck your eyebrows out with a fork.  
She has a history of emotionally catastrophic break-
ups. You’re the newest addition to her track record, and you have nowhere to run.
He kisses like a basset hound.
No one ever said dating was easy — especially in 
college. 
There are demanding course loads and too-tight 
schedules, but even still, it seems significant that oth-
ers and all that’s in between ends up being the most stressful part of our lives. 
Raging hormones lead to impulsive decisions, and 
it’s often impossible to get the blunt, bottom-line ad -
vice you need.
To make matters worse, your friends in your age 
group — though they try the best they can — aren’t any further ahead of the game than you are. Then there’s your parents, who still (embar -
rassingly) refer to dating as “go -
ing steady.” There is no such 
thing as Cupid, so you’re start-
ing to see the brighter side of celibacy, thinking it’ll make your life less complicated.
Never fear — other young and 
equally naive adults are here to make sense of the trials and tribulations of your heart. 
You can’t beat the game unless you play it, and 
sometimes it’s worth taking a timeout and asking for help.
We’ll take whatever you’ve got, whether it’s inti-
mate or embarrassing, heartbreaking or juicy.
Feel free to pour out your hearts via e-mail to ave -
nuealligator@gmail.com, and we’ll do our best to walk you through it and get you back on your dating feet.
Brittany Brave
Columnistsoccer player Sarah Chapman
“As soon as it came out—I 
found it out early, too—I was like ‘I am in  love with this 
song.’ I love the lyrics. I love the 
beat. This is a song – if I’m in a bad mood, a good mood, any kind of mood I’m in – I will still smile.”
Sarah Chapman
UF soccer teamthursday, february 3, 2011   u ALLIGATOR, 11
Shooting Star owner adds some “Fyre” to cuisine
BY KELLY RICHARD
avenue contributing writer 
On a rainy Tuesday night, about 15 people sat in the dimly lit 
Fyre Bar & Grill.  The two flatscreen TVs flanking the bar flashed 
the heated UF vs. University of Georgia basketball game, and sev -
eral patrons congregated to watch the ongoing battle.   
The deep-red walls and dark wood furniture create a cozy, 
welcoming ambiance in the restaurant, 203 SW 2nd Ave., which was formerly Japanese restaurant Shooting Star. Although Fyre opened about two months ago, remnants of Asian décor linger in the bamboo curtains and shoji screen room divider.Restaurant owner Alexander Davidowski made the switch to 
attract more college students, said front-of-house manager Ar -
thur Turnbull.
Davidowski traded Japanese fare for a 
broader ethnic variety, transforming the place into an Americana bar and grill.
The decision to spell Fyre with a “y,” Turn-
bull said, was to create intrigue and convey something hot.
“It gives us the freedom to do whatever we 
want with the menu,” Turnbull said.
The revamped restaurant’s offerings span from all over the world — from Italy to Mexico.  
Turnbull recommends choices like the Fyre burger, cala-
mari, crab wontons deluxe, fish soft tacos, pasta Riviera and bratwurst.
The crab wontons deluxe are a great way to start a meal, he 
advised, and if you’re trying to avoid eating too much, stay away from the fruit puree. 
The menu is also vegetarian-friendly.  Salads, veggie burgers 
and pasta dishes are plentiful for those who do not eat meat.
Dishes on the menu all fall under $10, making Fyre an eco-
nomical choice.  In addition, there are $5 lunch specials from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
12, ALLIGATOR u thursday, february 3, 2011
  I never understood the allure of the “Madden NFL ” franchise. 
Aside from the greatest sports commentator who ever lived, 
the game is boring if you’re not a sports fanatic. EA Sports’ dedication to realism in  games is good for the guy who has 
an NFL season pass on his Direct TV, but what about the rest 
of us? What about the gamer who doesn’t want to manage a franchise and just wants to play a simple, fun football game? Well, one of the best things about video games is that there’s 
something for everyone. That’s right: There are sports games 
even for people who hate “Madden NFL,” “NBA Live” and EA’s FIFA franchise. Here are just a few classic sports games you should check out to get psyched for the Super Bowl on Sun-day.
“NFL Blitz 2001”  Console: Nintendo 64  Price: Varies
  The best parts of any football game are the 50-yard Hail 
Marys and the skull-crushing tackles. So why not have a game 
where you can do both  all the time? There are no penalties in the game,  and late hits are not just allowed — they’re en-couraged. There are few things better in life than bulldozing a dancing wide receiver who just caught a long bomb in the endzone on triple coverage. Com-
pared to “Madden NFL,” this game is 
incredibly simple. There are less plays to keep track of, easy controls and a bare-bones season campaign. This 
makes it easy for anyone to pick up and 
play, regardless of whether you love football.
“NBA Jam”
  Consoles: Wii, Xbox 360, PS3
  Price: about $50  Those with sharp memories not destroyed by cheap beer 
might remember this gem from the Super Nintendo. In a rare 
display of actually doing something awesome, EA Sports de-
cided to remake the game for modern consoles. The best part is that while the graphics have been upgraded, the game is still just as great. Flaming basketballs, shattered backboards and dunks so awesome they’d make Dwight Howard tear off his Superman cape in shame are just some of the reasons to play. The secret characters are back, too, allowing players to form insane dream duos. Look me up online. I’ll be playing as 
Hillary Clinton and Mike D of the Beastie Boys.
“Backyard Baseball”
  Consoles: Wii, PS2, GameCube, Nintendo DS, PC, iPhone
  Price: Varies
  I’d be disgracing the American ﬂ  ag if I neglected to include 
baseball. Unfortunately, most baseball games are even more boring than watching a game on TV. The “Backyard Sports” franchise has been around for more than a decade and is 
directed toward younger gamers, but “Backyard Baseball” 
makes for some great memories. The  game’s characters have their own distinct personalities and skills. Plus, there’s just something charming about watching a little kid run the 
bases after hitting a home run into a tree. But because it’s for 
kids, it’s really easy, and the more modern iterations of the game are not nearly as fun. If you’re interested in checking it out, go with an early PC version. 
 Gamer Bait
  I never understood the allure of the “Madden NFL ” franchise. 
Gamer Bait
Gamer Bait
Andrew Wyzan
ColumnistSports games for people who don’t like sports games
around gainesville
 Local artist to have art exhibition this weekend
  BY ROBERT IMFELD 
 avenue contributing writer
 
  If you don’t initially understand the new art 
exhibition coming to Gainesville this weekend, 
local artist Robert Ritter won’t mind. In fact, 
he’ll have accomplished a key part of his vi-
sion. 
  “Picture Perfect Poetry, or Quixote’s Phan-
tasms de Amor,” is a collection of Ritter’s con-ceptual art that will be open to the public from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Feb. 5 at Tempo Bistro to Go, 1516 NW 13th St. 
  Ritter, a Santa Fe College alumnus who lives 
near Paynes Prairie, said his art is something 
Gainesville hasn’t seen in about ﬁ  ve years.
  “This concept piece is really different,” the 
48-year-old explained. “What I aim to accom-plish in this is, basically, the piece takes on a role of a social pariah or gadﬂ  y, if you will.”
  Ritter was inspired by an October 2010 
trip to Costa Rica, where he stumbled upon a 
house with an outside wall featuring vignettes from Miguel de Cervantes’ famous story “Don Quixote.” The owner of a landscape business by day, he spent about three months creating his art exhibition.  
  “It drummed up something inside of me that 
just rang true,” he said.
  The show is similar to a performance art 
piece,  except there’s no performer, he said. Rather, viewers act as an integral part of the experience.
  Ritter set up the piece to resemble a mock 
tribunal, one in which personal beliefs on reli-gion, politics and death are tested.  “Whatever it is that you believe in, the prac-
tical applications of your theoretical beliefs will be put on trial in the show,” he explained. 
  As guests enter the exhibition, they will be 
handed a set of papers that explain the con-cept. You suspend your disbelief, forgetting all preconceived notions and allowing yourself to explore different images and poems. 
  His mission, he said, is to create a whole 
new art form, one that some  might ﬁ  nd “dis-
orienting” at ﬁ  rst. 
  Ritter expressly challenges his audience 
through a series of stations he calls “exhibits” 
and various supporting-evidence pieces, end-ing with a ﬁ  nal station of suppositions that calls for critical analysis of personal beliefs.
  Ritter does not desire to be a career artist. 
Instead, he uses his art as a way to express what he feels if it’s relevant to society at the 
time.
  “As an artist, you’ve got to get a little more 
creative now,” he said. “In the words of Vol-
taire, ‘It’s not enough to conquer; one must seduce.’”
  One way he’s attempting to daze his audi-
ence is through a hanging piece of art that can be transformed into a book, a concept he calls an anomaly. 
  “To my knowledge, no one has ever pro-
duced this in the world,” he said. 
  Through this new form of art, in conjunction 
with the whole exhibition, he hopes to jab at commonly held beliefs and act as a persistent social pariah. 
  “People don’t listen to philosophers any-
more. Artists sort of take on that role,” he said.  
Classifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 3, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Call today 352-271-3131
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$439 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-8-15-1
FURNISHED 3BR/2BA HOME
Cent H/AC, W/D, living room, family room, kitchen, dining room, garage, fenced-in backyard, side patio. 10 min from UF/SFC. $1000/mo. Call 386-441-8208    2-4-11-5-1
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-21 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779
·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning
.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 10-2  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/DPet friendly352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-16-
10-40-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
1 Month Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$467
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$439
2/1 *$558
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
1 Month Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$439
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
14, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-4-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $9993/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089Garage included, Gated Community.2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $5501 year lease, SD, NS, NPCall/Text 352-870-7256gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-8-11-19-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-8-11-14-2AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-14-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
****  HOUSE 4BR/2BA  ****
Avail 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, bike to UF. 
NO Pets. Drive by 3532 NW 7th Ave, pick up flyer. $1200/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645    2-18-11-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-
11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-
street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. 
Rent directly from owner. Special terms 
avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-
11-42-2
Beautiful, 1bd, 1ba, loft.
5 min. on freeway from SFC.
Renovated with tile & carpet. pool,
clubhouse, exercise room, quiet location.
$450mo $450sec $45appl fee. 472-6491
2-4-11-6-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA, large living 
room & bedrooms, washer/dryer provided. 
15 min bike to campus, privacy fenced back-
yard. Pet ok. 2100 NW 8th Ct. $1400/mo. 
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-8-11-4-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 5BR/2BA BIG, big 
yard for dogs, bonfires, etc. W/D provided. 
Fireplace in living room & game room w/ bar 
area. 1803 SW 43rd Ave. $1650/mo. 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2--8-11-4-2
Immaculate small efficiency Quiet.Wash/
dry on premises.Wat/Sew incl NS No 
pets.1/2m South of UF/Shands.2 bus 
routes.$399/m.352-262-2871. Owner agent.   
2-21-11-14-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, 
W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & 
pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. $425/month. Short term lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   2-4-11-21-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! Call 850-974-0686   2-4-11-20-4Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 or
jfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-
cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-
634-1893. Available immediately.   2-14-10-
4
Roommate wanted to share nice furnished 
home in NW neighborhood 2 mi from UF.  
4 BR 2BA w/ W/D, all wood floors & large 
fenced backyard.  $450 inclds util, cable, HS 
internet.  No pets, N/S. 352-284-0771.   2-7-
11-5-4
2 male roommates needed. 2BRs avail in 
3BR/2BA house. Close to UF campus, on 
bus route, large fenced-in backyard. Cent H/
AC, pets welcome. $400/mo + elec. Call 561-
706-5378    2-8-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5
AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  GraniteCounters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011  n ALLIGATOR , 15
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-
10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students
●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoff
On cash vehicles
Pay off time negotiable
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check
Cash vehicles $1000 and up!
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
92 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
352-338-1999      4-20-67-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans
30 Day Warranty
352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      2-11-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
16, ALLIGATOR  n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011
ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submir resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
2-4-11-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   2-8-10-30-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14
GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS 
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY 
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT 
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-4-11-20-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
2-9-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 for more info and interview.    2-16-25-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14
Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, clean building, very minor mechanical, hours1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   11-20-11-5-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
Dependable,experienced Nanny needed to care for newborn; M-F; 35 hrs/wk; occasion -
al travel with mom; $9/hr. FL Driver License, background check, and excellent references required. Email resume toabtwbutler@gmail.com.   2-4-11-10-14UF Stadium Concessions Now Hiring!
Located in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, 
Centerplate is hiring Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Runners to work flexible hours. 
Apply in person 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM, Monday-
Friday. Phone:(352)375-4683 x6500.    2-4-
11-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to 
apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.
2-8-11-7-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced full/part time.
Some weekends & holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
2-9-11-7-14.
Web Programmer (P/T)
Programming websites and applications 
using Classic ASP and SQL Server. Small 
company in G’ville, great work environment. 
About 20 hrs/wk. www.oandp.com/careers   
2-25-11-17-14
P/T Administrator for Non-Profit
Local nursing home outreach program seeks 
P/T admin coordinator to handle inquiries, 
monitor volunteers, coordinate projects, etc. 
About 10 hrs/wk, www.acrosstheages.org/job   
2-25-11-17-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENTOVER 100 COMPANIESHOME, AUTO AND LIABILITYWHY PAY MORE? 371 9696www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-27-15WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Stand
gatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-1044
8-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
3 Year Old Female Black Lab, Weimaraner mix. Spade and chipped. Great hunting in-
stinct. Free to good home. Evenings 352-
376-7353.   2-8-11-5-24
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25SPRING HAS SPRUNG
The time is now to have your lawn & shrubs 
look their best. Call PROGREEN at 378-
0069 to schedule an appointment today
progreenflorida.com   3-31-36-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research 
will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. 
Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF studentsGatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.    2-4-11-6-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-20-70-18
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
 THURSDAY
 , FEBRUARY 3, 2011
n THE RECEIVER DECIDED ON UF 
JUST MOMENTS BEFORE SIGNING.  
By ADAM BERRY
 Alligator Staff Writer
aberry@alligator.org
  
  BROOKSVILLE — Minutes before 
making the biggest decision of his young 
life Wednesday morning, Ja’Juan Story nervously paced around the weight room 
at Nature Coast Technical High with no 
answer set in stone.
  Would he honor the oral commitment 
he made to Florida in June, or opt for Ohio State?
  Wearing a No. 8 Troy Aikman jersey 
as his Sharks gear lay on the table, the 6-foot-3, 190-pound wide receiver rocked back and forth in his seat, looking at the 
two stacks of papers sitting in front of 
him — one for OSU, another for UF. 
  The four-star recruit pushed aside the 
Buckeyes’ papers and signed the oth-ers, ofﬁ  cially becoming a member of the Gators’ 2011 recruiting class. He later said he didn’t make his ﬁ  nal decision until the moment he sat down to ink his name.
  “It all came down to what school 
would ﬁ  t me best and where I felt most comfortable, who was going to be there for me, what coaches I felt like had my best interest,” said Ja’Juan, rated by Ri-vals.com as the No. 31 wideout in the country. “Florida is where I felt most 
comfortable.”
He   said he was considering choosing 
Ohio State just 20 minutes before signing 
his national letter of intent. When asked how close he was to being a Buckeye, he responded, “You have no idea.”
  Ja’Juan sat beside his uncle, Rudy Sto-
ry, in front of about 15 reporters, coaches and friends. Too nervous to sleep the night 
before, Rudy and Ja’Juan had a lengthy 
late-night conversation in their driveway about the decision. But Rudy still had no idea what his nephew would do.
  “I’ve never seen him this nervous. I’ve 
never seen me this nervous,” Rudy said. “When he reached over and grabbed those Florida papers, I was elated. That was not what I expected.”
  Ja’Juan made three ofﬁ  cial visits — 
Florida, Ohio State and Oregon — with the Buckeyes becoming a late favorite af-ter Urban Meyer’s resignation.
  Meyer, former defensive line coach 
Dan McCarney and former receivers 
ONLINE JOHNSON WINS SEC HONOR TEEING OFF WITH TYLER JETT
n Ironically, former WWE superstar Chyna is studying Japanese at UCLA. Per-
haps even more ironically, she is hoping to use her education to teach English. 
… The LAPD is investigating a claim that Lindsay Lohan stole a necklace from a Venice jewelry store. The necklace was valued at $2,500 — or 5,000 copies of “Herbie Fully Loaded.”n Check out our website at alligatorSports.
org for the latest stories, episodes of the alligatorSports Podcast and the ﬁ  rst three installments of our weekly video show. Also, follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports.n Florida gymnastics freshman 
Alaina Johnson was named SEC Freshman of the Week for the third time this season after winning the all-around in the Link to Pink meet.Tim Casey, GatorCountry.com / Alligator
Brooksville Nature Coast Technical High wideout Ja’Juan Story signed his na-tional letter of intent with Florida on Wednesday, choosing UF over Ohio State.
 Story chooses Florida over Ohio State
  By TOM GREEN
 Alligator Writer
tgreen@alligator.org
   
 LAKE CITY — Timmy Jernigan is 
going to replace the Gators mailbox 
that sits in front of his house.
  The four-star defensive tackle, who 
grew up a Florida fan in Lake City, 
signed a national letter of intent to play 
at Florida State on Wednesday.
  “As a kid, if you’re a Gator fan and 
you had to choose a school, it deﬁ  nitely 
wouldn’t be Florida State,” Jernigan said. “God works in mysterious ways, 
and he deﬁ  nitely changed my heart. 
That’s where my heart’s at — in Tal-lahassee.”
  Jernigan was long thought to be 
Florida’s to lose. The 6-foot-2, 275-pound defensive tackle grew up about 40 miles north of Gainesville 
and was recruited by 
Florida since he was in the sixth grade, when 
he attended summer 
football camps at UF. 
  But the coaching turnover in 
Gainesville played a role in his college decision, as he believed FSU’s coaching staff was more stable.
  “It just seemed like all the coaches 
I really got closer to, all of them left,” he said. “Coach [Dan McCarney], he left. Then when Urban (Meyer) left … 
it hurt me because me and Urban, we 
were tight. Me and coach Meyer were very tight, and that shook me a lot.”
  While the familiar faces at Florida 
disappeared for Jernigan, he built a 
strong relationship with Seminoles 
defensive line coach Odell Haggins, whom Jernigan said is like a brother and a father to him. Haggins recruited 
Jernigan since he was in eighth grade, 
and Jernigan doesn’t see him leaving FSU anytime soon.
  Despite the change in staff at UF,  Gators fan 
Jernigan picks ‘Noles
 No reason for disappointment over UF’s 2011 class     
  What? The Gators’ 2011 recruiting class wasn’t ranked 
in the top ﬁ  ve? Not even the top 10? All the way down to No. 14?
  Calm down.  National Signing Day came and went Wednesday, and 
Florida was left with its worst recruiting class since 2005, ac-
cording to Rivals.com.
  But before Gators fans start calling for Will Muschamp’s job 
just two months after he was hired, let’s put this in perspec-
tive. 
  That No. 15-rated recruiting class in 2005 came in an off-
season full of transition due to the hiring of a coach named Urban Meyer. See any similarities with the circumstances surrounding this year’s class?
  Meyer’s abrupt resignation in Decem-
ber, and a quick shift of power to Mus-champ, left many of Florida’s recruits 
wavering on their oral commitment to 
become Gators. This uncertainty affected this year’s class.
  Meyer spent much of the recruiting pe-
riod looking for players who ﬁ  t a spread offense.  Muschamp 
SEE ANTHONY, PAGE 19SEE RECRUIT, PAGE 19SEE STORY, PAGE  19
Anthony Chiang
Chiang Reaction
achiang@alligator.org
Twitter: @Chiang_ReactionJernigan
18, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011
RECRUITING roundup
F our-star cornerback Marcus Roberson made his college decision. 
And this time, he’s sticking with it.
Roberson, the nation’s No. 2 cornerback, according to Rivals.
com, signed his letter of intent to play at UF on Wednesday morning.
It was Roberson’s third team in as many weeks.
On Jan. 18, the Ft. Lauderdale St. Thomas Aquinas star orally com-
mitted to Texas Tech, where his uncle is an assistant cornerbacks coach. 
That commitment didn’t last long, as Roberson reopened his recruit-ment Friday and committed to Auburn on Monday.
Roberson decommitted early Tuesday morning before officially 
signing with Florida on National Signing Day.
“We were excited to get him,” Florida coach Will Muschamp said. 
“He’s a bigger corner with length.”
Roberson becomes the marquee name in the Gators’ six-man 2011 
secondary class, which also includes four-star safety Jabari Gorman, four-star cornerback Louchiez Purifoy and three-star cornerbacks Val-dez Showers and Chris Johnson, all of whom signed their letters of in-tent Wednesday.
De’Ante Saunders, an early enrollee, is the other defensive back in 
the Gators’ recruiting class.
Grant chooses Buckeyes: Florida was in the running for one of 
the top uncommitted five-star recruits in the nation: Richmond (Va.) 
Hermitage High linebacker Curtis Grant.
Grant listed Florida as one of his final choices but opted to sign his 
letter of intent with Ohio State on Wednesday.
“I pulled the trigger with the Buckeyes because that’s the program I 
felt the most love from,” Grant said during his nationally televised an-
nouncement. 
Gators miss out on D-line Depth: Two four-star defensive linemen 
passed on signing with UF on Wednesday . Shreveport (La.) Evangel 
Christian Academy defensive end Jermauria Rasco decided to stay in-
state and signed with LSU. Meanwhile, Miami Booker T. Washington High defensive tackle Elkino Watson shocked many by signing with South Florida after saying he was down to UF, Miami and Louisville.
JorDan siGns: Ridgefield (Conn.) High three-star offensive lineman 
Tommy Jordan signed his letter of intent with UF. Jordan had planned 
to enroll early and was on campus in January but decided to return home for the semester while Muschamp filled out his coaching staff.
unsiGneD prospects: Palm Beach Gardens Dwyer High quarterback 
Jacoby Brissett and junior college defensive tackle Johnathan Jenkins will wait until the weekend to decide where they will play next season. Brissett is expected to announce at his basketball game Friday and Jenkins will decide on Saturday.
 — tom GreenUF FOOTBALL
By TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
tjett@alligator.org
 
In addition to signing 18 new players, Florida coach 
Will Muschamp finalized his staff Wednesday with the addition of tight ends coach Derek Lewis.
Lewis, who coached tight ends at Minnesota for the 
past four seasons, played in the NFL for two years and won a Super Bowl with the Rams in 2000. 
During his introductory press conference Dec. 14, 
Muschamp said he wanted to hire coaches with pro football experience. Lewis is one of six UF assistants who either played or coached in the NFL.
Muschamp’s hire comes six days after Stan Drayton 
left for Ohio State. Brian White, who has coached tight ends at Florida the past two seasons, will replace Dray-
ton as running backs coach, a position he held at Wis-
consin for 11 seasons.
Muschamp also promoted wide receivers coach Au-
brey Hill to recruiting coordinator in the wake of Dray-ton’s departure.
position chanGes: Muschamp said he has not de-
cided if any players will switch positions next season.
Rumors have surfaced that Trey Burton will play de-
fensive back this fall. Burton rushed for 349 yards, caught 32 passes for 210 yards and scored 12 total touchdowns while playing quarterback, fullback, tight end and wide receiver last season.
But with the Gators transitioning to a pro-style of-
fense under Muschamp, Burton’s role is uncertain. Mus-champ said Burton looks like he could play defense, but 
he also thinks the rising sophomore could be an asset at 
fullback and in special quarterback packages.
Muschamp said he is unsure whether Jordan Reed 
will play tight end or quarterback. 
UF is currently in offseason conditioning, and NCAA 
rules limit how many football-related activities teams can do. The Gators open spring practice March 16.
“There’s no football involved, 
there’s no pads involved, and it’s hard to evaluate a guy running around in shorts,” Muschamp said. “As far as 
position changes right now, I haven’t decided the concrete of what we’re going to look at.”
meyer off payroll: The University Athletic Associa-tion announced Wednesday that former coach Urban 
Meyer is no longer an employee of the organization. 
When Meyer stepped down Dec. 8, he said he would 
remain with the school in some capacity, but Meyer’s 
new job with ESPN could lead to NCAA violations if he kept working with UF players.Gators hire lewis as tes coach
Lewis
Coaches’ absence, instability affect recruits
Muschamp admitted he had trou-
ble making up for lost time when he 
entered players’ living rooms.
“I had a lot of, ‘This school or this 
person has been recruiting my son 
for a year now,’” he said. “I have 
one in-home visit in January , and that’s tough to be able to recruit and sell what we’re trying to do.”
Instability below Muschamp did 
not help, either. He did not name any assistant coaches until after Florida played in the Outback Bowl 
on New Year’s Day, three weeks fol-
lowing his arrival.
Coordinators Charlie Weis and Dan Quinn, meanwhile, could not start recruiting until their NFL 
teams lost in the playoffs. Weis’ 
season with the Chiefs did not end until Jan. 9, while Quinn and the Seahawks played until the follow-
ing week.
“I don’t know 
how much [recruits] know Charlie Weis and Quinn and all these other guys, and 
that’s what makes it 
so tough,” ESPN recruiting analyst 
Jamie Newberg said. “On the other 
hand, once they see the product on 
the field, I think that stuff will sort 
of even itself out. And when they have a whole year to compete for 
these kids on a level playing field, 
and they’ll get to know these guys, 
I think they’ll be fine.”
Regardless, Muschamp now has 
his first group of players he can take ownership of. How good this class 
will be remains a mystery — a prob-
lem that plagues any coach, wheth-er he has been at a school for seven weeks or seven seasons.
“In two or three years, we’ll 
know what kind of class this was,” Muschamp said. “Today is not the day to judge anything we do, and 
you can put that in your tape re-
corder because I’m going to say the 
same thing next year.”FOOTBALL , from page 1
footballJernigan wanted to give coach 
Will Muschamp and his staff a fair chance to make an im-
pression before he eliminated 
Florida from consideration.
But with less than two 
months between taking over 
as the Gators’ coach and 
National Signing Day, that proved to be difficult for Muschamp.
Jernigan said LSU and FSU 
were his leaders during that time, but he never counted out Florida until two weeks ago, when he said he had to 
cut a team because time was 
winding down. He informed Gators defensive line coach Bryant Young in person that he didn’t feel like Florida was 
the place for him.
 “I didn’t want to act sour 
toward anybody because of 
what happened in the past,” 
Jernigan said. “I know I 
could’ve gone in and played, but it’s way more than play-ing the game of football. It’s way more than that. That’s why I chose Florida State.”
The Lake City Columbia 
standout was most comfort-able with the coaches and players at Florida State, com-paring them to a family. 
And family means a lot to 
Jernigan, who had his young-er cousin sit on his lap during the nationally televised an-nouncement. 
Although he felt a lot of 
outside pressure from people 
in Lake City to go to Florida, 
Jernigan said he didn’t want to make a decision just to ap-pease everyone else.
“I had to do what was best 
for me and only me,” Jernigan said. “And I did what I had to do.”
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 19
Tim Casey, GatorCountry.com / Alligator
Lake City Columbia defensive tackle Timmy Jernigan signed a national letter of intent to play for Florida State 
on Wednesday. Jernigan said LSU and FSU were his leaders, and Florida fell out of contention two weeks ago.n THE GATORS WILL FACE THE REBELS TONIGHT AT 7 IN THE O’CONNELL CENTER.
By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators rise and fall on the play of their guards — the 
deepest, yet least experienced, position on their roster. 
UF’s women’s basketball team (14-9, 4-5 Southeastern 
Conference) has defined the terms balanced and well-
rounded this season, but the backcourt has emerged as the 
leader in conference play. 
Led by junior captain Jordan Jones, guards occupy four 
of the top five spots in scoring average during SEC games. 
But it won’t just be their offense that needs to shine when Ole Miss (9-11, 2-6 SEC) invades the O’Connell Center to-night at 7.
Senior guard Kayla Melson, ranked third in the SEC in scoring, field-goal percentage and assists, is the leader of the Rebels’ own effective guard combo that will test Flori-da’s defense. 
“I really love the way she plays — she’s a fireball,” Flori-
da coach Amanda Butler said of Melson. “She’s much more than a spark, but that’s probably where you can start in de-
scribing the way she plays.”
A dynamic scorer who also led the SEC 
in assists per game last season, Melson 
will challenge the Gators on the perim-
eter, Butler said. But against a player who prefers to penetrate as much as Melson, Florida’s real test will come inside. 
Melson has attempted only three shots 
from beyond the arc this season and is most dangerous when she drives to the basket, often earning one of  her 110 trips to the free-throw line. 
The Florida defense will face a challenge in trying to clog 
the lane and prevent easy cutting opportunities because of Melson and guard Valencia McFarland, who Butler called one of the quickest guards in the SEC. 
Guard/forward hybrids Deana Allen and Kayla Lewis 
have the combination of size and quickness that could pro-vide the difference against Melson and McFarland. 
But Lewis, who played against Kentucky and LSU after 
missing five games, is out again with a possible stress frac-ture in her tibia. Lewis sat out the Alabama and Mississippi State games with a boot on her leg. 
Florida went 2-0 in those games and will try for a third 
straight win against teams at the bottom of the SEC stand-ings tonight.  
But after losing to an Alabama team that was previously 
winless in SEC play last year, the Gators have learned not to overlook an opponent, Butler said. 
“It shows strides that we are making mentally … of re-
ally just being focused on Florida playing their best regard-less of who we’re playing, or what their record looks like, or 
any of those things that really shouldn’t matter,” she said.Florida guards to be tested by Ole Miss backcourt
Lake City Columbia defensive tackle felt Gators weren’t right fit for him 
RECRUIT , from page 17
spent the last two months finding new re-
cruits who would suit new offensive coor -
dinator Charlie Weis’ pro-style scheme.
This radical change left Florida uncer -
tain about its class. Things could have gone a lot worse.
Look at Michigan, Stanford and Miami, 
which also lost their head coaches this off-
season. Those three schools finished behind 
Florida with the No. 21, No. 22 and No. 37 
classes, respectively.
Add in the Gators’ lack of success last 
season, and this year’s class looks even prettier. The last time UF finished with worse a record 7-5 was in 1987. 
There is something to be said about 
that. 
Recruits were faced with the prospect of 
choosing a school coming off a subpar sea-son that had just hired somebody without head coaching experience.
Fans became spoiled with Meyer’s re-
cruiting. In his six-year tenure as Florida’s  coach, he brought in four top-three rated classes and 19 five-star recruits. 
But, in Meyer’s first offseason on the job, he brought in zero five-star prospects — much like Muschamp did this year.
Still, that class contributed with play-
ers like Reggie Nelson, Ryan Stamper and 
Louis Murphy making names for them-
selves. However, it wasn’t until the follow-ing years that Meyer was able to turn out the No. 2, No. 1 and No. 3 recruiting classes in consecutive seasons.
So, give Muschamp and these new 
Gators a chance. 
This is the start of a new era, and it’s 
going to take some time for him to make his own imprint on the program. It’s unfair to judge his recruiting based solely on this 
class. After all, he arrived in Gainesville 
with only two months before National Signing Day.
But he already made one smart move. 
Muschamp elected to save some of this year’s scholarships for next offseason due to a small upcoming senior class. 
Instead of giving them away to medio-
cre prospects now, he would rather save 
them for highly touted recruits in 2012.
That type of patience is one all Gators 
fans should exhibit with Muschamp and 
his new staff.ANTHONY , from page 17
coach Zach Azzanni had formed a 
strong rapport with Ja’Juan, and their departure brought plenty of questions about his commitment.
“Everybody was taking their stabs 
and whatnot. A lot of coaches started coming to the school and calling me,” he said. “Reporters for their schools were telling me their schools were in-terested and all that, so it was pretty heavy.” 
But Ja’Juan had already developed 
a relationship with Aubrey Hill, his new position coach, when Miami was 
recruiting him.
He described Hill as being “like my 
homeboy.” Ja’Juan quickly bonded 
with quarterback Jeff Driskel during an official visit to Florida, and sub-sequent meetings with coach Will Muschamp and offensive coordinator Charlie Weis went equally well.
“After meeting coach Muschamp, 
he made me want to go out there and crack some skulls again. That guy’s a fiery guy,” Rudy said. “Those guys are remarkable because they’re up front and honest. And I know in this whole recruiting process, that’s not always the case.”
During their conversation Tuesday 
night, Rudy said Ja’Juan told him he was so anxious because he was afraid of making the wrong decision. But with his name signed and his future team determined, Ja’Juan was finally at peace Wednesday morning.
“Before this, my heart was racing. 
Ain’t gonna lie, I was pretty nervous,” Ja’Juan said. “Now that it’s over, I’ve 
calmed down a little bit. I can be my-
self again.”WR wowed by Muschamp, Weis
STORY , from page 17Women's
Bask etball
“It’s way more than 
playing the game of 
football. It’s way more 
than that. That’s why I 
chose Florida State.”
Timmy Jernigan
FSU commit20, ALLIGATOR n THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011
National Signing Day has come and gone, and the Gators reeled in 18 prospects, seven 
of whom are already enrolled at UF. Check out some brief proﬁ  les on each of the new commits. All rankings and photos from Rivals.com.
SIGNING DAY
Alligator Staff
De’Ante
SaundersSafety
Deland High
6’0”, 180 pounds
- Under Armour All-American who enrolled in January. Prefers to play corner and enjoys special teams.
Marcus
RobersonCornerback
Fort Lauderdale St. Thomas Aquinas 
6’1”, 170 pounds
- Under Armour All-American who is the No. 2 cornerback in the class of 2011.
Hunter
JoyerFullback
Wesley Chapel High 
6’0”, 245 pounds
- No. 1 fullback in the nation. Could contribute as a freshman in the Gators’ pro-style offense.
Ja’Juan 
StoryWide Receiver
Brooksville Nature Coast Technical 
High 
6’3”, 190 pounds- Under Armour All-American. Will need some time to develop at WR.
Jabari
GormanSafety
Miami Monsignor Pace High
5’11”, 170 pounds
- First player to commit to Will Muschamp. Nation’s No. 10 safety and an Under Armour All-American.
Clay
BurtonDefensive End
Venice High
6’3”, 230 pounds
- Brother of UF quarterback Trey Burton. Enrolled in January.
A.C.
LeonardTight End
Jacksonville University Christian High
6’2”, 232 pounds
- Under Armour All-American. Similar skill set to former UF tight end Aaron Hernandez. Enrolled in January.
Mike 
BlakelyRunning Back 
Bradenton Manatee High  
5’9”, 194 pounds
- U.S. Army All-American. Enrolled in January. Will miss spring practice due to a recent shoulder surgery.
Kyle 
ChristyKicker
Brownsburg (Ind.) High
6’2”, 175 pounds
- Third-rated kicker in the class of 2011. Committed to UF over LSU in June.
Javares
McRoyWide Receiver
Lakeland High
5’9”, 170 pounds
- Shifty receiver who enrolled in January and could return kicks on special teams.
Jeff
DriskelQuarterback
Oviedo Hagerty High
6’3”, 225 pounds
- No. 1 quarterback in the nation and an Under Armour All-American. Enrolled in January.
Graham
StewartInside Linebacker
Middletown (Conn.) Xavier High
6’1”, 216 pounds
- Top recruit in the state of Connecticut.
Louchiez 
PurifoyCornerback
Pensacola Pine Forest High 
6’0”, 170 pounds
- Arguably the most athletic of the Gators’ six defensive back signees. Could also play safety.
Chris 
JohnsonSafety
Ocala Trinity Catholic High 
5’10”, 186 pounds
- First Ocala Trinity Catholic player to sign with Florida since quarterback John Brantley in 2007.
Tommy 
JordanOffensive Tackle
Ridgeﬁ  eld (Conn.) High
6’5”, 280 pounds
- Originally enrolled in January before deciding to return home for the spring semester.
Trip 
ThurmanOffensive Guard
Dover (Del.) High
6’6”, 302 pounds
- Top recruit in the state of Delaware.
Valdez 
ShowersCornerback
Madison (Mich.) Madison Heights 
High 
5’11”, 181 pounds- Gatorade Player of the Year in Michigan.
Tevin 
WestbrookDefensive End
Coconut Creek North Broward Prep 
6’5”, 260 pounds
- Late addition to the Gators’ class. Brings more depth to the defensive end position.