We Inform. You Decide.VOLUME 105 ISSUE 19 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Today
visit www.alligator.orgn  Florida freshman 
center Patric Young 
(right) and the rest 
of the Gators bench 
will be critical as UF 
closes out its SEC 
slate with a difficult 
nine-game stretch, 
starting tonight 
against Vanderbilt. 
See Story, Page 14.South Africa’s African National Congress deplores ... sushi on models?
JOHANNESBURG — South Africa’s gov-
erning party has pronounced: eating sushi off 
the body of a model in a bikini is politically incorrect.
A Monday statement from African Nation-
al Congress secretary general Gwede Man-tashe is unequivocal: “This act is anti-ANC and anti-revolutionary. This act is defamato-ry, insensitive and undermining of woman’s integrity.”
The fish-on-flesh question has raged in South African media in recent months follow-ing reports of the practice at parties of wealthy businessmen and socialites. 
Earlier Monday, Johannesburg newspa-
pers reported the head of the ANC’s powerful youth league had attended such a party over the weekend.
Mantashe adds: “The ANC is not into 
nightclubs or partying, but it is a revolution-ary movement.”
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSn A WOMAN’S MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR 
SHORTED OUT IN THE MIDDLE OF THE ROAD DUE TO HEAVY RAIN.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
For Gainesville Fire Rescue employees, their jobs are 
about helping those in need whether they face a fire or a 
torrential downpour.
Last Tuesday four firefighters were returning to the 
station at around 2 p.m. when they saw a woman in the 
middle of Buckman Road on the UF campus whose mo-
torized wheelchair had shorted out, leaving her stranded 
in the rain. 
Acting Lt. Jeff Schuhmacher, driver John Cicio and 
fellow firefighters Joseph Gonzalez and James Brown immediately blocked traffic to help. They gave her a rain-
coat to protect her from the storm and led her to a nearby 
building for shelter, according to a GFR press release.
The men and a UF police officer called a Gainesville 
Regional Transit System supervisor to arrange a ride home for her. 
The woman’s wheelchair was heavy and inoperable, 
so the firefighters followed her to her house and helped 
her get inside and into a working wheelchair. 
“Gainesville Fire Rescue provides all levels of service, 
emergency and non-emergency ,” Lt. Keith Saunders 
said. “If you’ve got an emergency , you want Gainesville 
Fire Rescue. If you are in the middle of the street, you call 
Gainesville Fire Rescue.”
The fire department did not disclose the name of the 
woman who was helped out of respect for her privacy. 
Partly 
cloudy
77/60FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 10
CROSSWORD 13
SPORTS 14
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Firefighter Joseph Gonzalez poses in front of a fire truck at Gainesville Fire Rescue Station 1 on Monday afternoon. Gon-
zalez, along with James Brown, Jeff Schuhmacher and John Cicio, who were unavailable for a photo, helped a woman in 
a wheelchair who got stuck crossing the street last Tuesday.
Firefighters go above and beyond call of dutyBy CJ PRUNER
Alligator Staff Writer
As political and social turmoil 
sweep across Egypt, one UF student 
studying abroad there is being evacu-
ated, UF administration confirmed Monday. 
Prior to the protests that have sent 
waves of Egyptians spilling into the streets calling for a new government that they hope is more receptive to the 
country’s citizens, the student, a male, 
was taking history and Arabic classes 
at the American University in Cairo. 
Due to student confidentiality laws, 
UF administrators are not releasing 
the student’s name at this time. 
What UF administration does know at this time, according to UF spokes-man Steve Orlando, is limited. Orlan-
do said UF has been in contact with the 
student’s mother but has not received any contact from the student. 
The student is among 2,600 Ameri-
cans the U.S. State Department expects 
to usher out of the 
country. He was expected to fly 
out of Egypt on Monday night or 
sometime today. 
Orlando also confirmed that Sandra 
Russo,  director of program develop-ment and federal relations for the UF International Center, was in Egypt a 
little over a week ago but is no longer 
in the country.US evacuating studentLOCAL
By MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Writer
The debate of police consolidation is 
done — at least for now.
Members of the Alachua County leg-
islative delegation unanimously decided 
Monday to withdraw a bill that would have created a committee to look into merging the Gainesville Police Department and the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office.
The removal of the bill halted a process 
that may have resulted in the sheriff’s of-
fice absorbing GPD and eliminating the 
police department.
State Rep. Chuck Chestnut, the delega-
tion chair, said the delegation withdrew the bill because the majority of the public 
didn’t support it.
“I was a little bit surprised at how 
quickly the delegation realized they were 
going down the wrong path,” City Commission-er Warren Nielsen said.
The issue had been 
a sore spot with police, commissioners and citi-
zens. Some people had 
drawn lines in the sand — GPD on one side and 
the sheriff’s office on the other. Others say 
it isn’t a matter of which department is 
better; it’s just a matter of money.Officals rule out law 
enforcement merger
SEE POLICE, PAGE 9Nielsen
NewsInternationalNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 105 ISSUE 19 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Paul Runnestrand, 
  prunnestrand@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online  Joshua Saval, jsaval@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  C.J. Pruner, 
  cpruner@alligator.org
 University Editor Elizabeth Behrman,
  ebehrman@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Adam Berry, 
  aberry@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  Greg Luca, gluca@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Jesse Simonton, 
  jsimonton@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor Cynthia Despres, 
  cdespres@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Paul Runnestrand, 
  Elizabeth Behrman, Joshua Saval,   
  Cynthia Despres
 Photo Editor Matt Tripp, mtripp@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Amanda Milligan, 
  amilligan@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Melinda Carstensen
  mcarstensen@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Anthony Chiang, Tyler Jett 
  Corey McCall, Emily Morrow, 
  Colin Simmons
 Copy Editors Rebecca Astorga, John Boothe, 
  Safid Deen, Olivia Feldman, 
  Greg Fink, Josh Isom, 
  Caitlin O’Conner, Lily Parkinson, 
  Rachel Rowan, Briana Seymour,   
  Cayla Stanley, Matthew Watts
 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Intern Coordinator Sara Ingebretsen, Jesse Morgan
 Display Advertising Clerks Carly Blattner, Jesse Morgan,   
  Stephanie Parker
 Sales Representatives Giselle Boothby, Serina Braddock,   
  Brandon Davis, Courtney McCalden, 
  Julian Pothemont, Ally Russo,
  Emilee Smith
      
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, Wildivina Rosario    
CIRCULATION
 Operations Assistant James Austin
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Alyssa Hemani
  Stephen Roskowski
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Judy Moore
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Shannon Close, James Nolton,
  Vinnie Pierino, Jackie Tseng
 Editorial Production Staff Jocelyne Sanchez, Alexander Silva,   
  Rosa Taveras SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or send an e-mail to editor@alligator.org.WHAT’S HAPPENING
Qualifying for SG Spring 2011 
ElectionToday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.Reitz Union room 284
You need your Gator 1 Card, 
or have a picture ID and know your UFID number. If you have any questions, email Amanda Griffin, supervi-sor of elections at elections@sg.ufl.edu. Student Body Election will be held Feb. 22 and 23.
Toastmasters Club Meeting
Today, 5:45 p.m.Entomology Building Room 1027Toastmasters provides a fun and positive atmosphere for members to learn and practice public speaking and leader -
ship skills. For more informa-tion, go to toastmasters.org or call Mary at 352-870-2267. 
Model Informational Sessions  
Today, 6 p.m. Rinker Hall Room 225Gamma Eta Sorority Inc. will be holding its first Model 
Informational Session for 
the Lupus Fashion Show. There will also be sessions Wednesday and Thursday at 6 p.m. For more information send an e-mail to 2011fash-ionshow@googlegroups.com
Recurso
Today 6:30 p.m.Matherly Hall Room 103Recurso will be holding an informational session for students interested in partici-“What’s Happening” in the 
subject line to ebehrman@
alligator.org. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
Florida women’s basketball players Azania Stewart and Jordan Jones were referred to as seniors in a headline in Monday’s Alligator. Stewart is a junior, and Jones is a red-shirt junior.
CLARIFICATION
A headline in Monday’s newspaper stated that 14,000 people attended the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire. That is the figure for Saturday alone. The attendance figure for Sunday is unknown.pating in the eighth annual 
International Service Trip 
to Nicaragua. Participants of Recurso’s Service Trip work to implement a va-riety of projects to assist those living in extreme poverty, including a School Construction Project and Dental Hygiene Campaign. 
Past participants will be 
there to answer questions. For more information go to  recursouf.wordpress.com/service-trip/ 
Islam Fair 
Today and Wednesday, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Reitz Union Colonnade
Calligraphy, famous Muslims posters, hopscotch in Arabic, jump rope with a Muslim  are some activities planned. So come experi-ence the various Muslim cultures around the world. The Islam Fair will also fea-
ture cultural organizations 
from the UF campus. Please visit islamoncampus.com for more information. As al-ways, the event is free.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an e-mail with 
RAIN
68/42RAIN
70/48CLOUDY
55/47RAIN
72/46PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/60
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 3
By KARI PFLANZER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dressed to impress in cocktail 
attire, UF administrators, alumni 
and students gathered to cel-
ebrate the opening of Black His-tory Month Monday night.
“A Mahogany Renaissance: 
The Essence of Progress” kicked 
off in the Reitz Union Grand Ball-
room, featuring speakers and performances by the university Gospel Choir.
After Jamal Sowell, former 
UF Student Body President and master of ceremonies, shared his opening remarks, UF President Bernie Machen addressed the au-
dience.
“This year’s committee inno-
vated and orchestrated the most 
diversified month Black History 
Month has ever seen,” Sowell 
said.
Machen said the African-
American population at UF reached 4,000 students and paved 
the way for other minorities on 
campus.“Black History month is a 28-
day celebration where you can look to the past while also look-ing to the future and seeing what the past has shaped,” Machen said.Machen’s presentation was 
followed by a speech from Ce-cil Duffie, executive director of Black History Month.
Mahogany is more than just a 
color, Duffie said. “It depicts the 
struggle of African-Americans 
and our ability to retain a good sense despite changing cultural stigmas and ideals.” 
Duffie said this month’s re-
naissance would feature new events as innovative as the Har -
lem Renaissance. 
Duffie was followed by the 
presentation of eagerly antici-pated keynote speaker and actor Boris Kodjoe, known for his roles in “Surrogates,” “Nip/Tuck” and 
“Resident Evil: Afterlife.”
Kodjoe greeted the crowd with 
a challenge for black students to 
set higher expectations for them-selves.
“Black History Month is about 
reminding ourselves to take our privilege to be able to represent those who have suffered and en-
sure that we are able to live our 
lives the way we would like,“ Kodjoe said. 
“We are standing on the shoul-
ders of those who really fought.”
Daniela Guzman / Alligator
The University Gospel Choir sings at the opening ceremony event, called A Mahogany Renaissance: The 
Essence of Progess, for the Black History Month celebration on Monday night at the Reitz Union.
Opening ceremony celebrates start of Black History MonthON CAMPUSn THE UF INTERNATIONAL CENTER 
WILL TAKE CONTROL OF THE PROGRAM IN JULY.
By MORGAN WATKINS
Alligator Writer
The UF Paris Research Center is on the 
move. 
The UF College of Liberal Arts and Sci-
ences has managed the Paris center since it opened, but control will officially shift to the UF International Center in July. The program, which began in 2003, will close its operation in Paris in July with plans to later relocate, said David Sammons, dean of the  
International Center. 
Since fall 2006, about 1,400 UF students 
have attended study abroad programs in 
France and nearly half of them were in-
volved with the Paris center, Sammons 
said. 
The center is housed at Reid Hall in Paris, owned by Columbia University.  
Sammons visited the center in October, 
when the Columbia University-affiliated landlord told him the college wanted to use 
the property for its own 
purposes. 
UF’s lease will not be 
renewed. 
The temporary absence of the UF center 
may require study abroad faculty members to devote more time to logistical concerns 
such as transportation and housing, Sam-mons said.
Sammons and other UF employees will 
reevaluate the center’s uses before re-open-ing it at a new location. 
One of the issues to be discussed is the 
need for a new director at the center. The current director, Gayle Zachmann, com-pletes her contract this year and will return to work in UF’s French department.
“The challenge is how do we maintain 
and continue our programs in France in the face of all these changes?” Sammons said.UF closes research center in Paris, plans to relocate
UFResearc h4, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011
n DONORS GIVE UP TO $10 FOR    
EVERY 3-POINT SHOT THIS SEASON.
By SARA OELSCHLAEGER
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the second year, the better the Gator 
basketball players perform, the more the UF 
libraries benefit.The Academic Sports Challenge is a sys-
tem of online fundraising for the libraries 
in which anyone can pledge to donate any-where from 20 cents to $10 for every 3-point 
shot sunk during the men’s and women’s 
basketball season. 
Donors can choose to donate for shots 
made by both teams or the men’s and 
women’s teams individually. They can also choose which library they would like their money to go toward.
At the end of the basketball season in 
March, the donor will be 
billed a specific amount 
based on the number of 
3-point shots scored for both 
home and away games during the 2010-2011 regular season.  Sam Huang, the libraries’ associate dean 
for advancement and development, said that the libraries want to meet the student’s needs. The program is a way to give students what they want from the libraries while in-
corporating the basketball team. 
For more information, visit uflib.ufl.edu 
for an online Academic Sports Challenge 
pledge form.Library donors pledge bucks for basketball shots
Student
Activism
AP Photo
White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs speaks during a 
news briefing at the White House in Washington on Monday.
INTERNATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON  — The United States has a vision 
for Egypt’s transition to real democracy: President Hosni 
Mubarak ends the state of emergency that has under -
pinned three decades of iron rule and gives up any last-
ing ambitions on winning re-election.
Administration officials said Monday that the U.S. 
government would prefer that Mubarak, 82, not run in 
presidential voting scheduled for September. But they 
won’t say that publicly for fear of destabilizing Egypt 
amid increased signs that the regime may fall.
The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because 
of the sensitivity of diplomacy and the difficult situation 
the Obama administration finds itself in, torn between 
pro-democracy protesters and an ally who has backed the 
U.S. for over three decades on issues from Arab-Israeli 
peace to counterterrorism.
Publicly, the administration would not be drawn out 
on the subject of Mubarak’s future, officials saying only 
that the elections should be open and fair.
“The United States government does not determine 
who’s on the ballot,” White House press secretary Robert Gibbs said. “I don’t think that people that seek greater 
freedom are looking for somebody else to pick what and 
how that change looks like.”
Washington is treading a fine line in trying to smooth 
the way for a more representative government in Egypt. Options include Mubarak stepping aside in favor of his 
newly named deputy, Omar Suleiman, or announcing 
that he will not run for re-election in the fall. But he might 
try to hold on.
Gibbs dismissed Mubarak’s appointment Monday of 
a new government in an apparent attempt to defuse the weeklong political upheaval in his country. Tens of thou-sands of demonstrators have flooded the streets, calling 
for his ouster.
“This is not about appointments. This is about ac-
tions,” Gibbs said. “That’s what I think people here and people around the world need to see from the Egyptian 
government.”
The U.S. is pressing Mubarak to institute a set of re-
forms as a first step toward meeting the demands of pro-testers clamoring for his ouster. They include moves to 
lift emergency laws, allow nongovernmental organiza-
tions to operate and free political prisoners, the officials 
said. Elections would follow on schedule.
The U.S. cannot force Mubarak to accept any of those 
conditions, although it has leverage born of 30 years of partnership and billions in aid.
European governments also urged 
a peaceful transition to democracy in 
Egypt, giving Mubarak even less ma-
neuvering room. Foreign ministers of 
the 27 European Union countries simi-larly stopped short of calling for Muba-
rak to resign.
“The process has to be inclusive,” 
State Department spokesman P .J. 
Crowley said. “One thing that we’ll be 
looking at as Egypt goes through this is revocation of the 
emergency law.”
In place since 1981, the law gives Egyptian police 
broad powers to arrest people and to hold them indefi-
nitely without charge. Human rights activists say the law 
will is used to suppress dissent.
Beginning less than two weeks after Tunisian protest-
ers ousted their long-time president, the Egyptian unrest has had the United States in a bind since its start.US hoping Mubarak skips re-election
Obama
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 5
 Jesse Lash / Alligator
  Bruce Baber poses with one of his dogs outside his home Mon-
day in Northwest Gainesville. 
LOCAL
  By ALEXANDER KLAUSNER
 Alligator Staff Writer
  
 When going from the corner of 
18th Terrace and Seventh Avenue to 
ﬁ  nd Bruce Baber, you can’t help but 
notice the signs. 
  Each red-and-white sign ﬂ  ashes 
its message to onlookers as they move down the street.
  “Save Bruce... Save Bruce... Save 
Bruce.”
  The signs ﬁ  rst appeared in the 
neighborhood when Baber’s home-operated dog-sitting business, My-dogspace, came under ﬁ  re in June. 
  In November, the Gainesville 
Board of Adjustments ruled that Baber would be allowed to con-tinue watching over others’ dogs in his home, but he could not collect money for the service. 
  Now the board’s decision is be-
ing appealed, and Baber again ﬁ  nds himself battling for the right to watch dogs on his property.
  The City Commission will hear 
arguments for the appeal Thurs-
day.
  The appellant is June Bowe, who 
leases her property at 1723 NW 
Seventh Ave.
  When Baber learned of the ap-
peal, he described himself as being “depressed, appalled, surprised and angry.”
  “They had weeks of advance 
notice that they could have gone 
to the board,” he added, as he held 
a small, furry, white dog named 
Huckleberry. “The board made 
their decision. But legally this is 
just a process they have a right to go through with.” 
  When the case originally went 
in front of the board, two questions 
were considered, said board mem-ber and current City Commission candidate Jimmy Harnsberger
  One of the questions was wheth-
er or not Baber should be allowed to watch dogs on his property. The other was whether or not he should be allowed to take money for it. 
  Because Baber had been watch-
ing dogs since 1987 — eight years before the ordinance that disal-lowed dog-sitting appeared in 1995 — the board allowed him to con-
tinue. However, he could no longer 
receive payment for the services he provided through Mydogspace.
  But there is no law against col-
lecting payment for walking dogs, 
so Baber continues to receive his in-
come for that service.
  Dog-walking is an integral part 
of Baber’s old business, and he takes the dogs out about three times a day.
  The sight of Baber walking 
around the block with up to ten dogs at a time has become a neigh-borhood institution, said Albert Matheny, a UF political science 
professor and a former neighbor of 
Baber’s. 
  Matheny, who owned the Bowes’ 
house from 1979 to 1999, said he is 
bothered by the complaints coming 
from the tenants of the residence because he is dissatisﬁ  ed with the 
current state of his old home. 
  “The house looks like a pigsty,” 
he said. “Somebody should com-plain about the way they keep their house.”
  Residents living at the property 
owned by Bowe declined to com-ment, and calls to Mike Bowe were not immediately returned.
  Matheny played a large part in 
sparking Baber’s interest in taking care of dogs. When Baber moved back to Gainesville after his father’s death, he earned money by helping Matheny with odd jobs, including 
baby-sitting his son and walking 
his dog, Grendel. 
  “He loves animals of all types,” 
Matheny said. 
  Dustin Carpenter, a neighbor 
who lives across the street from Baber’s and the appellant’s houses, said he only hears the dogs when 
he’s outside and the dogs are ﬁ  ght-
ing. The noise, he said, doesn’t 
bother him.
  During the proceedings Thurs-
day, no new physical evidence can be introduced to the commission, 
said Commissioner Thomas Hawk-ins. Instead, the Commission can 
only rule on existing evidence gath-
ered by the Board of Adjustments.
  However, Hawkins said he can-
not guarantee the Commission will not listen to new arguments 
brought forward. 
  “When people come to City 
Hall, they expect to be able to par-
ticipate,” he said. 
  Baber said he is unsure of what 
he will do if the Commission rules 
against him, and he also said he 
doesn’t want to speculate. But he was certain about one thing.
  “I and my supporters will be 
there,” he said.      Dog walker faces commission to keep business openThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 
words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the 
author’s name, classification and phone number. Names will be withheld if the writer shows 
just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, 
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial 
cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 376-4458.6, ALLIGATOR n  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011
Opinions
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgColumnALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/opinionEditorial
Paul Runnestrand 
EDITORElizabeth BehrmanJoshua SavalMANAGING EDITORSCynthia DespresOPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do you support U.S. District Judge Vinson’s health care decision? 34% YES66% NO
56 TOTAL VOTESMonday’s question: Are you voting in city elections?The recent health care reform may be due to tumble 
like a row of dominoes. 
When U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson ruled the 
health care reform law unconstitutional on Monday, he said the federal government violated the Constitution by requiring Americans to purchase health insurance unless they suffer financial difficulties. 
The White House responded by saying the judge’s deci-
sion was an example of “judicial overreaching.” 
This discourse shows our country is still wrestling with 
a question it’s dealt with since its birth: the balance be-tween states’ rights and federal power.
We can understand why the judge would deem it unfair 
for people to be forced to buy health insurance at the risk of an IRS fine. 
For Americans, such a measure seems to violate our 
freedom to decide our course in life and the way in which we spend our money. Vinson ruled this individual man-date section of the law unconstitutional because the Com-merce Clause provides for Congressional control over ac-tivity, not the lack thereof.
He makes a good point. Our problem with Vinson is found elsewhere in his 78-
page ruling. 
He said the section is the key to the law, and all other 
sections of the legislation “are all inextricably bound to-gether in purpose and must stand or fall as a single unit.” In the judge’s mind, the government should start back at square one and rethink the entirety of the health care over -
haul. 
Some people would agree with him, but the repeal 
of the whole bill would likely prove unpopular with the majority of Americans. We aren’t looking forward to sick people being denied insurance for preexisting conditions 
again and neither are the seriously ill. Because about 129 
million Americans could have a preexisting condition, nearly half of the country’s population would have to once again reevaluate where it stands in the eyes of insurance companies.
To be fair, Vinson noted he made his decision reluctant-
ly. He understood he was about to open a can of worms about a problem that can’t be easily resolved.
On the surface, simply dismantling the law may seem 
to be the best option. 
Many were quick to point out, however, that not requir -
ing health insurance would lead to people opting in only when they need medical care — a practice that supposedly would bankrupt the insurance industry.
The basic principle of health insurance is that the 
healthy will pay the bills of the ill, but that idea could be turned on its ear without the proposed mandate in place. 
Thus, people on both sides of the debate have stated 
that the law stands as a monolith not designed for hand-picking the best ideas and tossing the disagreeable ones in the trash. 
That said, we can’t help but wonder if there’s a way to 
keep the baby while throwing out the bath water.  
Maybe next time our politicians can make sure the 
foundation of sweeping legislation is constitutional before they vote on it.Rights Fight
Judge calls health care 
reform into question
Distributing fliers annoying, wasteful
As Patches O’Houlihan from the movie “Dodgeball: 
A True Underdog Story” wisely declared, “You’ve got to learn the five D’s of dodgeball: dodge, duck, 
dip, dive and dodge.” I never thought these words would assist me at UF. 
The setting is Turlington. It’s around noon on a Wednes-
day when you decide you’d like a delicious beverage from Jamba Juice. Alas, to reach your destination you must travel through the tricky obstacle course that is Turlington Pla-za. As you take your first steps, images of fruity concoc-tions floating in your mind, you’re suddenly bombarded 
by an eager student and an overly friendly, “Here, take 
one!” Swift on your feet, you avoid the attack — or so you 
think, until you sidestep into another outstretched hand full of fliers. “No, thank you” being your only defense, you put your head down and pretend to text, staving off flier-
wielders until you finally reach your destination. Crisis 
averted due to dodge, duck, dip, dive and dodge. Phew.  
For how many of us does this scenario ring true? I know 
I have walked the extra length around Turlington just to avoid the epicenter at the height of its activity. As entertain-ing as the evangelists and protesters are sometimes, it’s  not worth a hailstorm of fliers that I’ll crumple up instantly. 
In considering all the money and resources it takes for 
various  student groups to create these fliers, one has to wonder how successful they really are. How many people actually take a flier, consider it and attend the event adver -
tised? I would bet big bucks that almost every student takes fliers to be polite or just to keep moving quickly (I have mas-tered the grab-and-go method), and it either ends up in the trash, on the ground or in the bottom of a purse or backpack.  
I have never been part of a student organization that at-tempted fliering, so I cannot speak for its effectiveness. As ignorant as I may sound, my opinion stems from recalling my own experiences and witness-ing other students throwing fliers away, not to mention simply no-ticing the mass of them covering the ground by mid-afternoon. To students who believe in fliering, I’d like to ask that you at least keep them effective and useful for those who actually read them. 
Last week, I was off my dodge game and as a result was 
sucked into taking a flier. Feeling generous, I decided to scan 
it and was informed of a huge sale on purses, shoes and ac-
cessories. I was assured I would get the absolute best prices 
around. Unfortunately, the flier failed to mention where this amazing sale was occurring, and it thus ended up in a bin.  
With involvement so shoved down our throats, it’s under -
standable why so many students rise at the crack of dawn 
to thrust fliers into the  unsuspecting passerby’s hands. 
What could be an easier marketing method? Everyone at this school has their niche, and they want to expand their membership through the distribution of fliers. This method is understandable, yet my personal observations and expe-riences lead me to believe that it is ineffective. 
When students are in a hurry to get to class, they don’t 
care about your basket weaving team or weekend service project. As with the jewelry sale flier, some fliers are bla-tant wastes of resources. However, for those organizations seeking awareness, I propose more timely methods. After all, we are in the 21st century. Fliers should stay in the past where they aren’t littering our campus. 
Without them, perhaps we could navigate Turlington in 
a more peaceful manner, free of solicitation. 
Laura Ellermeyer is a first-year finance major. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Laura Ellermeyer
letters@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011 n  ALLIGATOR, 7
Arabs across the Middle East are asking for freedom of 
choice. And freedom they shall get, but what will be the cost of freedom to the Arab-Israeli conflict?
Anti-government protesters are calling for a democratic sys-
tem that would offer them better living conditions. However, 
economic incentives are not the only motives behind such pro-
tests. Many Arabs, Egyptians especially, want to cut ties with Israel and help their Palestinian brethren by opening up the borders and voiding the Israeli peace treaty . Hosni Mubarak has ignored such requests for the sake of stability with Israel. He submitted to foreign pressure and to his personal interests.
 Mubarak’s 30-year-long trek is near -
ing its end. While building a better econ-
omy, Egyptians will construct a foreign policy that could affect 
the ongoing peace process between Israel and Palestine. I don’t 
know how this new policy is going to affect the situation. One thing is for sure though: Israel will no longer depend on full cooperation from the Egyptian end. Now that Israel is dealing with millions of Arabs, it must weigh its actions accordingly.Overthrowing any Arab government in the Middle East is 
dangerous for the status quo. I realize that democracy in Egypt and any other Middle Eastern country is necessary . However, people should be extremely careful with their new foreign poli-cy choices, as this could lead to more Middle Eastern conflicts. 
Despite the risks mentioned above, I support an Arab world 
free of greedy dictators. 
This year, I am proud to be an Arab.
Nuseir Yassin is a columnist for the Harvard Political Review at 
Harvard University. Egyptian protests foreshadow new relationship with IsraelUWire
Nusier Yassin
UWire
Stubborn politicians self-serving
Zack Smith makes a fundamental mis-
take in his Jan. 31 column, “Compromise 
DeLay-ing the Inevitable.” In it, Smith argues that Tom DeLay demonstrated ideological consistency by refusing to 
compromise with Democrats. Yet parti-
sanship, as Smith writes, is not a “philoso-phy [that] may have intellectual teeth.” Instead, it is a methodology for attaining one’s political — or ideological — goals.  
Confusing methodology and ideology is not trivial. Indeed, little evidence suggests former Rep. DeLay’s method of hyper-partisanship, demonization of opponents 
and refusal to compromise — even on 
trivial issues — was a function of a politi-cal philosophy , instead of a maneuver to maximize political capital.
Smith’s argument is endemic to those 
who associate ideological consistency 
with party allegiance, and the logical 
end of the tactics of Tom DeLay is the purging of the current Republican party of moderate candidates in favor of per -
ceived ideologically pure nominees such as Christine O’Donnell. The justification Smith offers is that these candidates may better represent their constituencies, but nominating candidates in the extremes 
of a party would have the opposite effect.  
One hopes, in future efforts, Smith would 
examine his words rather than merely seizing a counterintuitive position. 
Charles Dahan
UF studentLetter to the Editor8, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011
HANNAH WINSTON
Alligator Writer
 
The Constitution, ladies night and bus 
routes were all on the table Monday at 
the City Commission candidate forum on 
equality issues.
The forum, hosted by the Human 
Rights Council of North Central Florida, presented questions about adoption rights 
for unmarried couples and marriage rights 
for gay citizens.
With a miniature-sized rainbow flag 
hanging in the background, the nine can-
didates who attended expressed the belief 
that adoption should be available to ev-eryone.
Lauren Poe, the City Commissioner 
holding the at-large seat, said that kids 
don’t care who their parents are. 
“Children need loving parents,” he 
said. 
Jeffrey Fiedler, who is running for the 
at-large seat, said that anyone who wants 
to adopt children should have to pass a training course.
Gainesville, most of the candidates ar -
gued, needs its Office of Equal Opportu-nity. 
Susan Bottcher, who is running for the 
District 3 seat, said the fact that they were there answering questions on equality in-dicated the need for such an office.
Critics have gone after the office, call-
ing it a waste of taxpayer dollars.
Don Marsh, who is also running for the 
at-large seat, said that Gainesville doesn’t need to spend time on issues like ladies night.
City Commission candidate Ozzy An-
gulo was quick to point out his view on the office.
“As a minority, I wholeheartedly sup-
port the office,” he said.
Abby Goldsmith, secretary for the Hu-
man Rights Council of North Central Flor -
ida, said the council will be endorsing can-didates within the next few days.
 “We have a really talented group of 
people running,” Goldsmith said.Commission candidates discuss equal rights issues
Erica Andersen / Alligator 
City Commission District 3 candidates  Jimmy Harnsberger, left,  and Susan Bottcher de-
bate human rights issues on Monday evening at the Pride Community Center.
 SOME OF THE MONKEYS 
WERE ABUSED BY FORMER OWNERS.
By STYLIANA RESVANIS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Along State Road 121 there is 
a seemingly ordinary 12-acre plot 
of land. If you blinked, you would 
miss the turn into a graveled drive-way that barely stands out, except for a yellow sign that reads “Mon-key X-ing.”
This plot of land is home to 
Jungle Friends Primate Sanctuary , 13915 N State Road 121, a nonprofit organization dedicated to caring for monkeys that come from a multi-tude of situations.
Some of these primates have 
been abused, used as test animals in labs or turned into household pets. Others have come to the sanctuary’s door after the zoos they were in shut down.
All of them are nurtured and 
given permanent homes.
“We recently had nine monkeys 
come in from the labs who were scared of blankets,” said Vicky Weston, a 20-year-old apprentice from England.
She also said some of the sanctu-
ary’s squirrel monkeys were used in 
cocaine studies. 
A few of the primates were even 
involved in iron studies, which 
Weston found particularly cruel.“They were starved and then fed 
in order to test their iron levels,” she said. 
Another serious medical prob-
lem among the animals is diabetes — in fact, 22 of the 120 animals suf-fer from the disease.
Weston said this is because the 
animals’ previous owners did not 
put them on proper diets.
“They come from 
owners who fed them leftovers and chips,” 
said Mimi Sanada, a caregiver ap-prentice at the sanctuary.
The staff at the sanctuary aims to 
regulate the animals’ diets by giv-ing them fresh produce and biscuits with nutrition.Surprisingly , bananas are not a 
crowd favorite.
“Some of the monkeys actually 
aren’t too keen on them,” she said. “Grapes are their No. 1, and peanut butter and jelly sandwiches are a treat.”
Sanada said the preserve relies 
heavily on donations to maintain the property and care for its residents.
To do so, the sanctuary is partici-
pating in the Pepsi Refresh Project. The possible $250,000 prize would go toward buying the land next door and expanding the grounds.
“We’re trying to get the word 
out so we can give more monkeys homes,” Weston said.
The staff attempts to recreate the 
primates’ natural habitats by plant-ing trees and using wooden props.
“They need a proper environ-
ment,” Sanada said. “They are social animals — they benefit from being with other monkeys.”
They provide buckets, swings 
and ladders made from hoses do-
nated by a local fire department.
These forms of enrichment make 
the primates happy, which is one of 
the sanctuary’s main goals.
Another goal is to educate peo-
ple on the adverse effects of taking monkeys from their original envi-ronments.
“You can never really tame a 
wild animal,” Weston said. “The people saying that they can — you’d have to abuse them to try . It’s not natural.”
Monkey sanctuary rescues homeless, abused primatesCITY ELECTIONS
ASSOCIATED PRESS
PENSACOLA — A federal judge declared 
the Obama administration’s health care over -
haul unconstitutional Monday , siding with 26 states that argued people cannot be required to buy health insurance.
Senior U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson 
agreed with the states that the new law vio-lates people’s rights by forcing them to buy health insurance by 2014 or face penalties. He went a step further than a previous rul-ing against the law, declaring the entire thing unconstitutional if the insurance requirement does not hold up.
Attorneys for the administration had ar -
gued that the states did not have standing to challenge the law and that the case should be dismissed.
Justice Department spokeswoman Tra-
cy Schmaler said Monday the department strongly disagrees with Vinson’s ruling and intends to appeal.
“There is clear and well-established legal 
precedent that Congress acted within its con-
stitutional authority in passing this law and 
we are confident that we will ultimately pre-vail on appeal,” she said in a statement.
The final step will almost certainly be the U.S. Supreme Court. Two other federal judges have already upheld the law and a federal judge in Virginia ruled the insurance mandate unconstitutional but stopped short of voiding the entire thing.
At issue was whether the government is 
reaching beyond its constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce by requiring citi-zens to purchase health insurance or face tax penalties.
Vinson, who was appointed to federal 
bench by Ronald Reagan in 1983, said it is, writing in his 78-page ruling that if the gov-ernment can require people to buy health in-
surance, it could also regulate food the same 
way.
“Or, as discussed during oral argument, 
Congress could require that people buy and consume broccoli at regular intervals,” he wrote, “Not only because the required purchases will positively impact interstate commerce, but also because people who eat healthier tend to be healthier, and are thus 
more productive and put less of a strain on the 
health care system.”
Obama administration attorneys had ar -
gued that health care is part of the interstate commerce system. They said the government can impose a tax penalty on Americans who decide not to purchase health insurance be-cause all Americans are consumers of medical care.
But attorneys for the states said the admin-
istration was essentially coercing them into participating in the overhaul by holding bil-lions of Medicaid dollars hostage. The states also said the federal government is violating the Constitution by forcing a mandate on the 
states without providing money to pay for it.
Vinson said the courts 
have generally not accepted similar arguments about Medicaid as a violation of state sovereignty and that 
the states did not provide enough evidence in this case.
“I appreciate the difficult situation in 
which the states find themselves,” he wrote. “It is a matter of historical fact that at the time 
the Constitution was drafted and ratified, 
the Founders did not expect that the federal government would be able to provide sizable funding to the states and, consequently, be able to exert power over the state to the extent that it currently does.”
He said that the only way the states would 
have legal standing to claim the Medicaid por -
tion of the law is coercion would be for the Su-preme Court to change the Constitution.
“Unless and until that happens, the states 
have little recourse to remaining the very 
junior partner in this partnership,” Vinson 
wrote.
Opponents of the health overhaul praised 
his decision Monday afternoon. House Speak-er John Boehner said it shows Senate Demo-crats should follow a House vote to repeal the law.
“Today’s decision affirms the view, held 
by most of the states and a majority of the 
American people, that the federal government 
should not be in the business of forcing you to buy health insurance and punishing you if you don’t,” he said in a statement.
Democrats just as quickly slammed the rul-
ing.
“This lawsuit is nothing more than an at-
tempt by those who want to raise taxes on small businesses, increase prescription prices for seniors and allow insurance companies to 
once again deny sick children medical care,” 
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev ., said in a statement.
Former Florida Republican Attorney Gen-
eral Bill McCollum filed the lawsuit just min-utes after President Barack Obama signed the 10-year, $938 billion health care bill into law in March. He chose a court in Pensacola, one of 
Florida’s most conservative cities. 
Florida judge strikes down Obama health care overhaul
25 other states filed suits against the law
McCollum
NewsLocalTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 9
Max Reed / Alligator Staff
State Rep. Chuck Chestnut, center, laughs with senior pastor J.W. Honeysucker, left, and Cpt. Lon -
nie Scott of the Gainesville Police on Monday morning at the Thomas Center.
Union president won’t give 
up on idea of unification
The Florida Police Benevolent As-
sociation argued that consolidation 
would help ease problems with un-
derstaffing. 
Brandon Kutner, president of the 
local Police Benevolent Association 
chapter, said a study should be done 
eventually.
“This doesn’t make the idea of 
unification go away,” he said in a 
later interview.
Some citizens said they don’t 
want to be taxed for a study that will get rid of a police department they like.
Doris Edwards, a Gainesville 
resident, said she and others in her neighborhood have gotten to know the GPD police officers; she even has their cell phone numbers. 
She said she doesn’t want to see 
that relationship evaporate.“I say if you want it, you have to 
work for it,” she said. “You can’t just expect to come in and take it from the city of Gainesville.”
As buzzards literally circled over 
the Thomas Center’s glass ceiling, citizens, officers and mayors told the delegation whether they thought cre-ating a group to study the effects of a merger would be a good idea. Most 
said it wouldn’t.
“The state is short on money. The 
city is short on money,” said J.W. 
Honeysucker, a Gainesville resident. 
“We cannot afford this study right 
now.”
Alachua County Sheriff Sadie 
Darnell said the delegation made the right call based on what the citizens 
thought, but she said she was disap-
pointed that many people are against unification.
“What should have been a posi-
tive turned into a negative,” she said.POLICE , from page 1n THE ROAD WAS CLOSED FOR 17 
MONTHS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
By ALLISON BANKO
Alligator Writer
Traveling along downtown’s Depot Ave-
nue will no longer be a hassle or a construc-
tion-heavy eye sore. 
The $1.2 million construction project that 
has engulfed Depot Avenue between South-
east Third and Main streets for the past 17 
months is wrapping up and will reopen to east and westbound traffic starting late Wednesday.
Workers have been reconstructing the 
avenue’s roadway, curbs, sidewalks, cross-walks and landscaping in conjunction with the Community Redevelopment Agency’s Depot Park Project, an effort to recon-
struct the contaminated land of the former 
Gainesville Gas Company’s coal gas plant.  
John V eilleux, engineer of the Depot 
Avenue project, said improving the road-way around the park was  essential for the downtown area. 
“There’s been a great need and desire by 
the city commission and the residents to do something downtown to get people to come to that part of Gainesville,” he said. “We needed to dress up the roadway. It needed a major upgrade.” 
The new Depot Avenue will be more pe-
destrian-friendly, with wider medians and bike lanes along with pedestrian lighting and appealing landscaping, Veilleux said. 
Though east and westbound traffic will 
reopen Wednesday, the northbound South-east Third Street lane from Depot Avenue will be closed until Monday , as crews will be putting final touches on the project with small roadway repairs.Depot Avenue to reopen
By KRISTEN WASKO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Here, children rarely go to school. 
Backpacks, pencils and books are 
scarce, just as scarce as the buildings 
that provide an education to growing minds. Here, they bear guns and am-munition and fight a war.  
Invisible Children is a nonprofit or -
ganization founded in 2003 that works to raise awareness of the war in Ugan-da and raise money to help get children out of battle and back into classrooms.
The UF chapter of Invisible Chil-
dren is partnering with Heal the World to host a benefit concert Wednesday at Rum Runners. All the money raised will go directly to the Invisible Chil-dren Legacy Scholarship Fund.
The Legacy Scholarship Fund gives 
children in Uganda the opportunity to get a high school education.
Belinda Smith, the chapter’s presi-
dent, said each chapter of Invisible 
Children has a sister school in Uganda. The money raised will go toward re-
building and maintaining that specific 
school. The organization also helps the 
children outside the classroom.
“We pair them up with mentors to 
help them academically and socially 
because of the tragedy that most of 
them have gone through,” Smith said.Concert benefits children
“We needed to dress up          
the roadway.”
John Veilleux
engineer of the Depot Avenue projectAroundGainesvilleClassifieds ALLIGATOR
www.alligator.org/classifieds TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$380 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning,freeHBO/showtime
*Oxford Manor*(352) 377-2777
these apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-1
WOW! Live from $325!
All Inclusive 3/3s and 4/4s
* Cable * Internet * Utilities *
* Furnished * Tanning * 24 Hr Gym *
* TheLandingsUF.com * 336-3838 *
* 3801 SW 13th St * 
4-20-70-1
1, 2, 3, 4BR Apts.
www.ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-20-70-1
Now Leasing for 2011-2012!
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
Call today 352-271-3131
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
All-inclusive private suites
***Starting @ $399***
Available for imm move in!
2 bus routes, tons of amenities
Lexington Crossing Apts
Call today! 373.9009
4-20-10-70-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-20-10-70-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
42” TV included in every apt
$439 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-1
The Polos
Already have roommates?
ALL-INCLUSIVE RATES*
Call for current specials!
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-1
 2 BLOCKS TO UF-$335/MO
4BR Fully Furn + All Utils. Incl. Call Eric 
Leightman, University Realty, 219-2879 or CampusWalkUF.com    4-20-70-1
LEXINGTON CROSSING SUBLEASE
Move In ANY Time. Highly Negotiable Terms. Fully Furnished. Friendly Roommates. 3 Bus Routes. $379/m OR best offer. Call/text 813-205-1549. Email ibukreyev@ufl.edu.   2-8-15-1
2/2 Condo Avail ASAP!Option to furnish.
$700.Close to UF,Santa Fe & Mall.2 bus routes.Pet friendly.Great Place,Good Deal! 305.469.8020 tiah2005@gmail.com    2-2-11-5-1
FURNISHED 3BR/2BA HOME
Cent H/AC, W/D, living room, family room, kitchen, dining room, garage, fenced-in backyard, side patio. 10 min from UF/SFC. $1000/mo. Call 386-441-8208    2-4-11-5-1QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $350. Small 2br $375 372-6881, 213-3901        
4-20-10-70-2
Arbor Park
2/1.5 $599 - 1050 Sqft
Call today 335-7275
4-20-10-70-2 
Now Leasing for Fall!
Arlington Square & Wisteria Downs
www.arlingtonsquare.org
Downtown apts from only $619
Check availability today! 338-0002
4-20-10-70-2
1/1 E at $469 ALL Pets Welcome
Frederick Gardens
Call (352) 372-7555
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-20-10-70-2
Pinetree Gardens
2/1 Townhome w/ w/d for $649
3br  for $799.
 Free UF parking. 352-376-4002
4-20-10-70-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-20-10-70-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
These apts kick other apts in the teeth
4-20-10-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-09-167-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Pick THE LAURELS for FALL!
1 & 2 Flats, 3/3 TH  w/Cable @ $815
24hr gym*Tanning *Gated*Pet Friendly
thelaurelsuf.com  352.335.4455
4-20-10-70-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $629
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-20-10-70-2 
       2/2 and 3/3 Townhomes
·         From $360/person!·         Available NOW and August!·         377-2801*cobblestoneuf.com4-20-70-21 & 2 BR - MOVE IN TODAY!
·         1/1 from $579 * 2/1.5 from $649
·         Townhomes & Flats * Pets Loved!
·         Includes water/sewer!
·         Pools*Tanning*Fitness*376-2507
4-20-10-70-2
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg.        4-20-10-70-2
Madison Pointe-NW 23rd Blvd
1s-$699 2s-$789 3s $859.
Free Tanning, Pool, Gym
Gated and Pet Friendly352-372-0400  madisonpointe.org4-20-70-2
●ONE MONTH FREE●
Available for Immediate Move-Ins
1,2, and 3 Bedrooms
(352)335-7656
www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
1bed @ Hidden Village
500 sq ft $479 Close to UF and Shands
Call 352-376-1248
4-20-10-70-2
HUGE floor plans!
1/1 $599 *2/2.5 townhouse $779*
4/2.5 townhouse $1099*Washer/Dryers*
352-332-7401 www.thegardensuf.com
4-20-70-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1's from $659 * 3/2's from $799
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-20-10-70-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-20-10-70-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-20-10-70-2
GP is NOW LEASING for 2011
Student friendly 4/4's! 
Starting at $409 per person!
(352) 271-3131 - GainesvillePlace.com
4-20-70-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-20-10-70-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-20-10-70-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-20-10-70-2
FOX HOLLOW
Gated Entry
MOVE-IN SPECIAL
1BR STARTING AT $499.
7301 W Univ Ave
Mon-Fri 9-6, Sat 10-3
352-332-3199
www.foxhollowgainesville.com
Text: foxhollow@65374
4-20-10-70-2
WALK TO UF! ● 1BR $425
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com             4-20-10-70-2
      Move In Today/January/Fall!
·         1/1 from $625 * 1/1 LOFT from $625·         2/2 from $669 *3/2 from $779
·         Pools * Cardio * Tanning
.         Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!
·         377-7401 * Pets Loved!
4-20-10-70-2
BRIDGELIGHT
1 BR Loft Style
starting at $495 mo.
M-F 10-2  Sat. by appt.
3006 SW 23rd St. 377-5221
www.bridgelightapts.com
Text: bridgelight@65374
4-20-10-70-2
Washer/Dryer in Every Apartment
1/1's from $719 2/2's from $839
3/3's f rom $954
Includes Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-20-10-70-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key
2.1 bedroom Apartment
>From $550/mo; 1 mo free for 
UF students
on yr lease
Walk to Campus
352-376.6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
2/2 & 3/3 Roommate Matching
Walk In ClosetsPrivate BathroomsCable w/HBO & ShowtimeFull size W/DPet friendly352-374-3866                  4-20-10-70-2SUN HARBOR TOWNHOMES
1.1 Townhomes
>From $525 mo; 1 mo free with yr lease.
Walk to Campus
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
SUN BAY and Sun Key 
1.1 bedroom Apartment
(Not just a room!) 1mo free for UF students
>From $475 mo; Walk to Campus
No other offers apply
352-376-6720 or 352-376-7041
www.sunisland.info
4-20-10-70-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee. 1 & 2BR, 
privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   2-2-10-
30-2
CALL TODAY!
Homes/Condos/Apartments
Close to UF on bus route!
www.edbaurmanagement.com  
352-375-7104 
4-20-10-70-2
$500-$600 clean, spacious PRIVATE, apt. 
for calm, stable, mature person in quiet area,  greenspace/trees; pvt patio, near UF & dntn, bus. 1825-1826 NW 10th st. 352-376-0080, 352-284-3873; postj@bellsouth.net   4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free!
Sundowne Villas
Studio *$430 and 1/1 *$457
Located behind Butler Plaza
Pet friendly No weight limits!
Ph. 377-2596 www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
2 MONTHS FREE!
Pine Rush Villas
NO PET/ALARM FEES
Pet Friendly No Wgt Limits
1/1 *$447
2/1 *$548
Near UF and Oaks Mall
Ph. 375-1519 www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
2 Months Free
Sunrise Villas
One Bedroom Villa *$428
Near UF and Shand's
Pet Friendly No Weight Limits
Ph. 372-4835  www.gremco.com
4-20-10-70-2
First Month Free
Campus Walk Apartments
All Inclusive Individual Leases
4 Bedroom Townhomes and flats
Located on UF campus
$350 per bedroom All Inclusive
Semester Leases available!
(352) 376-0828
(Rental office at Homestead Apts.)
www.gremco.com 
4-20-10-70-2
The Cottages on Market Street
2BR/1BA apt $500 mo; No Dep, No Fee's
UF or SF Full-Time Students
Bike to Campus, Walk to Starbucks
Tommy 352-339-1965
4-20-10-70-2
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 11
●NW 1 br, new carpet/paint, close to banks/
shopping, minutes from downtown & UF, some utilities included, $450/mo●NW 2br 2ba flat, large mst br, w/d, en-
closed screened patio, 1 mo free w/year 
lease, $700/mo
●SW 2br, 1.5ba townhouse near shopping, community pool, $600/mo, 1 mo free w/yr lease
●Mill Pond- Lovely 2br, 2ba flat with Florida 
rm, courtyard, garage, community pool and 
tennis courts. $1000●Downtown 2 BR at the Lofts at W. University.  This modern designed unit in-
cludes cable, internet, washer/dryer, and 2 
onsite parking spaces. Minutes from UF and 
Shands, $1050/mo●Mallorca Square,Large 2br,2.5 ba town-house convenient to Oaks Mall and UF/hos-
pitals, many extras,$895/mo
●Treehouse Village- 2/2  New Carpet,D/W, 
W/D incl.,on covered bus line close to down -
town, UF/Shands. $595●BIG 3/3 in SW, Ceramic/Carpet, D/W, W/D 
includes clubhouse, pool, comp lab, volley -
ball, tennis, basketball, MUST SEE $900
★Edbaurmanagement.com 352-375-7104 ★
4-20-10-70-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $799
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-20-10-70-1
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $495. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
2-24-11-35-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD PLasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    2-24-11-35-2★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-250-6149    2-28-11-36-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com
●5/3  house         630 nw 36  street    $1800
●4/3  house        3514 nw 7 place      $1500
●3/2  house        1534 nw  54 drive    $1300
●4/2  house         929 nw 22 street     $1500
●4/2  house         610 nw 34 terrace   $1400
●2/1  apt     2nd floor 204 nw 18  st    $1200
●2/1  apt     1st  floor 204  nw 18 st    $1100
●2/2   apt     2515  sw  35 place          $1200
2-4-11-10-2
The Retreat at Madison Pointe
2/2s with vaulted ceilings $999
3/3 Townhomes w/Private Baths $1089
Garage included, Gated Community.
2701 NW 23rd Blvd 352-372-0400
www.madisonpointe.org          4-20-66-2
WALK TO UF Available Feb.
1BR/1BA $550
1 year lease, SD, NS, NP
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com   2-28-11-33-2
Available Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA very nice house. 
Quiet area between UF and Santa Fe. Game 
room, W/D provided. Fenced backyard, pets 
ok. 1330 NW 39th St. $1200/mo. Call 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-14-2
AVAILABLE  AUG 1st. 4BR/3BA beautiful 
4-year-old house, washer/dryer provided. Open floor plan, vaulted ceilings, fireplace, large rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. $1575/mo 339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-1-11-9-2
AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA house. 
Beautiful wd flrs, fireplace, good size rooms. W/D provided, fenced yard. Pet ok. CH/AC, 
DW, 830 NW 16th Ave. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342  gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-9-2AVAILABLE AUG 1st. 4BR/2BA modern 
house, large lot, nice trees. W/D provided, 
fireplace, fenced yard, 1-car garage, back 
deck 2606 NW 34th St. $1400/mo. 352-339-
2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
2-1-11-9-2
Quality Houses Available Aug 1st.
Walk/Bike to campus 352-339-2342
www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com     2-1-11-9-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, new carpet, tiles, just painted. 
Extra clean. $625/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160    2-17-11-20-2
****  HOUSE 4BR/2BA  ****
Avail 8/1. Remodeled, W/D, bike to UF. 
NO Pets. Drive by 3532 NW 7th Ave, pick up flyer. $1200/mo. 373-1558 or 246-8645    2-18-11-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $410, 2 BR $500. 352-335-0420   2-28-
11-25-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $450, 2BR $550 352-335-0420   2-28-11-25-2
Remodeled 2bd/1.5ba Townhouse; new 
w/d; close to mall and pub transp; 4mi from 
campus; free cable; partially furn; 2 parking 
spaces; NO PETS $650 mo   (352)672-1571   
2-1-11-5-2
WALK TO UF & MIDTOWN
3 & 4BR HOUSES from $1375/mo. Free off-street parking, all appliances incl W/D, DW. Rent directly from owner. Special terms avail. dalyproperties.com or 359-3341    4-1-11-42-2
Lg Rm, 4/2, Clean + Quiet
.03 mi to SFC, 8 mi UF. 2 lv rms, laundry, garage, lg kitchen, porch. 325 + 1/4 util (avg. 80 e/month). 1st, last, sec dep (negotiable)! 352-283-9905, sarad7821@yahoo.com   2-1-11-5-22BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus 
Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun 
Subdivision. Clean & neat. $750/mo. Call 
352-871-7801    2-1-11-5-2
Beautiful, 1bd, 1ba, loft.
5 min. on freeway from SFC.
Renovated with tile & carpet. pool,
clubhouse, exercise room, quiet location.
$450mo $450sec $45appl fee. 472-6491
2-4-11-6-2
Walk to UF-2/2.5 bath townhouse avail now 
or fall. Also houses near UF available for 
Fall. www.forrentgainesville.com or call Todd 
at 352-514-4915    3-17-11-30-2
1BR/1BA NW. $475/mo.
Available now. Pets ok.
Call 352-359-1644 or 352-332-8481     2-28-11-20-2
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-20-70-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Call now. Share 4BR/4BA 1st floor, furnished 
condo at Countryside. 1 mi to UF. Incl utils, W/D, internet, cable TV, great parking & pool. 2 rooms avail immed. $395/mo/rm1-386-672-6969 or 1-386-295-79292-28-10-82-4
1st month free. Grad student looking for fe-
male roommate in fully furnished 4/4 condo at Countryside. $425/month. Short term lease available. Cable/internet, utils, W/D, 2 bus routes. Contact Megan 727-542-8155.   2-4-11-21-4
Female looking for same to share a furnished 
3BR/2BA condo. 10 mins by bus to UF cam-pus. $400/mo including utils. Great Location! Call 850-974-0686   2-4-11-20-4
Roommate wanted. $425/mo 4/2 2 blocks 
form campus. 814-440-3325 orjfidorra@hotmail.com    3-2-11-30-4
Gated 4BR/4BA Countryside condo, pool -
side, own BD & BA, W/D, cable,  hi-speed 
internet, early stop on UF bus rte. Utils in-cluded. $350/mo. No deposit required. 863-634-1893. Available immediately.   2-14-10-4
Roommate wanted to share nice furnished 
home in NW neighborhood 2 mi from UF.  
4 BR 2BA w/ W/D, all wood floors & large 
fenced backyard.  $450 inclds util, cable, HS internet.  No pets, N/S. 352-284-0771.   2-7-11-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condo for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-70-5AFFORDABLE LUXURY NEW CONSTRUC-
TION NEAR UF, SHANDS, LAW SCHOOL
2Bed/3 Full Baths + Office.  Granite
Counters, 2 Direct Bus Stops to UF.
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-20-70-5
WALK TO UF & DOWNTOWN!
THE PALMS – New Ultra-Luxury Condos.Granite, Huge Closets, Pool, Call EricLeightman, University Realty 352-219-28794-20-70-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-20-10-70-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-20-10-70-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-20-10-70-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-20-70-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490      4-20-70-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846    
4-20-70-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846      4-20-70-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.  4-20-70-6 
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.  4-20-70-6 
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.     4-20-10-70-6
CASH PAID for Laptops
Parts & Repair Mac & PC laptops
Joel 336-0075 www.pcrecycle.biz
4-20-10-70-7
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-20-10-70-7
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-20-10-70-2
12, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011
UF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT AUCTIONS
are underway...
bikes, computers, printers, vehicles & more. 
All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-20-10-70-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-20-70-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-20-
70-11
★★★★★New Scooters 4 Less ★★★★★
HUGE Selection. Scooter Sales & Service!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-20-10-70-11
★★★GatorMoto★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at$999. No legit 
shop can beat these prices! 1yr Warranties 
included. 376-6275 GatorMoto.com  4-20-10-
70-11
SCOOTER SERVICE
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW service rates! 
Will service any make/model. Close to UF! 
Pick-ups avail cheap oil changes!! 336-1271  
4-20-10-70-11
GATORMOTO Gville’s  #1 service facility. We 
repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups avail-able. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275   
4-20-10-70-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com  4-20-10-70-11
●FAST CASH FOR ALMOST ANY CARS  ●
●Running or not! ●
●NEED HONDA, TOYOTA, PICKUPS
●Over 17 yr svc to UF students●Call Don @ 215-7987    4-20-70-12
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-20-70-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT 352-281-9980                      
4-20-70-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★
POWER WINDOWS DON’T WORK?
On site avail. Steve’s Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
4-20-70-12
I BUY CARS & TRUCKS
Call Anytime       352-339-5158
2-28-10-98-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
60 day payoffOn cash vehiclesPay off time negotiable352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit checkCash vehicles $1000 and up!352-338-1999     4-20-70-1292 Eagle Talon $1699
89 Ford Bronco II $1499
97 Pontiac Transport $1499
96 Chevy Blazer $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Cadillac Deville $1999
95 Ford Explorer $1999
98 Ford Expolorer $1999
97 Lincoln Town car $1999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
98 Landrover Discovery $4999
01 Chevy Silverado $4999
99 Ford F150 $5999
98 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Certified vehicles
No credit check
Move  vehicles $500 & up!
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check, buy here pay here
Cars, SUVs, Trucks & Vans
30 day warranty
352-375-9090     4-20-70-12
02 Dodge Neon $4500
00 Chevy 3500 $5900
02 Chevy Camero $6999
03 Ford Taurus $6999
352-375-9090       4-20-70-12
05 Saturn Ion $7999
04 Toyota Corolla $7999
04 Kia Sorento $8999
03 Nissan Altima $9999
352-375-9090      4-20-70-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & VansOver 150 vehicles in stock!352-338-1999      4-20-67-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Cars, Trucks, SUV's, & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090         4-20-67-12
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-20-70-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-376-6866 ext. 5079 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
2-11-11-70-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.ACCOUNTING CLERK
The Business Office at The Alligator has
an open position for an Accounting Clerk.
Applicant must be a currently enrolled student,
majoring in Accounting or Business
Administration. Duties include operating
Quickbooks accounting system to work
with accounts receivables and accounts
payables. Other duties consist of
manipulating Excel spreadsheets,
answering phones, and general
office duties. Organization and a great
attitude is a necessity. Candidate should be
able to work 10-15 hrs per week and commit
to a 1 year term. Summer availability is a 
MUST. Please submir resume,
along with a cover letter to:
Mail: Business Office,
The Independent Florida Alligator
PO Box 14257,
Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Email: mbell@alligator.org AND
dkradolfer@alligator.org,
or Fax: 352-376-3015.
No phone calls please.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
2-4-11-5-14
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-20-10-70-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-20-10-70-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  4-20-10-70-14
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011 � ALLIGATOR, 13
 TUTORS NEEDED 1-on-1 tutoring at-risk 
K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net   
2-8-10-30-14
Gator Tail Dancers
Now Hiring Call 352/672/1892        3-29-10-60-14
HIRING ALARM DISPATCHER
24/7 monitoring center w/part-time, day, eve-
ning & overnight shifts currently available 
email ddamiano@cpss.net or fax 352-491-
3617   2-28-10-39-14
An awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.   2-11-10-26-14GET PAID TO WAVE! ENERGETIC AND 
OUTGOING. NEED COSTUMED WAVERS 
FOR LIBERTY TAX ON ARCHER RD. HRLY 
PAY + BONUS. FLEXIBLE HOURS. GREAT 
JOB FOR STUDENTS. CALL 672-6300
2-4-11-20-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2100
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counsel -
ors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs 
June 13 – July 30. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 
455-4267.   4-20-11-66-14
●●●ATTENTION SMOKERS! ●●●
●●Do you want to quit smoking? ●●
Smokers needed to participate in a smoking 
cessation study. You may be compensated. 
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com   
2-9-20-14
HOUSEKEEPING - CLEANING JOB
All around cleaning & laundry. FT available 
Mon-Fri, 10am - 5pm. $7.25/hr, experience 
and good attitude preferred. Call 256-3323 
for more info and interview.    2-16-25-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-20-11-65-14Lot person, Polaris of Gainesville. Clean 
machines,load, and unload for customers, 
clean building, very minor mechanical, hours
1p-6p M-F apply in person[students prefered]
12556 NW US HWY 441 Alachua Fl 32615   
11-20-11-5-14
MEDICAL RECEPTIONIST:
Full time.   Responsible for scheduling, 
phone calls, verifying insurance and coordi -
nating office activities.  E-mail resumeafn22025@bellsouth.net    2-17-20-14
Dependable,experienced Nanny needed to 
care for newborn; M-F; 35 hrs/wk; occasion -
al travel with mom; $9/hr. FL Driver License, background check, and excellent references 
required. Email resume to
abtwbutler@gmail.com.   2-4-11-10-14
Get Paid to Take Surveys, earn up to $16/hr!
Work as little or as much as you want. NPD 
Research is hiring workers to take surveys 
and test products, email is all thats needed. 
Apply at www.paidonlineresearch.info   2-1-
5-14
Translator-Interpreter, English-Spanish, 
needed for immigration law office - PT. 
Resume to: robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com. 
2-2-11-5-14
DELIVERY DRIVER
GOLDEN BUDDHA
Call 352-213-0846   2-1-11-3-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
UF Stadium Concessions Now Hiring!
Located in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, 
Centerplate is hiring Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Runners to work flexible hours. Apply in person 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM, Monday-Friday. Phone:(352)375-4683 x6500.    2-4-
11-14
CNAs who believe in compassionate care & 
uncompromising services are encouraged to apply on-line at http://ck546.ersp.biz/employ -
ment. Strict background checks/drug screen. 12hr shifts, days, nights & wkends avail.2-8-11-7-14
Veterinary Technician/Assistant
Experienced full/part time.
Some weekends & holidays.
Apply in person at Jonesville Animal 
Hospital 14145 W Newberry Rd. Newberry
2-9-11-7-14.
Energy Analyst
Professional and analytic work associated 
with the supply and transporatation of natural gas. Results oriented position that exercises considerable independent judgment and decision-making. Minimum Requirements include: Bachelors degree in Economics, Finance or Engineering; 3 years experience with thorough knowledge of statistical and economic analysis techiniques; exceptional problem-solving skills; proficiency with MS Office applications.Starting Salary: $52,000
Please mail, fax , or e-mail resume to:
Florida Gas Utility, Attn: HR,4619 NW 53rd Ave, Gainesville, FL 32606Fax: 352-334-0789E-mail: HR@flgas.com            2-2-11-2-14GLAUCOMA in your family? FREE 
SCREENING available for all. Participants 
who qualify & wish to participate in research 
will receive financial reimbursement. Call Dr. 
Levy or Cathleen Courtney 352-331-2020.   
2-16-20-16
● FREE HIV TESTING ●
(mouth swab) for UF studentsGatorWell Health Promotion Svs.Call 273-4450 for appointment.    2-4-11-6-16
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-20-70-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-20-70-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
12-7-141-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Fr-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10448-15-10-95-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-20-10-70-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
LOST DIGITAL VIDEO CAMERA
PANASONIC SDR-H40 42x
If you still have it, please call me back! No 
questions asked.
(850)543-3762
REWARD $500
2-24-31-25IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-20-70-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-20-09-70-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-20-70-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
MATH TUTOR
First hour FREE. 11 years experience. 
Bilingual. Call Francisco at 352-494-8582   2-25-36-15
INSURANCE WE REPRESENT
OVER 100 COMPANIES
HOME, AUTO AND LIABILITY
WHY PAY MORE? 371 9696
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com    2-18-
27-15
Beauty in the Blocks Quilts & More
Making custom-made quilts & t-shirt quilts.Great for special occasions & preserving event t-shirts!Go to www.beautyintheblocks.com for more information on ordering a quilt.   2-1-11-5-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-20-70-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-20-70-16
A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
4-20-70-16
Sports
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011ALLIGATOR
www.alligatorSports.org
By ANTHONY CHIANG
Alligator Staff Writer
achiang@alligator.org
 
It didn’t take long for Urban 
Meyer to get back into college foot-
ball.
After resigning from his job as 
Florida’s coach on Dec. 8, Meyer was officially introduced Monday by ESPN as a college football game and studio analyst.
As part of the 
deal, the former coach will work a weekly regular-season game and 
offer studio anal-ysis. Meyer will also take part in ESPN’s College GameDay pro-
gram every Saturday morning, while still keeping a position at UF.
“I’m going to work directly with 
Jeremy (Foley) on the foundation and help in that aspect,“ he said. “It hasn’t been finalized yet. And it will have no impact on what I do on ESPN.”
Meyer will begin his new job on 
television Wednesday as a studio analyst for the network’s National Signing Day special on ESPNU.
“[My family is] fired up,” Meyer 
said. “They are excited. And I’m 
FORMER GATORS alligatorSports Podcast TEEING OFF WITH ADAM BERRY
n Pittsburgh Steelers center Maur -
kice Pouncey could still play in the 
Super Bowl on Sunday despite a high left ankle sprain, coach Mike Tomlin said Monday.n Adam Berry, Tyler Jett and Greg Luca 
review the week in UF football, Janoris Jen -
kins’ arrest and Stan Drayton’s departure. They also debate who is the best player on the basketball team. Subscribe on iTunes.n Urban Meyer’s new job could require him to provide his honest opinion of the 
Gators, which he was often reluctant to do for the media at UF. ... Rather than covering the Pro Bowl, NFL.com ran an AP story  in which the second line reads, “...a game not nearly as interesting as that score might suggest, did nothing to repair the tattered image of the NFL’s all-star contest.” Great self-promotion.Meyer
Matt Tripp / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman center Patric Young and the rest of the Gators re-
serves have provided crucial minutes this season.
n THE GATORS HAVE EIGHT PLAYERS AVERAG-
ING AT LEAST 13 MINUTES PER GAME.
By GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
gluca@alligator.org
 
As the Gators enter a demanding final stretch, the 
starting five at least know they have some support. 
Last year, Florida struggled to put more than five qual-
ity options on the floor, but the 2010-11 team features a 
bench deep enough to keep its starters fresh as the South-eastern Conference schedule grinds on. 
This added depth will be critical as Florida approaches 
the taxing conclusion to its season — a run of nine games in which six are against teams in the RPI top 50. 
Florida (16-5, 5-2 SEC) begins that stretch of difficult 
competition against No. 23 Vanderbilt (15-5, 3-3 SEC) to-
night at 9 in the O’Connell Center.
“Coach trusts us and he knows what he’s going to get 
when he puts us in the game,” freshman center Patric 
Young said.
Last season, Florida struggled with fatigue. The start-
ers were forced to carry an unreasonably heavy load, as only eight players appeared in 12 or more games and only six averaged at least 13 minutes per contest. 
So far this season, the Gators have 10 players who have 
played at least 12 games, with eight averaging at least 13 minutes. 
“We’re a better team than we were a year ago because 
we’ve been able to put those guys in the game, and they’ve 
been reliable,” coach Billy Donovan said. 
The improvement of Florida’s team is due not only to 
the freshmen’s ability to provide minutes, but also to their 
production in those minutes. 
Guard Scottie Wilbekin has been an effective sub for 
starters Erving Walker and Kenny Boynton, as the fresh-Bench key as UF enters stretch runMeyer 
accepts 
ESPN job
Gators preparing for make-or-break week under national spotlight
Billy Donovan often stresses to his players the impor -
tance of focusing on the things they can control. This 
week, that could include their own destiny.
Florida will play Vanderbilt and Kentucky, against 
which the Gators went 0-4 last year. Both will be televised on ESPN at 9 p.m., today and Saturday. GameDay will even be in town Saturday as all eyes in the college basket-ball world turn toward Gainesville.
The stakes are fairly obvious: Win, and Florida will 
have the upper hand in its division the rest of the year. Lose, and this season starts to bear an even more uncomfortable resem-blance to 2009-10.
“I think these games are huge,” 
senior center Vernon Macklin said. “We’ve got two games at home against two great teams, so I think we need to go out there and play well and try to get these wins.”
Since the ‘04s romped all over the O’Connell Center floor, the Gators have yet to put together a 10-win Southeastern Conference season. Florida finished the last two years 9-7 in SEC play and went just 8-8 in 2007-08.
UF currently sits at 5-2 with plenty of winnable games 
left to play. If the Gators manage to win those and once again get swept by Vanderbilt and Kentucky, they will still finish 10-6 — a record that somehow might be good enough to win the muddled SEC East and will definite-SEE FOOT, p AGE 15
SEE HOOpS, p AGE 16
Adam Berry
Bad News Berry
aberry@alligator.org
Twitter: @adamdberry“We’re a better team than we were a year 
ago because we’ve been able to put those 
guys in the game, and they’ve been reli -
able.”
Billy Donovan
Florida basketball coach
SEE ADAM, p AGE 16By MATT WATTS
Alligator Writer
 
Watching SportsCenter at 
3 a.m., it’s possible a commer -
cial for the Florida women’s 
basketball team espousing the word “obsessed” has graced the screen.  
Obsessed is UF’s bulletin-
board material. It’s motiva-tion. It’s the key to their goal: championships. 
But after suffering a four-
game losing streak, capped by a clear subpar effort against LSU, coach Amanda Butler and her staff called a meet-ing. One of the main topics up 
for discussion was the team’s 
dedication. 
“How are you demonstrat-
ing to your teammates … that 
you’re truly obsessed — if 
you are?” Butler and her staff asked the players. “If you mean you’re obsessed about winning a championship — if 
you’re obsessed with the idea 
of beating Mississippi State — what should it look like?”
Butler said that type of un-
wavering commitment ought to be readily visible and un-questionable.
“They should be able to 
look in your eye and see it,” she said. 
The coaches issued a chal-
lenge after that meeting. 
Sitting below .500 in the 
Southeastern Conference, and currently projected as one of the first four teams out of 
the NCAA Tournament, the 
time to respond is now, Butler said. It appears the Gators were 
listening.
Florida has won two 
straight SEC games for the first time all season, and the com-posure problems that plagued the team during its skid are 
becoming a distant memory 
after the Gators closed out late rallies from Alabama and Mississippi State.
Now, UF is the thankful re-
cipient of its only homestand in conference play when Ole Miss and Vanderbilt visit Gainesville in succession. 
Should the Gators win both, 
they could vault into the top five in the SEC standings after sitting as low as 10th nearly a 
week ago.
Guard Jaterra Bonds was 
also named the SEC Freshman 
of the Week after leading the team with 14 rebounds for the 
week and dropping 12 points 
in the win over Alabama. She had eight boards in the contest and recorded her first blocked 
shot. 
“She’s going to become one 
of the best point guards in this 
league,” Butler said.
A former SEC standout 
point guard in her own right, Butler said Bonds is always quick to review film and cor -rect mistakes. That willing-
ness to learn has sped her 
evolution as a player.
It’s also part of being “ob-
sessed.”
The Gators have never been 
shy about their goals. They’re tired of the men’s team hog-ging all the rafter space. 
But with only seven games 
left on the conference sched-ule, Butler is pressuring her team to respond to the chal-
lenge they accepted when 
they put on the orange and blue.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011 n ALLIGATOR, 15
Saj Guevara / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Jaterra Bonds was named SEC Freshman of 
the Week after scoring 12 points in UF’s win over Alabama. 
Team inspired by Butler’s obsessionBy JESSE SIMONTON
Alligator Staff Writer
jsimonton@alligator.org
 
Baseball America just ranked them the 
No. 1 team in the nation. 
They return their entire weekend rota-
tion and nearly their whole starting lineup. 
They added a top recruiting class, includ-
ing a top-10 MLB Draft pick.  
And yet, one questions lingers over the 
Gators baseball team: What happened at the College World Series last season?
Florida was drubbed twice in Omaha, 
Neb., en route to an early exit and disap-pointing finish to an otherwise successful season.
“We don’t really talk a whole lot about 
last year,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “It was pretty obvious we didn’t play well. We’ll use it as motivation from time to time, but last year was last year.”  
Despite fielding an extremely young 
team, Florida was domi-nant throughout the 2010 
campaign and arrived in 
Omaha ready to capture 
the school’s first national championship. Led by five Freshman All-Amer -
icans, UF rolled through the Southeastern Confer -
ence and was the first 
team to advance to the CWS. 
But the unfailing pitching, timely hitting 
and error-free baseball the Gators played all season were absent in the Midwest.
Nerves, excitement, wide eyes and blind 
eyes were all reasons several Gators said they fell short in the tournament. O’Sullivan said those are simply easy answers, but truthfully, they just got outplayed.
Nevertheless, leaders like sophomore 
shortstop Nolan Fontana and senior sec-
ond baseman Josh Adams admitted the en-
vironment affected the players mentally . 
“We were blind going in,” Fontana 
said. “I feel like we know what to expect if we’re fortunate enough to make it back this year.”
Adams said the crowd, cameras and at-
mosphere are some things the team will be better prepared for if it reaches its goal of 
making it back to Omaha. 
“We had no idea what the crowd was 
going to be like,” Adams said. “Playing 
here, you have 5,000 people in the stands, maybe 10 people tailgate. Playing there, you have 25,000 people in the stands and 10,000 people tailgate.” 
Lessons learned from their hardship ex-
perience seem to be a driving force in their 
motivation to get back to college baseball’s 
most prestigious tournament. 
“We were nervous,” Fontana said. “But 
ultimately , it is just another game. We’re looking forward to working day-in and day-out to get that the ultimate goal.” 
“As a coach, you can give a player a lot,” 
O’Sullivan said. “You can coach a lot of dif-ferent ways and give them lots of things to 
improve on, but one thing a coach can not 
give a player is experience.”
“Hopefully we can build on last year’s 
season and learn from the pluses and mi-nuses,” he said. “Hopefully we can go a step further.”CWS failure 
motivates No. 1 GatorsSTAFF REPORT
 
The Florida men’s golf team entered 
the JU invitational hoping to prove it-
self worthy of its No.  3 national rank-
ing, and the Gators appear to be well on their way to doing so. 
The Gators shot a 7-under-par 569 to 
build an astonishing 17-stroke lead over second-place North Florida. 
After 36 holes, senior Bank Vongvanij led UF’s onslaught with a 6-under-par 
138, outplaying the rest of the field by 
three strokes. 
Two of Vongvanij’s teammates, se-
nior Andres Echavarria 
and sophomore Phillip 
Choi, posted 1-under-par scores of 143 to tie for third. Sophomore Tyler McCumber posted a re-
spectable 1-over-par 145. 
Tommy Mou’s 8-over-par 152 was the only blemish on the day for the Gators, but by rule, his score won’t even 
be included in Florida’s team total.
Florida’s domination of the competi-
tion on Monday is best summarized by 
a couple of staggering statistics: Vong-
vanij, Echavarria and Choi were three 
of just five golfers to post under-par scores in the 75-player field. The scores of the aforementioned trio, as well as the 1-over-par 145 of McCumber were 
four of the top eight scores of the day. 
Day 2 action begins today at 8:40 
a.m.UF leads JU Invitational after 36 holes
Meyer expected to discuss Florida in new role
still going to be able to spend as much 
time as I would have hoped.”
Meyer expects his new job will only 
require him to be away from home on Fridays and Saturdays during the sea-son. 
But it may require him to offer his 
opinions on the Gators. 
ESPN Executive Vice President Nor -
by Williamson insists the network is not against the idea of selecting Meyer to work UF or Southeastern Conference games. Williamson compared the poten-tially awkward situation to ESPN college football analyst Lou Holtz commenting on Notre Dame.“There is going to be no sort of mor -
atorium or let’s not talk Florida” Wil-liamson said. “Somebody is stepping onto that program with an unbelievable insight and access to the inner workings of not only Florida, but the SEC. It’s our goal to utilize that.”
Meyer agreed with Williamson but 
admitted to having a lack of objectivity when it comes to the Gators.
“I’m a Florida fan,” Meyer said. “And 
I’m not going to be ashamed of that.”FOOT , from page 14O’Sullivan
Golf
“How are you demon -
strating to your team -
mates ... that you’re 
truly obsessed — if you 
are?”
Amanda Butler
UF women’s basketball coach
“I’m a Florida fan. And I’m not 
going to be ashamed of that. ”
Urban Meyer 
Former Florida football coachVongvanij paces team with 6-underman leads the team in assist-to-
turnover ratio. 
Sophomore Erik Murphy pro-
vides a sixth scoring option, while freshman Will Yeguete leads the team in rebounds per minute. 
The bench has also been a home 
to defensive stoppers, as athletic freshmen Young and Casey Prather have provided strong minutes of their own. 
“I think we’re coming along 
pretty well, especially compared to the beginning of the year,” Young said. “We were just scared about doing something wrong, and we’re 
not really worried about that any-
more.”
The bench has been a constant 
source of energy this season and played a vital role in a 13-1 second-
half run against Mississippi State on 
Saturday. 
A lineup of Murphy, Prather, Wil-
bekin, Yeguete and Walker turned a 
nine-point deficit into a three-point 
lead, keeping the Gators in a game they would eventually lose. 
“I was pretty encouraged by 
that, seeing that those guys were out 
there doing their thing and bringing 
us back in the game,” Young said. The Gators’ reserves outscored 
the Bulldogs’ bench 17-0 in the game, as each of the five backups who played recorded a basket. The group also notched 15 re-
bounds, three steals and two assists, providing a silver lining to an other -
wise cloudy performance. “If there was one bright spot in 
the game, it was that we got some good minutes out of those guys,” Donovan said. “Then, being able to come back and perform and give 
us that kind of boost off the bench 
tomorrow is going to be just as im-portant.”16, ALLIGATOR n TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2011
1. Erving Walker, Jr.
 2. Chandler Parsons, Sr.
3. Vernon Macklin, Sr.
Macklin was once again a scoring presence in the post for the 
Gators this week, as he scored 23 points against Georgia and 10 
against Mississippi State. The senior center used his signature 
hook shot to pad his team-leading 57.8 shooting percentage with a 14-for-23 week. Macklin also stepped up his rebounding game, recording 15 boards — seven offensive — over the two games.Parsons continued his strong rebounding stretch, hauling in double-digit boards against both sets of Bulldogs. The senior forward also played a major role in the team’s double-overtime win over Georgia, putting up nine points and four rebounds in the deciding period. Parsons even made his impact felt on the defensive end, as he recorded ﬁ  ve steals over the two games.
Walker’s game-tying three with one second left in overtime was the 
catalyst in Florida’s 104-91 double-overtime win over Georgia. The junior guard tied for the team lead with 24 points while also chip-ping in a game-high ﬁ  ve assists. He followed that impressive showing with another strong performance at Mississippi State, where he once again led the team in points (18) and assists (four).
Standings
(Through Week 3)
T1. Chandler Parsons               T1. Erving Walker   3. Kenny Boynton               4. Vernon Macklin                   5.  Alex Tyus
         6 POINTS                          6 POINTS                                 3 POINTS              2 POINT            1 POINT
H  t Sh  ts
H  t Sh  ts
H  t Sh  ts
Florida’s young reserves spell starters with energy, hustle stats
HOOPS , from page 14
Rosa Taveras / Alligator Staff
ly put them back in the NCAA Tournament for a second 
straight year.
Don’t get me wrong. This team is flawed — maybe even 
fatally flawed come NCAA Tournament time. But Florida 
has won eight of its last 10 and boasts the No. 19 RPI in the 
country, according to RealTimeRPI.com. 
Judging by those numbers, the Gators appear to be on 
their way to another appearance in the Big Dance. But their schedule is about to take a difficult turn. In addition to playing Vanderbilt and Kentucky twice, UF will face Geor -gia, Tennessee and SEC West-leading Alabama before the 
season’s end.
“Coming to the halfway point here, it’s certainly a grind 
not only for us, but for everybody,” Donovan said. 
Whether UF can withstand its grueling late-season 
schedule remains to be seen. It’s hard to predict which 
Florida team will show up on a nightly basis — even for the Gators. Donovan agreed earlier this season that his team was “mystifying” at times, and freshman center Pat-ric Young echoed that sentiment Monday.
“We’re not always really focused,” Young said. “Coach 
doesn’t know what he’s going to get out of us sometimes because sometimes it seems like we’re not ready to play.”UF might suffer another late-season collapse like it 
did last year by losing its final three regular-season SEC 
contests. It could even finish 0-4 against Vanderbilt and 
Kentucky again, or drop more winnable games like it did against South Carolina and Mississippi State.
The Gators could just as easily win 11 or 12 confer -
ence games. They could surprise everyone by outplaying the ever-consistent Commodores and the talented young Wildcats or tearing through the rest of the SEC East.
By the week’s end, after UF has played high-profile 
games against top-level conference competition on the na-tional stage of ESPN, Florida will have either taken control of its season or put its fate in someone else’s hands.ADAM , from page 14