VOLUME 106 ISSUE 122 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaCutout text 
goes here. 
Please use 
complete 
sentences.
Students, professors react to death of Trayvon Martin
Some said the situation reveals current racism, pg 4. 
Man charged with using credit card he found in parking lot
Police said he used the card to buy a computer and gas, pg 5.  
85/61
 The Avenue has The Shins new album:
“Port of Morrow” dropped Tuesday and it’s 
mellow and surfer-y, pg. 8. FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Still Occupied
Occupy supporter Annette Gilley, 58, of Waldo, talks with activists on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Wednesday afternoon during the Union Street Farmers Market. Supporters have occupied the downtown plaza since Oct. 12. Read the story on page 5.
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Writer
Three chemical incidents have called ﬁ  re and police de-
partment ofﬁ  cials to Sisler Hall in this school year, and the 
chemistry department is reacting.
The ﬁ  rst two events — both explosions, one on Oct. 11 
and one on Jan. 11 — happened in synthesis labs. The third, which happened March 15, involved a student who felt faint, according to a University Police report.
In response, the department and UF’s Environmental 
Health & Safety division of Business Affairs have partnered to emphasize the signiﬁ  cance of staying safe. Their focus is training students to always think about safety, said Daniel 
Talham, chair of the chemistry depart-ment.
“We’re trying to change the culture so 
people take safety as seriously here as they 
do in an industrial lab,” he said. “Where we’ve fallen down is really stressing the importance that safety is everybody’s re-sponsibility, all day, every day.”
After the October explosion, EHS rep-
resentatives came to synthesis labs and ran 
special review sessions about handling hazardous materials and using protective equipment.
The students were concerned and cooperative, said EHS 
Director Bill Properzio.
“Nobody working in these labs wants to injure them-
selves,” he said.
To have three incidents within a relatively short amount 
of time is unusual, said UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Barber. But he said it’s not unusual that they occurred in a chemistry building. UPD is not currently involved in the EHS’s ongoing investigations of the incidents.
The two explosions involved students from a research 
group under chemistry professor Alan Katritzky, and in-volved sodium azide, Talham said.
Sodium azide is a commonly used reagent, Talham said. UF chemistry 
department to focus on safety
ON CAMPUS
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
Students can try Cheerwine-ﬂ  avored 
food today at a fan party for the popular 
southeastern cherry-ﬂ  avored beverage.
Today at Beaty Market from 4 p.m. to 6 
p.m. students can receive free food, drinks and prizes at a Cheerwine Fan Party.Students can get the Cheerwine drink, 
Cheerwine-ﬂ  avored wings, Cheerwine-ﬂ  a-vored cupcakes and Cheerwine ice cream ﬂ  oats. They can also win rafﬂ  e prizes, which include Cheerwine signs, coolers, T-shirts and hats, said Joy Ritchie, who works in the Cheerwine marketing department. Students can enter to win a Cheerwine scooter that will be given away in April.“We are excited Cheerwine is on campus 
and wanted to throw a fan party,” Ritchie said.
She said UF is the only school that will be 
having a party.
The beverage teamed up with Pepsi Bev-
erage Co. in January to bring Cheerwine to Florida. UF is the only school in the state that offers it.It is available by fountain in the two din-
ing halls and at all campus convenience stores, Ritchie said.
Family youth and community sciences se-
nior Kelli Serio loves Cheerwine and usually buys some when she’s at the Reitz Union.
“The wings sound really interesting,” the 
22-year-old said. “I’m deﬁ  nitely going to have to try them.”Cheerwine to host fan party today at Beaty MarketTYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
second member of the Sigma Phi 
Epsilon fraternity and charged him with stealing about $600 worth of plastic sheets from a Home Depot last week.
Brandon N. Fernandez, 19, of 1015 NW 21st Ave., was charged Tuesday with theft and ﬂ  eeing the scene after Home Depot employees tried to stop him on March 14.
Fernandez, Austin Mobley and 
a third person drove away from the Home Depot in another fra-ternity member’s car, according to police. Fernandez did not return a message from the Alligator seeking comment Wednesday.
Fernandez, Mobley and the third 
person loaded six boxes of plastic sheets into a cart and left it near the garden center exit of Home Depot, located at 5150 NW 13th St. Mobley then distracted a cashier while Fer-nandez pushed the cart out into the parking lot, according to police.
The store manager and a securi-
ty guard stopped the group at their car. The three gave the boxes back Second student charged with theft
SEE THEFT, PAGE 4SEE CHEM, PAGE 4Properzio
Police still investigating caseNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 122 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Marissa Prieto, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
                                                                   Elesa P aschke, Heather Pollard, 
  Raven Pritchett, David Williams, 
  Nika Zecevic
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 A
dvertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
83/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
83/54THUNDER
STORMS
85/63PARTLY
CLOUDY
86/60THUNDER
STORMS
85/61
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Summer Job and Internship 
Fair
Today, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.Reitz Union ColonnadeEmployers in attendance will represent the city of Gainesville, the state of Florida and the rest of the na-tion offering part-time and full-time summer jobs and internships. Participants will have opportunities to de-liver resumes, ask questions and interact with employ-ers. Open to UF students and alumni only. For more infor -
mation, visit www.crc.ufl.edu/summerjob.
Dance Marathon Kickoff 
CelebrationToday, 5 p.m.Flavet FieldDance Marathon is hosting a kickoff event today on Flavet Field at 5 p.m. to celebrate the region’s most successful stu-dent-run philanthropy. The event will feature catering from Texas Roadhouse and live entertainment. Tickets are $7 presale and $10 at the door. All proceeds benefit our local Children’s Miracle Network Hospital at Shands Hospital for Children. For more information, visit flori-dadm.org.
Greeks Got Talent
Today, 6:30Phillips Center for Performing ArtsLambda Theta Alpha Latin Sorority Inc. presents the second annual Greeks Got Talent. Participants in the tal-ent show are members of the UF Greek community. Doors open at 6:30 at the Phillips Center in Squitieri Studio Theatre.
RUB presents: Star Wars vs. 
Star TrekToday, 8-11 p.m.Reitz UnionThere is one important ques-tion that all sci-fi enthusiasts must answer: Star Wars or Star Trek? Come explore the next galaxy and final fron-tier with RUB. Enjoy some Spocklate chip cookies and Yoda soda, create your own glow stick lightsabers and Klingon vinyl cling-ons, and try your luck at our trivia and costume contests. There will also be a Star Wars vs. Star Trek laser tag starting at 7 p.m.
Nerdy & Dirty: A Science 
Performance ExperienceToday, 9:30pmThe Laboratory, 818 W University AveThe Association for Sexy Science presents a tale of desire, adventure, music, probing and breathily ex-plained scientific phenom-UF’s Delta Delta Delta so-rority, Women’s Student Association and Recurso will host the third annual Running For Water 5K walk/race to build water wells in south Sudan. Go to runningforwa-teruf.com to register, donate and find out more informa-tion. Registration is $16.
College of Pharmacy Literacy 
Carnival
Saturday, noon to 4 p.m.Flavet FieldThis carnival will promote literacy in the children of Gainesville through mini-games. There will be free pizza, snow cones, a bounce house and a large slide.
Star Gazing at Dudley Farm                
Saturday, 8 p.m. to 11 p.m.18730 West Newberry Rd.  The Alachua County Astronomy Club will explain the planets, nebulas, con-stellations and clusters with high-powered telescopes and assist and direct your view-ing. For more information, contact  352-472-1142 or visit friendsofdudleyfarm.org.
5K to HEAL
Sunday, 8:30 a.m.Park-N-ride lot across from Southwest Recreation CenterPut your New Year’s reso-lutions to the test in this 5K fundraiser to benefit the VetMed chapter of Project HEAL. Register in advance online at www.active.com for $15 or on race day for $20. 
Walkers are welcome.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
correction
In Wednesday’s edition of the Alligator, a headline incorrectly stated that the City of Gainesville is trying to switch utility providers. Alachua County is trying to switch providers.ena. Featuring special mu-
sical guests Jovian Junction Orchestra (recently seen at SXSW), Christopher Moon-Walken’ Dancers and DJ Panda. Tickets are on a $5 to $10 sliding scale.
Prom dress drive
Today to FridayWomen’s History Month is hosting its first prom dress drive benefiting Gainesville area high schools. Donate gently used prom/special occasion dresses to local high school students who might not otherwise be able to attend prom. Drop boxes will be located in all resi-dence hall common areas.
Celtic Crossroads
Friday, 7:30 p.m.Phillips Center for Performing ArtsWitness the rhythms and choreography of Celtic Crossroads. Members of Celtic Crossroads create a fresh perspective of Celtic art and culture, paying homage to traditional Irish music while incorporating 21st century representa-tions as well. Student tick-ets are $12. Visit perform-ingarts.ufl.edu for more information.
Giddy Up Gators 5K
Saturday, 8 a.m.Flavet FieldThe Student Occupational Therapy Association will host its annual 5K run and walk to raise money for the organization HOrses help-ing PEople (HOPE). HOPE is a nonprofit organization that uses equine assistance therapy to enrich the lives of individuals with dis-abilities.Register online at bit.ly/GiddyUp5K by March 9 to be guaranteed a T-shirt. More information on Facebook: Giddy Up Gators 5K.
Milton Marathon
Saturday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.Rogers 110Join James Newlin’s Authoring the Self in 17th Century British Literature students as they present to you their creative inter -
pretations of John Milton’s “Paradise Lost” through a daylong reading.
Running for Water 5K
Saturday, 8:30 a.m.Boulware Springs ParkMONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
but drove away while a Home Depot employee 
called police.
GPD investigators found the license plate 
on a surveillance video and got in contact with Mobley, who turned himself in March 15. Mob-ley later told officers Fernandez was with him.
The trio planned to use the plastic sheets at a 
Sigma Phi Epsilon pool party last weekend, ac-cording to police. The third person has not yet been identified, and GPD spokeswoman Cpl. Angelina Valuri said she expects the investiga-tion will continue.
Fernandez and Mobley have been temporar -
ily kicked out of the fraternity. Carlos Gordian, president of the UF chapter of Sigma Phi Epsi-lon, said he wants to see if the two will be pros-ecuted before making a final decision.
Mobley met with a Sigma Phi Epsilon review 
board Sunday, but Gordian said he did not know Fernandez was involved until he was arrested.
Gordian also said he does not know who the 
third person was or if that per -
son is affiliated with the frater -
nity. Fernandez did not return Gordian’s calls Wednesday afternoon.
“I have not spoken with 
Austin or Brandon individu-ally, and I can’t talk about all the specifics in this case 
because I don’t know them yet,” Gordian said. “But I can tell you Sig Ep does not condone these actions. We take them seriously.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.SARAH LOFTUS
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Shands plan to relocate a 
drug and alcohol rehab center to 
a vacant hotel overcame another hurdle Wednesday night.
The property Shands plans 
to use for the new center was rezoned for residential use at a meeting of the Alachua County Planning Commission.
The property holds a vacant 
building of a former Residence Inn at 4001 SW 13th St. near Wil-liston Road, which will be trans-formed into a rehab center for people overcoming drug abuse, alcohol abuse and eating disor -
ders. 
The rehab center will also add 
about 20 employees.
Participants in the program 
will now be able to live at the fa-cility, but living there will not be mandatory. They will be allowed to leave the grounds any time they want.
Patient care at the center will 
not be covered by insurance com-panies.
Harvey Budd, the chairman 
of the planning commission, said he is happy the center will be ex-panded.
“I think it is well-needed for 
the community and town,” he said.Mary Anderson, a Gainesville 
resident, said the new center will help the community by giving residents easy access to abuse treatment.
The new location is not far 
from the Meridian Behavioral Healthcare Inc. and Shands at UF, Anderson said.
“It has all things going for it 
for those persons who are ready to change,” Anderson said.Steven Lachnicht, director at 
the Alachua County Department of Growth Management, said he doesn’t think the new center will hurt the community in any way.
“I don’t see an external differ -
ence,” he said.
There will probably be even 
less traffic from the center than there was from the hotel, Lach-nicht said.
Lachnicht, who lives near the 
new location for the center, said community members should be concerned about people who don’t get the medical care they need rather than people who will be at this facility getting help.
For Anderson, a better facil-
ity to help people suffering from drug and alcohol problems is personal, she said.
“It was tragic,” she said.She worked as a lab technician 
in a hospital, drawing blood from substance abusers. Some of her patients died, she said.
She said the center will give 
people an opportunity to get bet-ter.
“It leaves the door open to 
someone who is ready to say yes to life,” Anderson said. “I bet there is not a single family in the community that hasn’t had one member of their family affected by drug abuse.”4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
Craig Brashier, planning project manager for Causseaux, Hewett, & Walpole, Inc., explains to the Alachua 
County planning committee details about the future rehab facility located at 4001 SW 13th St.
loCAl
County planning commission moves forward with plans for rehab center
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Writer
Neighbors in a gated Sanford 
community were the only ones 
who actually heard the gunshot. Now, the country is analyzing the sound bite of Trayvon Martin’s last seconds. A cry. A gunshot. Then, silence.
Advocacy groups and others, 
including some UF students and professors, are demanding the ar -
rest of George Zimmerman, who shot 17-year-old Martin on Feb. 26.
Zimmerman, 28, told authori-
ties he shot Martin in self-defense after the two began to fight. Mar -
tin was unarmed that evening as he walked home from a store with Skittles and an iced tea.
In a 911 call released by the 
City of Sanford, a neighbor spoke with dispatchers with yelling in the background. A scream can be heard and, five seconds later, a gunshot.
Police arrested and questioned 
Zimmerman, who has a concealed weapon license, but he was later freed. Now, celebrities like Spike Lee and a change.org petition with about 900,000 signatures are calling for Zimmerman’s arrest.
Vincent Adejumo, a UF Ph.D. 
student and a member of the Black Graduate Student Organization, said Zimmerman should be held accountable for Martin’s death.
“He took his life for no reason,” 
Adejumo said.Steven Noll, a professor of 
Florida history, said the state has a legacy of racism, especially in Central Florida.
“White people tend to think 
that racism is over,” Noll said. “Black people have legitimate reasons for not seeing things the same way.”
UF law professor Michelle Ja-
cobs said she’s not surprised Zim-merman hasn’t been charged.
“When a black person gets 
killed in questionable circum-stances by a white person, no one should be surprised that law en-forcement was slow to launch an investigation,” she said.
Jamie Taylor lives in Retreat 
at Twin Lakes, the neighborhood where Martin was shot. She de-nied reports that Zimmerman was part of a neighborhood watch team and said that no official group did neighborhood patrols.
“Everyone feels horrible about 
what happened,” she said.
Adejumo said he agreed that 
the situation was horrible but said national media should focus more on the victim than the controver -
sial circumstances.
“At the end of the day, we’re all 
God’s children,” Adejumo said.
Contact Shelby Webb at swebb@
alligator.org.Students react to the 
death of Trayvon Martintheft , from page 1Tarps were intended for fraternity party
Panel now reviews experiments’ safety
But when it’s transformed in 
large quantities, the situation can become dangerous. Hydrogen azide, a volatile and potentially ignitable gas, could have formed and caused the explosions, Tal-ham said.
The most recent event may 
have involved a repositioned fume hood, Talham said.
The hood is designed to venti-
late potentially hazardous fumes. The lower the hood is, the more powerful the suction is. If a stu-dent pushes it up for convenience or to reach further underneath, the ventilation is not as strong.
Representatives from the chem-
istry department, EHS and chemi-cal engineering department also formed a review panel to examine potentially dangerous synthesis experiments, Talham said.
Since January, synthesis stu-
dents in professor Katritzky’s group have been restricted to only performing experiments approved by the panel, Properzio said.
“It’s four or five sets of eyes to look and make sure all the impor -
tant safety questions have been asked,” Talham said.
The panel is still in trial stages, 
but its members have examined about 50 projects so far. This fall, they hope to expand.
Sodium azide has not been re-
approved for use in Katritzky’s group, Properzio said.
“I can’t recall us ever shutting 
down or doing the level of inten-sive review we’ve had to do,” he said.
Contact Julia Glum at jglum@
alligator.org.
CheM , from page 1“White people tend to 
think that racism is over.”
Steven Noll
professorfernandez
 THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
AP Photo
World Water Day
A young Indian boy drinks water from a public tap in Agartala, India on Wednesday. 
� POLICE SAY HE USED THE 
CARD TO BUY A COMPUTER, GAS AND A CAR BATTERY.
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
A Gainesville man was ar -
rested Tuesday afternoon and 
charged with using a credit card he found in a parking lot.
Mark Anthony J. Radford, 22, 
found a credit card on March 16 belonging to Arleen M. Mazzella, according to Gainesville Police.
Radford then charged more 
than $640 to the card from March 16 to 17, police said. 
He was charged with grand 
theft and uttering a forged in-strument, which is when a per -son signs another person’s name 
unlawfully.
He declined 
to comment when contacted by the Alliga-tor.
At about 10 
p.m. on March 16, Radford 
used the card at a Sunrise Food Mart for about $30 worth of gas. 
He then used the card to buy a 
computer from a Walmart Super -
center for about $315, according to an arrest report.
At about noon the next day, 
he bought a car battery for about $150 at CARQUEST Auto Parts. 
He then went to Midas for a 
brake repair job for about $150.
Radford signed Mazzella’s name on all four purchases, po-lice said.
Mazzella said it should not 
have been that easy for Radford to use her credit card without showing identification.
“There isn’t any monitoring,” 
she said. “They should say, ‘Let me see your ID’ with the card.”
Contact Samantha Shavell at 
sshavell@alligator.org. Man arrested, charged with using credit card he found in parking lotCHRIS ALCANTARA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Occupy Wall Street move-
ments from across the Southeast 
will meet this weekend for a gathering north of Gainesville.
The Southeastern Regional 
Convergence of Occupations, hosted by Occupy Gainesville, will offer workshops and group talks on social issues during its three-day run starting Friday.
Coinciding near the six-
month anniversary of the Occu-py Gainesville movement, the event aims to build a network of activists from the Caribbean to the Southeastern U.S., ac-cording to the event website.
The event, which will be held outside Brooker, is free and open to the public. Registration is available online.
The conference comes soon 
after scores of Occupy Wall Street protesters were arrested when Zuccotti Park was cleared out this weekend.
Josh Goldsmith, a 19-year-
old UF political science fresh-man, said the meeting will not help solve the problems the group is fighting against.
“If they think holding a mass 
conference of people complain-ing how everything is some-body else’s fault is beneficial, all the more power to them,” he said. “The Occupy Movement is in its dying days. Its 15 min-utes of fame are up.”Occupy Gainesville 
to hold conference
Radford
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.EditorialTHURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Has your credit card ever been 
stolen?
53 TOTAL VOTES58% YES
42% NOTuesday’s question: Do you play Draw Something? Public Paddlings
Corporal punishment 
allowed in Florida
If you have children who attend public school in Florida, 
you might want to check them for bruises.
According to a recent report by NPR, Florida is one 
of 19 states that permit public school officials to paddle stu-dents.
The Florida Department of Education estimates that about 
3,661 students were subjected to corporal punishment in the state of Florida in the 2009-2010 school year.
To be fair, this figure is on the decline and represents only 
about .76 percent of all disciplinary actions taken in the state during that school year.
Still, one has to wonder why corporal punishment even 
exists at all.
Most of the counties with high numbers (more than 150 
incidents of paddling) during the 2009-2010 school year were in rural North Florida, near the Alabama and Georgia bor -
ders.
However, there were counties in South Florida, such as 
Highlands, Hendry and Hardee, which reported relatively high levels of corporate punishment.
One public school in Alachua County reported an incident 
of a student being paddled during this same school year.
Whether parents agree with this form of punishment, un-
der Florida law, school districts do not need parental con-sent.
In Levy County, which had more than 100 incidents of 
corporal punishment in the 2009-2010 school year, parent Te-nika Jones told NPR that her child’s elementary school sent home a letter asking permission to paddle students.
Jones said she refused to sign the waiver, but her 5-year-
old son, Gierrea Bostick, was still paddled after he slapped another boy on a school bus.
According to Jones, the paddling left welts on Gierrea’s 
bottom. Jones hopes to sue the Levy County School District even though the law is against her. However, attorneys can argue that excessive force was used against her son.
Clinical child psychologist Deborah Sendek told NPR that 
paddling does nothing to deter students from engaging in bad behavior.
But the debate continues.While some argue that punishment through negative re-
inforcement teaches kids discipline, others argue that it can lead to more violent behavior.
For instance, a 2006 study by the American Psychologi-
cal Association found, “adolescents who were more likely to engage in fighting, bullying, and victimization of others reported that their parents engaged in corporal punishment as a disciplining method.”
Again, this is just one study, but before we allow public 
schools to engage in this sort of disciplinary action, should we not be sure of its possible negative effects?
And, more importantly, if parents disagree with these dis-
ciplinary methods, should they not be allowed to opt their kids out of such punishment?UWire
US should push Israel away from war
As the debate over Iran’s nuclear program contin-
ues to intensify, one of two bad outcomes seems increasingly likely — a nuclear-armed Iran and 
a war with Iran that may or may not involve the U.S. But is there a way to avoid both?
Iran continues to claim its nuclear program is for 
peaceful purposes, including nuclear power and medi-cal research. But during the last decade it has repeatedly refused to give International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors full access to all its nuclear sites.
Although IAEA inspectors have not seen all of Iran’s 
nuclear facilities, they have never definitively stated that Iran has a nuclear weapons program. Nevertheless, at times, the inspectors have been suspicious of some of Iran’s nuclear activities.
Both the U.S. and Israel, as well as the European 
Union and several countries in the Persian Gulf, have concerns about the Iranian nuclear program, but there is no consensus on how to deal with the issue. The U.S. and Israel in particular have been at odds over how exactly to approach the problem.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu recently 
visited the U.S. and met with President Obama to dis-cuss the ongoing problems surrounding the Iranian nu-clear program. 
Netanyahu seems to be beating the drum of war while 
Obama has been more cautious and willing to let sanc-tions run their course.
Obama did clarify his stance recently, stating that he 
does not have a policy of simply containing a nuclear armed Iran once it has a nuclear weapon. His stated policy is he is committed to the prevention of an Iranian nuclear weapon.
If Israel does decide to unilaterally attack Iran, sev-
eral questions remain unanswered. Will the U.S. involve itself in another war? Does Israel have the military capa-bility to destroy Iran’s nuclear program?Answers to these questions 
are critical in Israel’s decision on whether or not to unilaterally at-tack Iran.
President Obama’s more cautious approach and his 
reliance on sanctions do seem to take their toll on Iran. Most notably, Iran’s currency, the rial, has lost over half its value since September, according to the Economic Times.
In a recent interview on CNN, Sen. Diane Feinstein, 
the chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said Iran is one to two years away from be-ing able to create a nuclear weapon. If this intelligence is correct, it may strengthen Obama’s position of allowing sanctions to continue to impact Iran before rushing to military action.
Last week brought an agreement to resume negotia-
tions between Iran and the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council along with Germany. There have been no details released about these negotia-tions, but if all parties are indeed willing to return to the negotiating table, this may be the best way to avoid a military confrontation.
For the time being, these new negotiations seem to be 
President Obama’s best option. Preventing Iran from ob-taining a nuclear weapon without taking military action against Iran would certainly be the best case scenario.
But Israel is still a wild card. Prime Minister Ne-
tanyahu does not appear to be as patient as President Obama. 
President Obama and defense and intelligence offi-
cials need to continue advising Israel against a unilateral attack while making Iran realize the U.S. is both will-ing and able to launch a military strike. But this will be easier said than done.
Jacob Keplar is a columnist for the University Daily Kan-
san at the University of Kansas.
Jacob Keplar
UWireLetters to the Editor THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Graduate assistants are not a “cost”
Cammy Abernathy, the dean of engineer-
ing, held a town hall meeting on March 12 
during which she welcomed discussion from the engineering faculty in regard to budget cuts requested from the provost’s office.
One of the options proposed and briefly 
discussed was cutting the budget for gradu-ate assistants across the entire college.
Every graduate assistant, faculty member 
and undergraduate student should strongly voice disagreement with this idea.
Whenever budget cuts start at the bot-
tom, there is a problem. It does not make sense to cut graduate assistants’ pay. These employees already work more hours than they are paid for and they generate prestige and recognition for their departments, col-leges and the university as a whole.
Graduate assistants in engineering al-
ready work more than 40 hours a week. Many of these graduate assistants are in-ternational students and therefore cannot take out most loans, get another job or move expenses to a credit card. Their workloads will remain the same, but their pay will de-crease.
We need questions answered.How will decreasing graduate assistants’ 
pay in one of the most celebrated colleges on campus attract better caliber students to UF in the future?
How does this speak to President Ma-
chen’s goal of improving graduate programs at UF?
Looking at graduate assistants and view-
ing them as a “cost” is always inappropri-ate.
What will be the “value added” back to 
the College of Engineering by hacking away at its entire graduate assistant population?
Patrick McHenry
Co-President
Graduate Assistants United
§ § §
Katie Waldman should resign
Tuesday night, the Unite Party trampled 
on the students of this university once again by failing to recognize the most qualified ap-plicants for several committee seats.It instead appointed members of its own 
party who will simply vote and act as told by their party leadership, not in the interest of the students.
Unite repeatedly voted not to open the 
floor to nominations so that those who were the most qualified couldn’t be considered.
These actions, while disgusting, are not 
what disturbed me the most about the meet-ing.
Sen. Katie Waldman’s appointment to 
the position of allocations chairwoman is an affront to the students of UF.
I do not question her qualifications, pas-
sion or work ethic. I question her ethical and moral fiber.
It is now common knowledge that Wald-
man was implicated by former Senate Presi-dent Pro Tempore Jason Tiemeier as being involved with the disposal of newspapers during the most recent Student Government election.
When asked about her involvement, 
Waldman’s response was obviously not only rehearsed, but coached.
If Waldman really did tell Tiemeier not to commit a highly unethical act, then why didn’t she step forward at the time?
If she is telling the truth, then her hands 
are clean and she would have had nothing to fear by stepping forward when said events occurred.
However, Waldman did not step for-
ward, and her silence speaks volumes about her and her involvement.
Unite Party spokeswoman Sen. Christina 
Bonarrigo stated it is not a citizen’s duty to stop a criminal action, and Waldman did “all that she was required to do” regarding this situation.
Is the minimum enough for not only a 
member of the Rules and Ethics Committee, but a student representative and leader?
Is the minimum a high enough standard 
for the leadership of this campus?
I say that it is not, and if Waldman plans 
to only do all she is required to do as the chairwoman of the Allocations Committee, she should resign now.
Max Stein
Assistant Minority Leader
Students Party
When the Florida legislature passed a bill requiring 
general drug testing for all state workers, our rep-resentatives and senators conveniently excluded 
themselves from this requirement. According to the Miami Herald, State Rep. Jimmie T. Smith stated that this was be-cause a U.S. Supreme Court case has held that requiring elect-ed officials to submit to the test would violate their rights. Be-cause Smith was a supporter of this new bill, it is an unspoken premise of his that the Supreme Court’s decision applied only to elected officials and does not apply to other state employ-ees.
Smith is being dishonest about this issue, and the people of 
Florida deserve to know the truth.
The Supreme Court case that Smith was referring to is 
Chandler v. Miller. In that case, Georgia passed a law requir -
ing elected officials to pass drug tests as a condition of service. The court ruled that the law was unconstitutional, in that it imposed an unreasonable search without special circum-stances being present. 
The court stated first that laws such as these impose a 
search on state workers, bringing into play the federal con-stitution’s provisions on searches. A search must be “reason-able” the court said, and that requires that either there is an  “individualized suspicion of wrongdoing,” or there are “spe-cial needs.”In this case, there is no individual-
ized suspicion of wrongdoing. That is, workers are not tested because there is a reasonable belief that they have violated some law with drug use. In-
stead, the law requires all workers to be subject to random testing, and those tested are just unlucky, rather than being suspected of crimes. So this test fails.
The court then turned to the issue of “special needs.” The 
court examined precedents and concluded, “[the] special need for drug testing must be substantial — important enough to override the individual’s acknowledged privacy interest, suf-ficiently vital to suppress the Fourth Amendment’s normal requirement of individualized suspicion.... Georgia has failed to show, in justification of [the law], a special need of that kind.” 
This case was different than other cases that upheld suspi-
cionless drug testing because the other cases dealt with issues such as law enforcement and certain jobs where safety could be severely compromised by the use of drugs. The court held that there was no showing of such special needs, and the law was therefore unconstitutional.
Nowhere in any of the court’s opinion did it rely on any 
distinction between elected officials and other state workers. I cannot fathom how anybody can truthfully claim that the case did rely on such a distinction.
Now, in Florida’s case, Smith relies on a case to exclude 
drug testing for elected officials, when that case does not say what he claims. Ironically, the very case he attempts to rely on will be the case used to stroke down the law that he and the Florida legislature did pass. That the Georgia law targeted elected officials did not limit the reason it was struck down. 
Smith’s argument is like taking a case that holds an owner 
of a dog liable for the dog’s bites, and claiming that it would not apply to the owner of a bear for the bear’s bites.
Elected representatives should not be lying to the citizenry 
regarding their actions. And they should not willingly violate the Constitution as clearly interpreted by the court systems. In this case, Smith cannot claim to be unaware of the case in question. He cited it for an inappropriate purpose. It is incon-ceivable that he didn’t know what the case actually held.
We may have grown jaded and expect our politicians to 
lie to us, but that doesn’t make it right. And when the lie is used to justify granting an exemption to themselves, it’s even worse.
When our politicians lie to us, it’s important that some-
body point out the truth, so the voters can decide whether that politician should continue in the position of trust that we have granted them.
Dan Pressnell is a resident of Orlando, Fla.
Mandated drug tests unconstitutional per Supreme Court precedentGuest column
Dan Pressnell
Speaking OuttheAvenue    THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
Odd Future releases new mixtape: 
Tyler the Creator and the rest of his crew released 
“The OF Tape Vol. 2.” Read page 10 for a review.Read “The DJ Diaries,” a local blog project: 
Amanda Mesa interviews DJs as a hobby, but she’s making it a lifestyle. Page 9 has more info on her “Gossip Girl” ways. The Ting Tings released “Sounds from Nowheresville” recently. Check out the details on page 12. 
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
The first single from their 
latest album, “Port of Mor -
row,” may be entitled “Sim-
ple Song,” but the record is far from simple. The Shins proved yet again that caring isn’t creepy and that all music enthusiasts should care enough to listen to their new release.
Available as of March 20, “Port 
of Morrow” was five years in the making since The Shins’ last al-bum, “Wincing the Night Away,” was released in 2007.
The Shins took a turn toward 
the Beach Boys’ surf-pop ways with “Port of Morrow.” 
Oceanic infusions begin with 
their album title, continue with lush, harmonic melodies and elec-trifying guitar riffs, and finally come full-circle with lyrics such as, “And you feel like an ocean/being warmed by the sun.”
For their fourth album, The Shins chose to embark on a dif-ferent route. 
The record was released 
through frontman James Mer -
cer’s new record label, Aural Apothecary.
The highlights of this album, 
like all other albums from The Shins, are the warm lyrics and smooth harmonies that fit togeth-er like pieces of a puzzle. 
The resulting picture is breath-
taking.
“I’m just a simple man/cursed 
with an honest heart,” Mer -
cer sang on the track “Bait and Switch.” 
The sentimental lyrics lend 
themselves fittingly to Mercer’s personal life as he continues to revel in marital bliss since his April 2006 Hawaiian wedding to former journalist Marisa Kula. He and Kula have two children together.
“Port of Morrow” appears as 
a tribute to Kula. From the up-beat, fast-paced tempos found in tracks like “Simple Song” to sweet, romantic songs like “It’s Only Life,” the tracks all seem to have one common theme: satis-faction in Mercer’s domestic life.
Available now on Spotify, 
“Port of Morrow” is likely to achieve a high level of success.
The Shins took to the Saturday 
Night Live stage on March 10 to promote new tracks “Simple Song” and “It’s Only Life.” 
Their surfer vibes float seam-
lessly into the hearts of their fans, and the band also managed a pol-ished sound that even the most experienced “SNL” performers would envy.
It’s undeniable that “Port of 
Morrow” is groundbreaking for The Shins. It is the first album released under Aural Apothecary and their first full album in five years. 
It is the first to reach a deeply 
personal level, and it is their first album to display heavy surfer in-fluences.  
Simply put, “Port of Morrow” is The Shins’ new slang.
Maybe the album is a tribute 
to Mercer’s hometown of Hono-lulu, Hawaii. Maybe it is a tribute to the wedded bliss he found in his 30s. 
Maybe “Port of Morrow” is a 
tribute to the infamous girl with “gold teeth and a curse for this town.” 
With The Shins, at the end of 
the day, it is up for interpretation no matter how direct Mercer’s lyrics may seem.
A little less indie, a little more 
rock. “Port of Morrow” is a ma-ture achievement for this well-established band.
To interpret for yourself, visit 
www.theshins.com/home  and purchase “Port of Morrow” for $10.99.
The Shins bring in good vibes with the ‘Port of Morrow’
Photo courtesy of The Shins
The Shins, comprised of James Mercer, Yuuki Matthews, Jessica Dobson, Joe Plummer and Richard 
Swift released “Port of Morrow” this week.Band recently performed 
on Saturday Night Live
Photo courtesy of The Shins
“Port of Morrow” displays sentimental lyrics mixed in with beachy vibes.“I’m just a simple man 
/ cursed with an honest 
heart.”
James Mercer 
lead singer of The Shins
from the song “Bait and Switch”
DISCOGRAPHY
• Oh, Inverted World 
2001
• Chutes Too Narrow 
2003
• Wincing the Night Away 
2007
• Port of Morrow 
2012DANIELLE MICHELS
Avenue Writer
Energy is high, lights are ﬂ  ashing, the mu-
sic is loud, and the beats are fast. This is just an 
average weeknight for The Girl Downtown, who is making her way behind the turntables at all of Gainesville’s hottest clubs.
When she’s not in class or going to the 
gym, The Girl Downtown, Amanda Mesa, 18, is interviewing and photographing DJs and producers to get their personal stories that she documents on her blog, The DJ Diaries.
“I interviewed 12 DJs in the span of about 
ﬁ  ve days right before Spring Break by just go-ing from club to club to club,” said Mesa, a freshman journalism student at UF. 
“I’d leave my dorm room around 9 p.m. to 
get to the ﬁ  rst one, do my interview, take some pictures, watch them spin and move on to the next one.”
Mesa said she grew up listening to her par-
ents’ musical tastes, which included disco and tech-house, along with artists like Daft Punk and ATB, a German DJ and producer, who gave her a passion for newer beats and musi-cal styles that are easy to dance to.
“I love the idea of people making this mu-
sic electronically , and I’ve always been curious about it,” Mesa said. 
“Being a freshman here, I really missed 
writing. I was editor of my newspaper in high school and didn’t have as much opportunity to write here with all my lecture classes.”
After speaking to several professors and 
advisers on how to become more involved, all of them suggested she start writing and man-aging a blog, Mesa said.
On a bus trip back to her home in Fort Lau-
derdale, Mesa said she watched the documen-tary “Pump Up the V olume: The History of House Music,” and thought about how cool it would be to meet the artists in the documen-tary.
“So few people take the time to document 
the stories of these DJs and the people out there playing the music,” Mesa said. 
“When I ﬁ  rst saw DJs making this music 
from the computer taking bits and pieces of other tracks, mixing them and beat tracking, it was just fascinating to me.”
As she set out to do her ﬁ  rst interviews for 
the blog, Mesa said she went in with a calm at-titude, just seeing who would talk to her. 
“To me, it’s an art form just like 
any other musician, and I really 
want to capture that.”
Amanda Mesa
music blogger
DANA BURKE
Avenue Writer
As the door opens from the cobble-
stone streets in downtown Gainesville, 
a petite woman sweeps the ﬂ  oor as eye-glasses hold back the light brown curls on top of her head.  Little red ﬁ  sh on wire dangle from her earlobes, swinging with each motion of the broom.
Hard-working Nava Ottenberg, 58, 
juggles many hats.  In addition to being the owner of Persona Vintage Clothing & Costumes, located at 201 SE Second Place, she is also a mother of two, world traveler, artist and clothing designer.  
Although Persona is a vintage clothing 
store, Ottenberg blurs the line between old and new with her own fashion line, “Sleepwalk,” which is sewn locally and sold in-store.  
“I started designing it because I was 
looking for a certain type of clothing line that I wanted to carry in the store, and frankly, the only kind of lines I like,” said Ottenberg.
On the left side of the store, a rack full 
of Ottenberg’s designs hang ready for pur-chase, each unlike the other. Dresses from her collection are priced at around $48 and shirts at around $28.The collection was inspired by integrat-
ing fabric used in slips, like lace and silk, with other everyday clothing pieces.
“I’ll see something and see how ugly 
it is and how I can translate it into some-thing beautiful,” said Ottenberg.
“It’s important to create your own 
style,” she said.  “You want to put together different things and in order to do that you have to have the right ingredients.”
One of her goals with her shop, which 
has been open for 32 years, is to teach people to support local vendors. The stock of Persona is comprised of local art-ists’ clothing including her own designs.
Whitney Mutch, 32, 
grew up in Gainesville and has been shop-ping at Persona since the ’90s. She also works with Ottenberg as indiegainesville.com. Together they have worked to stop the city from abolishing all free parking downtown and to help promote all local independent businesses.
“Her business has been successful be-
cause of the passion she has, the drive she has and the care she takes to help custom-ers ﬁ  nd just the right piece for whatever occasion,” Mutch said. THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 9
Dana Burke / Alligator
Nava Ottenberg shows off her vintage designs next to clothing from other local artists. Her 
store, Persona Vintage Clothing & Costumes, has been open for 32 years.
‘DJ Diaries’ blog gives shows life behind local turntables
Fifth Avenue Fashion: Meet ‘Miss Vintage,’ Nava OttenbergSEE DJ, PAGE 10
10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
After sending a few emails and Fa-
cebook messages, Mesa snagged an in-
terview with Adrian Villaverde, who DJs at Forum every Saturday night and opened for Alesso, a globally rec-ognized DJ, in early February.
Since her first interview with Vil-
laverde, Mesa has interviewed DJs that hail from Tallahassee, Orlando, Atlan-ta, Minneapolis and Gainesville. 
She has a variety of experience 
spanning from daytime student to nighttime DJ and producers with re-cord deals.
“Everybody just seemed eager 
about the project and enthusiastic about it, so that’s how I started.”
When it comes to her persona as 
The Girl Downtown, Mesa said she drew her inspiration from “Gossip Girl” and students at NYU.
“Whenever I’ve visited New York, 
I’m always impressed with the stu-dents from NYU because they live this very glamorous lifestyle, always club-hopping, but they were documenting the nightclub owners,” Mesa said.
This girl-on-the-go feel, along with a DIY-style artistry , is why she records interviews and takes pictures and vid-eo with her iPhone, Mesa said.
She also wanted to keep The Girl 
Downtown separate from The DJ Dia-ries. 
She doesn’t want to limit herself to 
just electronic music. 
Gainesville is a huge mecca for rock 
and hip-hop, and she said she wants to be able to branch out in the future.
Although The DJ Diaries is still 
new, Mesa said she has also been ap-
proached by pro-moters and people responsible for put-ting shows together.
“I’d love to docu-
ment their stories as well because they’re as much a part of 
the culture and the scene as the DJs and producers,” Mesa said.
Look out for Mesa’s upcoming fea-
tures on artists such as Figure, Crespo and Lady Cherelle that are soon to be posted on The DJ Diaries.
“To me, it’s an art form just like any 
other musician, and I really want to capture that,” Mesa said.DJ , from page 9‘Gossip Girl’ of music
KENDRICK BROWN
Avenue Writer
It was only a year ago that Tyler the Creator’s 
self-directed video for “Yonkers” spread like 
wildfire on the Internet, and turned him and the members of his crew, Odd Future, into instant fixtures in the blogosphere.
After several solo projects, a Video Music 
Award and collaborations with music’s biggest stars, the group has brought its talents together to release “The OF Tape Vol. 2.”
The beginning of the album, a minute-and-a-
half-long monologue, properly sets the stage for humor and is a necessary disclaimer for the dark imagery in the album’s lyrics. It also says that Odd Future doesn’t take itself too seriously , so the listener probably shouldn’t, either.
With the compilation’s first single, “Rella,” 
Hodgy Beats, Domo Genesis and Tyler, the Cre-ator deliver the same type of twisted comedy that has established them as the shock entertainers of Odd Future, fully equipped with lines about giv-ing your girlfriend STDs and channeling one’s inner Kimbo Slice in a brawl.
The video takes things a step further, featur -
ing scenes of Hodgy donned in a “Halo”-like cos-tume receiving a lap dance while Tyler appears as a cocaine-abusing centaur complaining about the lack of Kanye West music being played.
The most noticeable difference between the 
first and second tapes is the newfound R&B in-fluence prevalent on multiple tracks, without a doubt inspired by singers Frank Ocean and Syd Tha Kyd and their increased relevance in the public eye.
In “White,” Ocean employs the soulful croon-
ing, lush harmonies and vivid imagery that have catapulted him to being the most critically ac-claimed artist in Odd Future. Syd and producer Matt Martians form as “The Internet” to deliver the album’s sole dance track, “Ya Know.” The song’s drum pattern and synthesizers are stylisti-cally reminiscent of 1990s New Jack Swing and serves as the backdrop for a story about a roman-tic encounter sparked at a club.   
Team spirit lies at the center of this album’s ide-
ology and the outro, “Oldie”, is a 10-minute-long posse cut featuring the majority of the members giving their most consistent lyrical performances of the album. With its jazz horn hits and  hip-hop drums, “Oldie” reveals its hidden gem at around the 8-minute mark: Earl Sweatshirt.  Leaving ru-mors about his Samoan-based disappearance in the air, the mystery man delivers a show-stealing verse, summing up the album’s theme and vali-dating Tyler’s final proclamation that, “not only are we talented, we’re rad as f--k.” Odd Future releases latest album
“Not only are we talented, we’re rad 
as f***.”
Tyler the Creator 
music artist music
 THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
RACHEL GODFREY
Avenue Writer
Since 2006, UF’s Shakespeare in the Park 
has been performing the playwright’s produc-
tions outside on the Plaza of the Americas. Ev-ery production is free of charge and open to the public.
This year, the theater group tackled “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” a comedy of in-terlocking plots surrounding the marriage of the Duke of Athens to the Queen of the Ama-zons.
The play premiered last Thursday night 
and ran through Saturday with a matinee per -
formance on Sunday afternoon.
Mischief and treachery ensued this year 
beside the backdrop of a unique premise. Di-rectors Max Wallace and Ashlyn Rothenberg decided on a nautical theme for the perfor -
mance.
“We wanted to do something totally new 
this year,” said Brad Johnson, creative director of the show.
The theme was incorporated largely 
through the set and elaborate costumes. Near -
ly every member of the group serves a dual role as both an actor and a crewmember.
“Everything has been made or put together 
by the people in the organization,” said Shawn Daniels, public relations representative of the group. He also played Bottom. 
Katina Prokos, who played Helena, said 
that none of the performers are theater majors, and they joined the group simply because of their love of Shakespeare. ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’ comedy came to UF in March
� BRIT POP DUO BEGAN U.S. 
TOUR
NATALIA SIEUKARAN
Avenue Writer
British musical pop duo The Ting 
Tings return four years after the re-
lease of their debut album “We Start-ed Nothing” with a self-produced, power-pop sophomore album called “Sounds from Nowheresville,” re-minding us how the group revolu-tionized the way America hears pop music now.
Britain has been influencing mu-
sic as we know it since the days of British invasions, and pop is no doubt included in that. In the ’80s, British acts showed us the wonders and versatility of synthpop, which influenced some of the greatest pop movements, like New Romanti-cism.
Frankly , this British pop invasion 
hasn’t stopped, and it won’t be stop-ping anytime soon. The Ting Tings are here to direct the indie synth sound, an influence sure to be found in pop music years from now.
Their anthems from the iconic 
“We Started Nothing” album show-cased trademark elements of punk-like statements (found in the U.S. sleeper hit “That’s Not My Name”) and chaotic, yet catchy , synth beats we came to love in “Great DJ.” In other words, they made a pretty awesome pop album.
Now, Katie White and Jules De 
Martino return to show us they haven’t become one-hit wonders like many pop artists on the scene, and they have brought along more sounds to play with.
White and De Martino come 
from two vastly different worlds. White was a little girl from a farm in a small town called Lowton, and she went to a school with a strong performing arts program. Her dreams of performing came true when her grandfather won the lot-tery and used a portion of his win-nings to start a music management company . The company signed on White’s punk trio girl group, Tech-nical Knock Out.
De Martino, who was born in 
East London, was already an ac-complished drummer in two bands before White’s father, David White, brought him in to write songs for the girl group. From this, The Ting Tings were born.
The band, which formed by luck, 
has differences from other bands. These differences are apparent in their sound, such as random beats thrown around, one note strummed at a time and White’s sweet voice — chaotic differences that just happen to work.
De Martino told Spin Magazine 
in December that this new album was recorded during an eight-month period in Paris, Berlin and Merci, Spain, but the songs were written in multiple places — on the road dur -
ing tours, the backs of cabs, etc. — hence the name, “Sounds from No-wheresville.”
The first single, “Hang It Up,” 
is a more stripped-down version of their synth-y sound, and it uses more actual instrumentation. The video was released in October and has garnered a million hits on You-Tube so far.The song starts off with White 
strumming guitar riffs that are reminiscent of old-school punk like the Sex Pistols while sassily sing-ing statement-like lyrics such as, “My friends are making me higher and higher. They’re killing me with friendly fire.”
Seeming to have taken advantage 
of their traveling, the second single, “Silence,” sounds like an homage to their artsy beginnings and is remi-niscent of German ’70s experimental rock. Guns shoot in the background, and White drones out somber lyrics in a monotone voice: “Hold, hold your talk now. And let them all lis-ten to your silence.” It’s great.
“Hands” is the song that takes as-
pects of what we love from ’80s pop. Think of the fast, sugary , bubblegum beats we’ve come to love.
During the song, White asks the 
age-old question, “What’s a girl to do with two hands?”
“Hit Me Down Sonny” is largely 
hip-hop with some rock ‘n roll flair, a world Lil Wayne tried to venture into a few years ago. The lyrics are fast, feisty and flirty, with some rum-bling percussion beats.
In the Spin interview, De Martino 
says that record stores are becoming obsolete, so while touring, they lis-tened to music the way a majority of music listeners listen to it now: mp3s. So instead of listening to a re-cord, they would compile playlists, which then led to the idea to create an album that was a playlist.
The Ting Tings do pretty much 
that. They put us on a ride of genres and time periods by putting togeth-er the best aspects of each, all while adding their signature elements to it. The end result is an album that shows us they have the chops and skills to play this little game called pop music, and they play it pretty damn well in just 10 tracks.
“Sounds from Nowheresville” 
is already out, and The Ting Tings started their U.S. tour.12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
Photo courtesy of The Ting Tings
Katie White and Jules De Martino represent Britain’s indie synthpop 
sound.
The Ting Tings show us their “Sounds from Nowheresville”
Photo courtesy of  The Ting Tings
Listen to “Sounds from Nowheresville” to put yourself on the road 
with The Ting Tings.THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
Come Get LUCKY at LEX…….
OPEN HOUSE THIS SAT!!!
12-5pm
Come view All-Inclusive private suites
Free upgrade to a 3/3 !!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
Raffle for a $100 Gift Card!!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
THE POLOS
NOW-ROOMATE MATCHING on 3/3’s
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDEDNO MOVE IN COST.WE DO SEMISTER LEASINGFrances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    9-28-12-85-1
Furn. 1BR/1BA in a 4/4 with 3 other girls.
$350/mo. utilities included, Countryside Condos. avl. Mar 1. Jim -cell 305-664-1680, work 305-852-4044.   3-27-12-10-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED 3BR/BR Apt Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave. Across from Law School
$1650 - Special spring rate. 4BR/2BA
W/D, DW, Cent AC/Heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-30-12-53-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2BR/1BA Sun Key units starting at $550
2BR/1.5BA Sun Harbor units starting at $575
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    3-30-12-52-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $625/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   4-4-12-45-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   3-30-12-44-2
Trend's Student Rentals of the Month!
Biven's North - Huge 3BR Lakefront
The Lofts - 3BR condo on Univ Ave
Near Law School - 3/2 1,907 sf
Text "Trend" to 313131
Trend4Rent.com
4-25-74-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor units $525
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
1bed/1bath units starting at $475
2bed/2bath units starting at $550
Reduced Deposits for Full Time Grads!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720/352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183. 1BR/BA Suite Also Avail $375/mo   3-22-11-26-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 3-26-11-55-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
3 & 4 bedroom upgraded apartments
*$0 to sign $100 gift card/rent credit
Call today spaces going fast!
Thecrossingatsantafe.com 379.9300
4-25-12-43-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099       3-27-12-20-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    3-29-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    3-29-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   3-29-12-20-2
4BR/4BA Beautifully Renovated condo spa-
cious kitchen, living area, and bedrooms par-tially furnished. W/D in unit. Great bus rts ten min to UF & shopping. $325/ room. Must rent all rooms at same time. Call(941)-232-1960    4-13-12-31-2
Cute HOUSES for Aug 1
View at www.10houses.comCent H/A, W/D providedQuiet Areas Bike to UF352-316-0154 nancy@10houses.com   3-22-12-10-2
DUCKPOND DUPLEX $700- big oak tree, 
UF near, busline, carport, immaculate, carpet, 
2br/1ba, WD hookup, CHA, fans, DW, burglar bars, postj@bellsouth.net; 352 284 3873; 352 376 0080. Prefer grads/quiet adults.   4-4-12-19-2
3BR/2BA CHARMING 1950's HOUSE
Walk/bike to UF. Small pet ok. W/D, $1295/mo. Avail August 1st.OPEN HOUSE March 17th, 11:00am - 3:00pm. 352-371-0601   410 NW 26th St.    3-23-12-10-2
Beautiful 2-story house. 2.5 miles from UF. 
5BR/2.5BA 2400sq.ft. on large treed lot. Very quiet neighbrhd. H/W & tile floors, ceil-ing fans, W/D, ref, stove, dishwasher. $1600/mo & security deposit. 727-686-1404    3-27-12-10-2
3 Bed House $795/mo available now &
Aug. Central AC, wooden floors, w/d
hook-ups, and a vintage style walking
distance to campus and downtown.
University Ave & NW 8th st area. By Leo
706 Call now! 352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
3-27-12-10-2
***WALK OR BIKE TO UF ***
3/2 vintage home or 2/2 apt includes parking, 
available August 2012. Call Carolyn 352-538-3556 or email alligatoralley@cox.net4-10-12-20-2
2BR/2.5BA LUXURY CONDO
1/2 mile from campus. On busline. Free in-ternet. W/D, clubhouse. $825/mo. Call 352-332-8841    3-27-12-10-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
               ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100               ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500               ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15003-27-12-10-2
EXCELLENT SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
3BR/2BA & 4BR/3BA. Close to UF.630 NW 34th Terr / 611 NW 36th Terr /3404 NW 7th Pl. Call Mike 352-665-7316 Pets OK.   4-12-12-20-2
TIRED OF COMPLEX LIVING?
Quite, 2BR/2BA, Includes, W/D, HSInternet, 
943SF, MUST SEE. Loc: off SW 34th St, close to shopping, UF, VA, Vet School/ RTS  Bus Rt 36 Stops at complex about every 20 Min. ONLY A FEW LEFT FOR FALL CALL FOR TOUR TODAY (352) 335-5424   3-23-5-2
LOOKING FOR 5/BR/3BA FOR FALL/
GREAT DEAL FOR GROUP LIVING.Located just off SW34th Close to shopping, Shands, VA, Vet School, UF $2500M/JUST$500/Per Bedroom CALL FOR TOUR TODAY (352) 335-5424   3-23-5-2
FOR FALL/3Bd/2Ba house large fenced yard 
(Great for Pets) Located just off SW 34th StClose to shopping, Shands, VA, Vet School, UF $1575/month,CALL FOR TOUR TODAY(352)335-5424   3-23-5-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com   3-30-12-10-2
***5 or 6 BEDROOM HOUSE***
Walk to Class! Pool. 2 Living Rooms.
Lots of Parking. Available June 1st.
Call John @ 561-866-8234 for further info.
3-23-11-4-2
2BR/2BA w Study, Screened porch, end unit 
(Rockwood Villas) $750/m, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus; partially furnished, W/D, 904.874.5774    5-24-12-30-2
2bd/1.5 Apt sublet May 1. No move in $. 
pool,gym,laundry,quiet. 512-517-5457   3-23-12-3-2
********AVAILABLE NOW ********
1 BR Apartment close to UF. 116 NW 7th Ter. $495/mth. Also Downtown Studio Apt. 216 SW 3rd Ave. $325/mth. Call 870-2760.    4-3-12-10-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INCL.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x 10www.merrillmanagement.com
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF,
Carpet, Central H & Air, CarpetLaundry., Inclds Wtr and Swg. $800/MoCan reserve for Summer or Fall now.Grad II 1236 SW 4th Avenue
2BR 1BA Apt Robert Obrien Apts
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat Gas HtNear Sams Club/Walmart  $500/Mo2901 NW 14th Street
2BR 1BA House in Oaks of Kanapaha
4845 SW 57th Drive $725/MoCarpet, Central H & Air, Laundry hkupsOff Archer Rd.       3-22-12-1-2
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
Charming 3BR/2BA home. CLOSE TO UF 
& SHANDS. Fenced in backyard. W/D, D/W, Garage, Wood flooring. Pets allowed. Move in Aug 1. $1,600/mo. Call 813-767-6629.    4-4-12-10-2
7 blks to UF, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters,
POOL, HOT TUB,
2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park,
responsible students or professionals only.
  $2375/mo Aug, yr. lease. 352-222-0211
3-28-12-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
DON’T WAIT
TO PLACE 
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 25th.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT 
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Two bedroom two bath apartment available 
for sublease available on April 1 2012 at Stoneridge Apartments For information call Carlos 954-732-3962 or Jorge 954-594-9878    3-23-12-5-3
$399 Furnished Sublease: May 2012/
July 2012 (The Landings) (Electric/Water Included; 1bed/1 bath in a 3 bed/3 bath)Contact Corey at corey118@gmail.com or at (347) 756-9688    3-23-12-5-3
DOWNTOWN LIVING AT IT'S BEST!! WALK 
TO HIPP, RESTURANTS, NIGHTLIFE. 3/3 WASHER,DRYER,CABLE,INTERNET, PARKING INCLUDED. PETS OK. $1544Xreally@mindspring.com    3-28-11-7-3
1 BR in 3/2 unit at Royal Village. may-jul 
2012. 2 pools, gym, bbq, printing center. fully furnished, utilities included for $539 (negotia-ble). 4 blocks from UF. Call 352-575-7598 or visit office on 710 SW Depot Ave    3-23-3-3
1 Bedroom/Bath for Sublease in 2 Bdr 2.5 
Bth for SUMMER C*$600/mth ($100 utilities included)*Fully Furnished!*Walking distance to UF Campus*Located by Sorority Row*Email: ahester1008@gmail.com for more details/tour3-26-3-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDEDNO MOVE IN COST.WE DO SEMISTER LEASINGFrances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    9-28-12-85-4Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 6/1/12    4-11-12-20-4
Looking for female roommate for
Summer (May - Aug / 2012) at Cazabella
2 bdrm / 1 bath Apt Renting a furnished
Master bdrm - $415 / month + elect +
Wi-Fi. Ashley: 954-554-5133
anaguirre@comcast.net
    3-23-11-3-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
WALK/BIKE TO UF! 4BED/2BATH
FURNISHED, REMODELED HOME FOR RENT, TILE, STAINLESS APPLIANCES,HARD WOOD FLOORS, FIREPLACE +BONUS ROOM. $1750/mo  PH 352-317-6530   4-4-12-10-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
 THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   8-15-58-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
95 F350 $999
97 FORD EXPLORER $170098 GRAND AM $199998 CHEVY VENTURE $2999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
98 CADILLAC CATERA $3999
00 BUICK CENTURY $390098 CHRYSLER SBRING $390001 MITS MIRAGE $3900352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
02 SATURN $3900
98 TOYOTA COROLLA $390098 TOYOTA 4RUNNER $490002 TOYOTA COROLLA $5900352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250098 HONDA ACCORD $390098 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
02 CHEVY CAMERO $6999
04 CHEVY ASTRO $699905 CHEVY IMPALA $799907 CHEVY COBALT $8999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
06 PT CRUISER $7999
02 DODGE RAM $899905 DODGE DURANGO $999904 KIA SORENTO $9999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
06 SATURN ION $7999
03 HONDA CRV $899905 GMC SIERRA $999905 FORD F150 $10,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  3-23-12-74-13
$100.00 REWARD.
mcgurn.com/wantedHELP USIDENTIFY THIS PERSON/STUDENT    3-26-3-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising 
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator 
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be available to work Summer C.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are wel-
come to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
!!ATTN SMOKERS!! You're needed to par-
ticipate in a study conducted by the UF Smoking Lab assessing effects of exercise on cravings, withdrawal, and/or smoking. Compensation provided!! Call 336-406-3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    3-23-19-14
ATTORNEY WITH MINIMUM TWO YEARS 
EXPERIENCE IN ESTATE PLANNING & BUSINESS LAW wanted for prestigious Sarasota law firm. Please send resume to sarasotalaw@yahoo.com    4-11-12-30-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and 
Reliable 371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G    3-30-17-14
Seeking a personal assistant.i.e., miscella-
neous errands, phone calls, resolving minor issues, mailings, bill payment and general organizing.You will be paid $550/week send your resume to :lin.da2@aol.com 786-519-3572    3-27-12-10-14
Andrea is leaving to get married. Busy 
law firm seeks F/T admin/legal assistant. Dependable w/great typing and proofreading skills. Exp. w/ Word & Excel. Spanish speak-ing a plus! Pay DOE. Send resume tocarrillolawoffice@gmail.com     3-27-10-14
Sedentary adults needed to participate 
in a study conducted by the UF Get Up and Go Initiative assessing the accuracy & ease of use of an advanced pedometer. COMPENSATION provided! Call 336-406-3706 or email fitbit10000@gmail.com   3-23-8-14
FISH LOVERS WANTED! Excellent sales 
opportunity for someone who loves tropical fish and likes to work with people. Training program, advancement possibilities, flex-ible hours. Work in a clean modern store with great people. Bring resume with ref-erences to Aquatropics, 2100 SW34th Street,Gainesville.   3-22-12-7-14
Students needed for part-time sales, $10-
$12/hr., no experience required, flexible schedules, must have good communication skills, located in Creekside Mall, call Mike 352-533-2201   3-27-10-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   3-27-10-14
Volunteer for Money
Participants needed for one-hour focus group. Must be 18 years or older and attend UF.  We want your perspective on mental health. Completely CONFIDENTIAL. Will receive $20 UF Bookstore gift card and free pizza. Email GatorWellProjects@mail.ufl.edu with subject line Focus Group Volunteer.   3-30-12-14
Programmer Needed
Dilinky, Inc. is looking for an individual to 
create and program a website. Contact Us 
at Help@Dilinky.com.
3-23-5-14
Marketing Project Manager wanted for 
Gainesville web design company. Web de-sign/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    3-23-12-7-14
One serious hardworking and trustworthy UF 
student. Gen or const help, exp w/electrical & plumbing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy lifting. Familiar w/ Sketchup or AutoCAD. PT flex hrs. $7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183     3-23-11-7-14
LPN (FT) needed for FP Clinic on eastside 
of Gainesville. Great Pay! Fax Resume 352 371 3320 or send to ocolasante@yahoo.com   3-23-12-5-14MD/DO (FT or PT) needed for FP CL on 
eastside of Gainesville. Office Svcs only. Need FL Lic and Dea#. Exc Salary. CV to ocolasante@yahoo.com/fax 352 371 3320   3-23-12-5-14
352 Media Group is seeking a part-time 
Network Support Technician. Experience w/programming & web technologies is pre-ferred. Email resume to hr@352media.com   3-27-12-7-14
New Scooters 4 Less is looking for a kind 
and polite PT or FT secretary. Must be avail. to work over summer and fall.  Email Collin@NS4L.com for details.   4-2-10-14
New Scooters 4 Less is hiring PT and FT 
scooter technicians.  Must be avail for sum-mer and fall semesters.  Must have experi-ence with 2T & 4T motors.  Email Collin@NS4L.com.    4-2-10-14
Looking for business partners. Are you tired 
of doing what you are doing & getting what you are getting? Need a "B" plan? If you an-swered yes then let me teach you to invest in yourself. GillisExpress2012@gmail.com    3-26-12-4-14
Re-Tech Smartphone Centers is now hir-
ing in Gainesville. Must have open avail-abilty and a passion for electronic devices. IT background and a technical aptitude re-quired. Send resume to hr@re-tech.com   3-28-12-5-14
Female Tutor/Driver/Sitter, Apr 25-Jun 6: 
3:15p-7:00p MTWRF. Jun 7-Aug 17: occa-sional. Aug 20-Dec 19: 2:45p-6:00p. Some nite & wkends. Strong math skills. Call 332-6465.    3-27-12-4-14
Looking For a Job?
JobTricks.org
3-30-7-14
FARAH'S ON THE AVENUE
is now hiring for the summer semester. Come fill out an application between 2 & 5pm at 1120 W. University Ave. No phone calls, please.    4-4-10-14
RTNCF needs students for summer
camp counselors. Overnight camp,July in Alachua. Need AmeriCorpsMembers for August (352)692-4973http://rebuildingtogetherncf.org   4-11-12-15-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    3-23-12-20-15
ANXIOUS, STRESSED, DEPRESSED, 
RELATIONSHIP CONCERNS? Don't hesis-tate in getting help another day. Make an ap-pointment with Theresa Rodriguez, licensed psychotherapist. Visit her website and make an appt online or call her at (352) 359-0264. Theresa.Rodriguez.com    4-9-14-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Need place to house 2 year old crate trained 
pitbull. Moved and can't have dog at current place. I will feed, walk, etc. but need place to house him.Can pay small fee. Call 281-4240 or vanvliet@ufl.edu This is NOT an adoption.    3-27-12-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Best religion? No religion!
Superb Bible instructions:versebyverseministry.orgJust click and listen.     3-30-10-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GUNSHOW - MARCH 24 & 25
Alachua County Fair Grounds2900 NE 39th Ave. (near the airport)Sat 9 - 4 & Sun 9 - 3. Admission $7Info: Cliffhangers 386-375-6114    3-23-12-5-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  M-R, March 26 – 29  from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions on M & W, Math on T & R.  Go to teachingcenter.ufl.edu to register and learn the room location.3-26-4-20
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a pulic meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: April 2, 2012 at 3:00 pmPLACE;  Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE;  Regular Business Meeting of 
the MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling 352-955-2200, visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Persons who require special accommoda-tions under the Americans With Disabilites Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352-955-2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     3-22-1-20
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Live Tweets from the NCAA Tournament
Beat writer John Boothe (@JJBoothe) and sports editor Matt 
Watts (@WattMatts) will be in Phoenix tonight bringing you live tweets from UF’s Sweet 16 showdown with Marquette. Tebow on the move
The Denver Broncos traded Tim Tebow to the New York Jets on Wednesday night, ending a two-day saga in which the polarizing former Gator was the focal point of a national media spotlight.AP Photo
Florida center Patric Young towels off during a practice last week in Omaha, Neb. Young and Marquette forward Jae Crowder have gone back and forth in the media this week ahead of their Sweet 16 meeting tonight in Phoenix.  
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Two days before they were due to share 
the same court, Florida’s players were already 
feeling the extra dose of physicality Marquette usually has in store for its opponents.
While the No. 3 seed Golden Eagles have 
built a reputation this season for being a tough, physical team that claws for rebounds and thrives off forcing turnovers, the seventh-seeded Gators adjusted their practices accord-ingly this week in Phoenix to simulate Mar -
quette’s defensive maelstrom.
“These last two practices we’ve had have 
probably been our most physical practices we’ve had,” freshman Brad Beal said. “We’ve been fouling each other and slapping at the ball. We’re prepared for them. We know they’re going to try to slap at us when we get a rebound.”
Heading into Florida’s Sweet 16 matchup 
with Marquette tonight at 10:17 in U.S. Air -
ways Center, the Gators are expecting to be challenged on a plane akin to “psychological warfare,” according to center Patric Young.
The 6-foot-9 Young will be matching up 
at times with 6-foot-6 Marquette forward Jae Crowder, who averages 17.6 points in 33 min-utes per game and is a part of a Golden Eagles’ starting frontcourt that sees little time on the bench. 
After suffering a season-ending ACL injury 
to center Chris Otule and with forward Da-vante Gardner still working his way back into Marquette’s lineup from a Jan. 28 knee sprain, the Golden Eagles have relied primarily on a seven-man rotation.
“They’re trying to break our will,” Young said. “They’re trying to catch us in a moment of weakness but we have to fight through ad-versity and we can’t show any weakness, even if we get hit and fouls aren’t called. If you get hurt, you have to act like you aren’t and fight through it.”
Though Young predicts pushing through 
no-call fouls by Marquette and moving on from frustrating plays will be key in Florida not getting rattled by the Golden Eagles, he said he hasn’t taken any special measures to prepare for the game.
“It’s just how I play anyways,” he said.Crowder spoke confidently to reporters 
Tuesday on Marquette’s offense’s chances of scoring against Florida’s defense, which al-lowed each of its last five opponents heading into the NCAA Tournament to shoot 45 per -
cent or better.
However, since the tournament has started, 
the Gators have appeared to be a different team.
“We held teams at less than 50 points the 
first two games, so I don’t know where the credibility behind that comment comes from,” Young said.
After beating 10th-seeded Virginia 71-45 
in the second round and No. 15 seed Norfolk State 84-50 on Sunday, Florida became the only Sweet 16 team to limit both of its oppo-nents to fewer than 50 points.
“We’re just a real humble team,” Young 
said. 
“People tend to put us under the radar but 
that doesn’t matter. The only thing that mat-ters is when it’s time to set up on the court. We just have to go play basketball.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org.Florida braces for physical game
bAsebAll
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Florida’s trip last year to Omaha, Neb., for the College 
World Series continues to weigh on Preston Tucker’s mind for 
all the wrong reasons. 
For the senior right fielder, it’s tough to think about the 
three games the Gators won at TD Ameritrade Park or the championship-caliber season that preceded their trip to college baseball’s biggest stage. 
There’s one bitter memory that stands out. “It obviously left a sour taste in our mouth,” Tucker said. “A 
lot of the guys still remember the game like it was yesterday. I know I do.”
At the hands of Southeastern Conference rival South Caro-
lina, Florida watched a 53-17 season dissipate into disappoint-ment. Two victories away from claiming UF’s first baseball national championship, the Gators were stonewalled by self-inflicted errors and the Gamecocks’ pitching. 
Most notably , Florida lost the first of a three-game set in 11 
innings after failing to push a run across during a bases-loaded, 
no-outs situation in the bottom of the ninth. 
Beginning tonight at 7:30, the No. 1 
Gators (20-1, 3-0 SEC) will get their first look at the No. 8 Gamecocks (16-5, 0-3 SEC) since the College World Series finals. The trip is a quick turnaround for Florida, as the team was on the bus to Columbia, S.C., a little more than 12 hours after defeating Samford 
5-3 on Tuesday night in Gainesville. 
“We have no choice (but to be pre-
pared),” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said after the game. “They’re young. They’ll get some rest [Tuesday] and jump on the bus [Wednesday] and practice [Wednesday] night and see what happens this weekend.”
The Gators’ road trip brings a number of factors into play . 
Not only is it a rematch against a team that took four of five from Florida last year, it is the first SEC road trip for a lineup that now features four freshman starters after losing senior cen-ter fielder Tyler Thompson to a torn ACL. 
But youth is something familiar for South Carolina as well. 
Five freshman have charted at least 10 starts for the Gamecocks this season, and South Carolina is in the bottom half of the SEC in nearly every offensive category , including last in runs scored (93). 
“Whether we’re at home or away , we’ve still got to play 
good,” O’Sullivan said. “I know they’re freshmen, but they came here to play and we’re going to throw them right back out there.”
Loss to eventual champs South Carolina still fresh ahead of rematch
see bAsebAll, PA ge 18Tucker
“We held teams at less than 50 
points the first two games, so I don’t 
know where the credibility behind that 
comment comes from.”
Patric Young
UF sophomore centerYoung, Crowder 
exchange barbs
More content available online
To read stories on the Gators’ 
softball and gymnastics teams, please visit alligatorSports.org.The Gamecocks offer a blue-
print of how not to handle an 
SEC road trip with a young lineup. Last weekend, South Carolina opened SEC play at Kentucky and was promptly swept by the currently unde-feated Wildcats after putting up just three runs in each of the three games. 
That was also South Caro-
lina’s first big road trip of the season. Florida conditioned it-self on the road earlier this sea-son with a three-game series at No. 12 Miami. 
But Columbia, where 9,000 
fans will pack Carolina Stadium all three days, is an entirely dif-ferent monster. Junior catcher Mike Zunino last played there when he was a freshman.
“It’s loud, so we just have 
to be able to communicate and grind out every at-bat,” he said. “If our [bullpen] keeps throw-ing strikes and doing their job, all we have to do is keep com-peting.”
Etc.: Sophomore right-hand-
er Jonathon Crawford will once again get the third weekend start for Florida against South Carolina. O’Sullivan expects sophomore Karsten Whitson to be back soon. 
“We’re looking at either 
maybe getting a start against Florida State on Tuesday for a couple innings or starting him against Ole Miss,” he said. “Obviously , he’ll be on a pitch count, but he’s ready.”UF’s Whitson out 
again this weekend18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
BaseBaLL ,        
from page 17FootBaLL
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
To say 2011 was a disappoint-
ment for Quinton Dunbar would be 
an understatement.
After appearing in just two 
games as a true freshman in 2010, the 6-foot-1, 183-pound receiver drew praise from coaches and team-mates alike last spring and into fall camp. It seemed he was poised for a breakout year — one the Gators needed from a receiver.
However, all that buildup never 
translated to games, as Dunbar caught just 14 passes for 216 yards and a pair of scores in 12 games. His first touchdown didn’t come until the second-to-last game of the sea-son against Furman on Nov. 19.
“I mean, I can’t even answer 
that,” Dunbar said last week when asked why the preseason hype didn’t amount to on-field production. “I don’t know what happened.”
But with one week of spring 
practice done, new offensive coordi-nator Brent Pease said he has been particularly impressed with Dunbar, more so than any other receiver.
While Andre Debose led the 
team last season in receiving touch-downs (four), receiving yards (432) and yards per catch (27), Pease said he hasn’t seen the redshirt junior emerge just yet as the playmaker Florida’s offense needs. 
Instead, Pease praised Dunbar’s 
play early this spring.
“ Q u i n t o n ’ s 
really done it well in four days — really done well,” Pease said Wednesday . “(He has made) drastic improvements every day.”
Most notably , 
Pease complimented improvements in Dunbar’s catching ability — high praise considering Pease said the receiving corps as a whole needs more work on fundamentals such as stance, catching, blocking and releasing on routes. Dunbar said he is focusing on all of those things this offseason in order to try to take his game to the next level.
So far, it seems to be paying off, 
as Pease has seen Dunbar make sev-eral big plays early in practice and flash the potential to be a downfield threat come fall.
“Practice is built to go fast and 
be challenging so that games are easier,” Pease said. “He’s starting to play the game faster. He’s not think-ing so much. When kids are think-ing, they play slow, because they don’t know everything, they don’t trust and they have no confidence.
“Obviously we’re working 
through that, but I’ve seen the pace of how he plays the game every day get faster and faster and faster.”
Pease working more with receiv-
ers: Given his recent background as 
a wide receivers coach, Pease said he tends to be pickier when it comes to coaching receivers, and has been hands on with the Gators’ group of pass-catchers this spring. 
To continue reading this story, fea-
turing more about Pease and the re-ceivers and UF employing the Wildcat, please visit alligatorSports.org/football.
Notebook: Pease says Dunbar improving
Dunbar
 THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 19
Countless hours of statistical analysis provide a realistic 
account of Florida’s defensive performance this season with and without its best defender, Will Yeguete. Despite losing the lockdown forward, the Gators are playing their best defense of the year in the NCAA Tournament.
GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida’s defense has been a roller coaster this season, all be-
cause of an injury to the team’s sixth man.
When the Gators lost Will Yeguete to a broken foot on Feb. 
21, they lost without question their best defensive player.
The horrendous ﬁ  ve-game stretch that followed was far and 
away the worst Florida has played this season. But, when the 
NCAA Tournament started, everything changed.
UF got back on track, shutting down Virginia and Norfolk 
State to earn a date with Marquette tonight in the Sweet 16.
Through more than 60 hours of ﬁ  lm study and number 
crunching, I have been able to quantify the value of Yeguete’s 21.9 minutes per game, pinpoint how far Florida slipped when he was injured, and identify what the Gators have done to round into top form at the perfect time.
But ﬁ  rst, a look at the system.When it comes to measuring an individual player’s defen-
sive performance, traditional boxscore data is wholly inad-equate. Scorekeepers chart only blocks, steals and defensive rebounds for each player. 
Enter Project Defensive Scoresheet, proposed by Dean Oli-
ver in his 2003 book Basketball on Paper.
Instead of noting only steals and blocks, this scoring sys-
tem requires that credit be issued for every forced miss, forced turnover or defensive rebound. It also assigns blame for every allowed basket or free throw, providing a complete picture of a player’s defensive contribution.
Credit for wide-open misses and unforced turnovers is 
spread across the entire team, as is blame for transition baskets, late-game intentional fouls and broken plays.
If a certain defender is clearly responsible for missing a rota-
tion that results in a wide-open shot, he gets the blame for the make. But, more often than not, I assign open shots to “Team” and let Billy Donovan decide who is at fault.
Formulas in Oliver’s book boil those totals down into stops 
and scoring possessions. Those numbers are then used to ﬁ  nd each player’s stop percentage, defensive engagement percent-age and overall defensive rating, which is the measure of how many points a player’s team is expected to give up with that player on the court for 100 possessions.
The result is a chart like the one shown below, from Florida’s 
84-50 win over Norfolk State. 
After going through that process for each of UF’s Southeast-
ern Conference games plus signiﬁ  cant non-conference tilts — those against Ohio State, Syracuse, Arizona, Texas A&M, Flori-da State and Rutgers — the data was sorted into three subsets.
The ﬁ  rst 19 games of the study encompass everything that 
happened before Yeguete was lost for the season, including the Feb. 21 game against Auburn when he broke his foot.
Yeguete was Florida’s best defender, leading the team with 
a 98.2 defensive rating despite boasting the highest defensive engagement percentage (29.3). 
Because defensive ratings are calculated in relation to the 
team’s total — in this case 102.7 — ﬂ  uctuations of just a few points are very signiﬁ  cant. Yeguete displayed quick hands, a willingness to take charges and excellent rebounding ability , leading the team with 6.5 defensive rebounds per 40 minutes and a turnover forced on 6.8 percent of his  possessions.
Brad Beal checked in right behind him with a 98.3 rating 
thanks to strong rebounding and a team-best 30.1 opponent ﬁ  eld goal percentage. Mike Rosario and Casey Prather were quietly efﬁ  cient, mostly staying out of the way but occasionally forcing a turnover.
Young and Murphy were heavily involved inside and held 
their own, but didn’t force enough turnovers or grab enough defensive rebounds to ﬁ  nish above the middle of the pack. 
Walker forced turnovers with his quickness, often jumping 
in to intercept passes as teams tried to break the press. But, at 5-foot-8, opponents had an easy time hitting 46.3 percent of their shots right over him.
Boynton and Scottie Wilbekin, considered the team’s pre-
mier perimeter defenders, did poorly in the study because of how often they got caught up in screening action and yielded open jumpers. Although they were rarely beaten off the dribble, the single shortcoming was enough to doom their defensive ratings because each sported such a low engagement rate.
Cody Larson struggled in limited playing time.The defensive numbers were average, which was good 
enough given Florida’s offense. But, once Yeguete left the line-up, the defense took a major slide. UF’s defensive rating in the next ﬁ  ve games was 124.2, up 21.5 points from the ﬁ  rst 19 con-tests. The individual ratings naturally followed suit.Murphy and Prather struggled moving into new roles, and 
UF’s press became mostly ineffective. Field goal percentages rose and turnover percentages fell almost across the board.
New rotations meant breakdowns in both transition and 
half-court defense, leading to a number of open, unblameable shots that crushed Florida’s overall rating.
One explanation is the obvious jump in competition, as UF 
played Kentucky (twice) and Vanderbilt during the ﬁ  ve-game rough patch. Still, Florida’s defensive efforts in that span were among the worst any team had played against those oppo-nents, according to KenPom.com. UF’s performances against Vanderbilt and Georgia were the third-worst any unit has played against those teams this season.
The competition weakened in the tournament’s opening 
weekend, but that alone doesn’t account for UF’s revival.
Florida’s defensive rating of 124.2 from the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve games 
after Yeguete broke his foot fell to 75.6. UF played the best de-fensive game any team has played against Virginia this year, and followed that with the third-best defensive game any team has played against Norfolk State.
Wilbekin, in particular, raised his play, allowing opponents 
to shoot just 7.7 percent while forcing turnovers on 41.7 percent of the possessions he was involved in.
Opponent ﬁ  eld-goal percentages were down all around, 
and defensive rebounding numbers skyrocketed.
Florida’s press was back near its normal form, sparking 
major runs as UF notched decisive wins in each game. The pressure did not actively force turnovers as much as it made Virginia and Norfolk State uncomfortable. The teams played at UF’s tempo and occasionally took poor shots while combining to commit an unforced turnover on 7.2 percent of possessions.
Murphy and Young held their own in difﬁ  cult matchups 
against Virginia’s Mike Scott and Norfolk’s Kyle O’Quinn, usu-ally forcing contested jump shots.
The Gators often doubled both Scott and O’Quinn. UF also 
frequently doubled the ball on pick-and-pop action, unafraid to leave inconsistent shooters open for long jump shots.
Florida played with a newfound focus, intensity and com-
mitment to the gameplan, even without its best defender. 
Reading too much into a two-game sample can be danger-
ous, but the results at least give the Gators hope that the de-fense will be able to bring them through another weekend and into the Final Four. 
Visit alligatorSports.org for more details on the scoring system 
and for the key for the graphics below. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org. 
Project Defensive Scoresheet: UF rounding into form at right time
DFGA /NCAA Tournament Totals
Player
Scottie Wilbekin
Brad BealErving Walker“TEAM”Mike RosarioErik MurphyPatric YoungKenny BoyntonCasey PratherCody LarsonMin/G
20
31.5
30
40
15.5
26
24
29
15.5
6Dposs%
11.5
15.4
8.8
28.5
9.2
22
11.4
15.9
20.3
37.2Stop%
93.1
78.3
77.1
69.355.6
61.7
57
59.3
44.9
57.1OppFg%
7.7
29.422.232.433.326.3
27.8
41.7
54.546.2OppTO%
41.7
19.7
30.125.1
0
2.85.83.4
19.6
14.3DFTA/
0
58.8
44.4
N/A
0
42.1
77.8
16.7
00DReb/
3
10.2
4.74.5
1.3
5.44.2
9
2.63.340FTO%
4.8
3
2.7
7.2
0
0.60.70.5
2.1
5.3DRating
68.7
71.6
73.6
74
78
78.278.278.4
81.8
83.9
Team  75.6Norfolk State Totals
# Player
5 Scottie Wilbekin
11 Erving Walker23 Brad Beal24 Casey Prather“TEAM”35 Walter Pitchford1 Kenny Boynton3 Mike Rosario4 Patric Young33Erik Murphy34 Cody LarsonTOTALMin
18
29
31
9
-
3
31
19
2628
6
-
FMwt = 0.484     DPtsPerScPoss = 2.315Dreb
238
-
618
-
151
-FM
52
2.52.5
14
152
4.58.5
1
48FTO
1
1.5
1
-
4
---
0.5
--
8FFTA
--
2
------
1
-
3DFGM
0.5
-
0.5
-
5
0.5
31
2.5
32
18Stops
3.83.76.20.9
11.9
0.95.90.72.65.60.9
43.1ScPos
0.5
0
1.3
05
0.53.9
1
2.54.9
2
21.6Dposs
4.33.7
7.5
0.9
16.9
1.4
9.8
1.7
5.1
10.5
2.9
64.7Florida 84 Norfolk 50
Individual Defensive StatsDFG% 27.3%
DOR% 28.6%
Stop%
88.4
100
82.7
100
70.4
64.3
60.2
41.2
51
53.3
31
66.6%Dposs
14.8
7.9
15
6.2
26.1
28.9
19.5
5.5
12.1
23.229.9
20DRtg
69.8
71.271.7
72.5
75
78.880.280.5
81.7
84.4
102
77.3DFTM
--
3
---
2
--
5
-
10DFGA /Pre-Injury Totals
Player
Will Yeguete
Brad BealCasey PratherMike RosarioPatric YoungErik MurphyErving WalkerKenny BoyntonScottie WilbekinCody LarsonMin/G
22.8
35.1
6.1
13.1
26.4
26
32.3
33
13
4.7
19 games, including AuburnDposs%
29.3
14.3
19.1
10.3
19.6
22.5
10.7
9
13.1
16.8Stop%
64.7
69.3
61
65.1
59.1
57.7
56.950.652.5
37.5OppFg%
40.5
30.136.134.1
34.935.446.346.953.9
75OppTO%
28.4
17.3
30.934.6
15.9
16.4
23.3
14.1
21.6
14.7DFTA/
32.626.3
105.6
43.9
38
36.6
24.4
16.9
60.5
187.5DReb/
6.5
6.1
3.32.65.44.92.7
1.9
3.2
3.140FTO%
6.82.55.93.6
3.1
3.72.5
1.3
2.82.5DRating
98.298.3
100.9100.9
101.3101.8
102.5103.8103.8106.9
Team  102.7
DFGA /Bad Stretch Totals
Player
Brad Beal
Scottie WilbekinPatric YoungKenny BoyntonErving WalkerMike RosarioCasey PratherErik Murphy“TEAM”Cody LarsonMin/G
36.6
20.428.830.233.8
11.8
6.5
29.2
40
5
Five games after AuburnDposs%
12.7
14
15.2
11.2
10.410.9
20.3
27.4
23
24.3Stop%
72.458.455.6
56
52.3
47.9
44.9
38.1
31.9
22.5OppFg%
38.1
50
46.2
40
51.2
50
43.846.865.6
75OppTO%
25
28.7
14.1
18.1
23.3
21.3
6.4
5.1
14.8
0DFTA/
47.6
50
49.2
8
34.1
42.962.5
37.1
N/A
66.7DReb/
6.32.44.7
2.12.1
1.41.5
3.3
1.4
640FTO%
3.2
4
2.1
2
2.42.3
1.31.4
3.4
0DRating
116.7
120.5
121.2121.9
123
124.1
127.9
130.1
132.5138.9
Team  124.220, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
