VOLUME 106 ISSUE 97 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF drops in Princeton Review’s ‘best value’ ranking
This year it was ranked seventh, last year it was third, pg 3.  
GMAT to add new section in June
A new integrated reasoning section will be added, pg 4. Want to make it into Sundance, too?
Gator grads do big things. “New Low” made it into the 
Sundance Film Festival. Story on pg 12.
71/46
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15
SPORTS 17� THE BILL WILL BE 
DEBATED TODAY IN THE HOUSE.
 ERIN JESTER
Alligator Staff Writer
A bill that would give the 
governor power to appoint a 
student representative to the Board of Governors will be debated today in the Florida House of Representatives. 
HJR931 would nullify the 
current system of appointment, in which the president of the Florida Student Association serves as the student member of the Board. The bill was ap-proved Tuesday by the House Education Committee.
FSA chairman Mike Long 
said he is wholeheartedly against the bill because it takes 
power away from students.
However, UF Student Body 
President Anthony Reynolds 
said giving the power of ap-pointment to the governor is a fairer practice.
Florida colleges and uni-
versities pay FSA membership fees with students’ activity and service fees, Reynolds said. A recent amendment eliminated schools’ requirement to pay dues to be considered for the Board of Governors seat. 
Now that not all colleges 
have to pay the fee, there may be animosity among schools that pay the dues and schools that don’t, he said.
The result of this could play 
out when it comes time to elect the president of FSA, who would get the Board of Gover -
nors seat.
Giving the power to the 
governor could erase the entire issue, Reynolds said.
“We should be lobbying at 
the state capitol, not lobbying each other.”House to 
talk seat for students on state board
JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha Fra-
ternity has been temporarily suspended in 
the wake of recent hazing allegations.
According to an email sent by the Office 
of Sorority & Fraternity Affairs to UF’s Greek community Tuesday night, the fraternity has been placed on interim suspension pending the outcome of a formal hearing.
University Police are investigating allega-
tions that were reported to authorities Sat-urday.
“There are allegations of serious physical 
hazing and visible injuries,” said UF spokes-woman Janine Sikes.Sources with knowledge of the situation 
told the Alligator the hazing may have in-
cluded the beating of poten-
tial initiates.
UF officials believe the 
hazing occurred in recent weeks, and there was no hospitalization as a result from injuries.
Associate Vice President 
for Student Affairs Dave Kratzer said Wednesday 
that a specific instance of hazing occurring off-campus was reported.
“If someone’s guilty of this, it’s a crime,” 
he said.
On Sunday, Alpha Phi Alpha received a cease-and-desist order from its district direc-tor instructing the fraternity to immediately stop all chapter activities until further no-tice.
In the message, District Director for the 
Southern Region John Ellis Jr. instructed  UF chapter members to return the chapter seal, chapter checkbook and and any other Alpha items to their chapter advisor.
Ellis also told members not to contact 
anyone seeking membership
William Douglass Lyle, executive director 
of the national organization, said in a state-ment Wednesday that Alpha Phi Alpha plans to cooperate with the police investigation.
“If any member of Alpha Phi Alpha is 
found to engage in conduct inconsistent with our mission, that member will be dealt with firmly,” he said.UF fraternity suspended following hazing allegationsCLARE LENNON
Alligator Staff Writer
Authorities arrested a suspect in a snatch-
and-run robbery that took place on campus 
near Rawlings Hall Wednesday night.
Police said the suspect was caught south of 
the Phelps Lab on Museum Road by UPD and an Alachua County Sheriff’s Office K-9 unit.
The 17-year-old suspect was charged with 
robbery by sudden snatching and resisting ar -
rest with violence, said UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Barber.
The suspect was arrested on suspicion of 
grabbing the keychain wallet of a UF senior who was near the intersection of Newell Drive and Inner Road with her boyfriend.
After the victim called 911, UPD created a 
perimeter around campus and was joined by Alachua County units. An officer spotted the suspect near the Astronomy Teaching Obser -
vatory and ran after him. The suspect struggled against officers who were trying to arrest him, Barber said.
The robbery occurred at 9:19 p.m., Barber 
said. He said there was no indication that the suspect had a weapon.
UF sent out an emergency alert by email 
and text message at about 9:55 p.m. warning students of the incident. A follow-up message was sent when the suspect was caught at about 10:20 p.m.
Campus was not closed at any time, Barber 
said. 
“This was a very quick series of events that 
fortunately resulted in the arrest of the sus -
pect,” he said.On-campus robbery suspect arrested
see Hazing, page 5Brett Le Blanc / alligator s taff
Police arrested a suspect in a snatch-and-run robbery on campus Wednesday night.
Kentucky used 
a strong transition 
game led by fresh-
man Michael Kidd-
Gilchrist to defeat 
Florida on Tuesday. 
See story, page 17.
sikes
Alpha Phi Alpha is being investigatedcampus crimeNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 97 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tom Green, Phil Kegler, Greg Luca,   
  Corey McCall, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Calli Breil, Chloe Finch, 
  Karly Kehres, Sarah Kinonen, 
  Wade Millward, Elesa Paschke, 
  Raven Pritchett, David Williams, 
  Nika Zecevic
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Edit
orial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Study abroad in Europe this sum-
mer
Today, 2:30 p.m.Turlington Hall, Room 3312Enjoy pizza while hearing about summer study abroad programs to Brussels, Prague, Krakow and Salzburg with the Center for European Studies. For more details, call 352-392-8902, extension 207.
Islam 101: Back to the Basics
Today, 7 p.m.Reitz Union Rion BallroomThe group’s first lecture event of the month will be given by well-known speaker, Altaf Husain, regarding the basics of Islam. This is the most edu-cational and beneficial event of the month in terms of rais-ing awareness about Islam. For more information, please visit 
islamoncampus.com.
Ahn Trio with the Nai-Ni Chen 
Dance Company
Today, 7:30 p.m.Phillips Center for the Performing ArtsExperience an imaginative, cross-cultural collaboration between the Ahn Trio and the Nai-Ni Chen Dance Company as they draw inspiration from poetry , drama, music and dance to bring an artful fusion of Eastern splendor and Western dynamism. Student tickets are $12. Visit performingarts.ufl.edu for more information.
“Ignorance, Women and Excellent p.m.Justine, played by Kirsten Dunst, and Michael, played by Alexander Skarsgård, are celebrating their marriage at a party in the home of Justine’s sister, played by Charlotte Gainsbourg, and brother-in-law, played by Kiefer Sutherland. Meanwhile, the planet Melancholia, is heading toward Earth. Every showing is free and open to the public.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.Science”
Today, 7:30 p.m.Ustler Hall AtriumProfessor Carla Fehr of the University of Waterloo, philosopher of science and technology , will discuss the role of women in academic science and engineering re-search and the impact of sci-entific diversity on research innovation. A Q-and-A will follow. For more informa-tion, visit humanities.ufl.edu.
Why I Believe in God: The 
Moral Argument for the 
Existence of God
Today and Friday , 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and Saturday , 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.The Ocora at Pugh HallCome to this free lecture se-ries by UF alumnus Clifford Goldstein. Goldstein is an American author and editor. One of his recent books is “God, Godel, and Grace: A Philosophy of Faith.”For more information visit facebook.com/cliffordgold-steinuf or email uf.babyisaac@gmail.com.
Reitz Entertainment Board 
Presents: MelancholiaToday , 8:30 p.m. and 10:30 
PARTLY
CLOUDY
71/46PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/50PARTLY
CLOUDY
69/35PARTLY
CLOUDY
61/34PARTLY
CLOUDY
68/45MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
higher education
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
A UF education might not be as cheap as it 
used to be, but it’s still a top value, according to 
recent rankings.
UF is still in The Princeton Review’s top 
10 Best Value Colleges for 2012, although it dropped four spots in the rankings released Tuesday.
The university is listed seventh out of 75 pub-
lic universities. Last year, it was ranked third. 
Rankings were based on schools’ cost of at-
tendance, financial aid and academics. The data collected combined student surveys and school records. 
David Soto, senior editor of “Best Value Col-
leges: 2012 Edition,” the book in which the list was published, said the differentiation between the third- and seventh-ranked schools is very small. Because of all the data, he said it was hard to pinpoint one reason why UF slipped a few spots. 
“Moving a few spots does not change the 
fact that UF provides a great education at a low price,” he said. 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill was ranked number one on the public uni-versities list, while Williams College in Massa-chusetts topped the private university list. 
Because of UF’s comparatively low in-state 
tuition, it is no surprise that UF is among the top 10 again, said UF spokesman Steve Orlando. 
In-state tuition and fees for UF total at $5,700, according to the university’s website. The College Board website lists the average in-state public university tuition and fees cost as $8,244. 
“There has certainly been a lot of conversa-
tion about rising tuition, but we are still talking about tuition that is lower than the national in-state average,” Orlando said. “It is still an in-credible bargain.” 
Michelle Feole, a 21-year-old chemical engi-
neering junior, said she agrees that she is get-ting the best bang for her buck at UF. 
Along with the financial aid, Feole said she 
feels she is getting a top-quality education. 
“We complain about professors who don’t 
teach well,” she said, “but people at some of the best schools in the country who are paying $50,000 in tuition are complaining, too.” UF slips in ‘best value’ ranking
� THERE IS A LIST ON THE 
GPD WEBSITE.
CASEY MACIOGE
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the wake of 21 arrests in a sex-
ual predator operation, Gainesville 
residents may be wondering how they can keep an eye out for dan-ger.
Cpl. Angelina Valuri, Gainesville 
Police Department spokeswoman, said anyone can search the Florida Department of Law Enforcement website at offender.fdle.state.fl.us for registered predators or offend-ers.
Even if the offender or predator 
has two homes, he or she must reg-ister in both locations.
If you suspect a registered sex 
offender is living in your neighbor -
hood but hasn’t registered locally , you should contact local law en-forcement, Valuri said.
Gainesville rules state that peo-
ple who have committed a sexual crime against a child under 16 years of age can’t live within 2,500 feet of a school, daycare or park.
GPD’s website features a 
Gainesville map showing the 2,500-foot buffer zones for schools, day-cares and parks.
Visitors can also download a list 
of local transient sexual predators and offenders who have no known permanent address as of Nov. 7.
Jennifer Klein, a UF doctoral stu-
dent who teaches a course called Sex Offenders that discusses child por -
nography and pedophilia, said it’s important to make the distinction between offenders and predators.
The FDLE website provides de-
tailed definitions to help visitors distinguish between the two. 
Predators are worse than offend-
ers because they have been convict-ed of a capital, life or first- degree felony , Klein said. Predators have hurt small children, are violent and are a greater danger than offenders. 
“An 18-year-old man who had 
sex with his 16-year-old girlfriend, if convicted of statutory rape, is con-sidered a sexual offender,” she said. “You may not need to fear this per -
son like you would a sexual preda-tor.”Residents can locate city’s 
sex predators, offenders
top 10 Public colleges
1. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
2. University of Virginia3. New College of Florida4. State University of New York at Binghamton 5. University of Wisconsin6. College of William and Mary7. University of Florida8. University of Georgia9. University of Washington10. University of Texas at Austin4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Baby, Don’t Hurt Me
Gator Wesley Foundation Assistant Pastor Dan Wunderlich, Casey Zych, 21, Sydney Jones, 19, and Jessica 
Johnston, 21, sit at a table on the Plaza of the Americas. The table, which will be set up until Friday, is part of the Gator Wesley Foundation’s Love Campaign, encouraging passerby to share their ideas on love. 
CAROLYN HAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
     
Bridget Grogan is afraid her son will spend 
spring break without her again.
Tuesday’s public hearing at the Alachua 
County School Board meeting left Grogan, a UF employee, with little hope that the board will vote in favor of coordinating Alachua County Public Schools’ 2013 spring break with those of UF and Santa Fe College.
Results from a poll conducted by the Ala-
chua County Education Association showed an overwhelming opposition by ACEA mem-bers to the proposed spring break alignment.
Karen McCann, ACEA president, said 740 
teachers and staff voted against aligning the spring breaks and only 79 voted in favor of it.
Grogan, who spent 12 of her 14 years at UF 
as a single mom, said it’s almost impossible for UF faculty and staff to take time off during the semester.
She said keeping separate spring breaks is 
financially hard on UF and SFC parents, who pay expensive rates for childcare during the county break. It also robs children and parents of family time.
McCann said teachers and staff are con-cerned a joint spring break would allow stu-dents easy access to alcohol through older col-lege students. She also said teachers worry the long gap between an early break and FCAT testing would cause students to be burned out by testing time.
Grogan disagrees. She said the time shift 
doesn’t guarantee a student’s failure of the FCAT anymore than keeping the present schedule would guarantee success.
“Why make kids suffer and sit home alone 
for a week so we can cram FCAT review down their throats during the weeks the teachers think are convenient?” she asked.Grogan has some support from the coun-
ty.
Barbara Buys, principal of Kimball Wiles 
Elementary School, said her school’s advisory committee, faculty and PTA liked the idea of having the same spring break.
She isn’t worried about high school and 
college students having a joint spring break.
“There’s always some college kid on break 
there at the beach, no matter where you go,” she said.
The School Board is expected to announce 
its decision during its next meeting on Feb. 21.
School Board weighs aligning spring break with UF, Santa Fe
KATHERINE HAHN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Graduate Manage-
ment Admission Test, or 
GMAT, will include a new reasoning section starting this summer.
An additional section of 
the standardized exam will be added in June, according to a Kaplan Test Prep press release on Wednesday.    
The test is used to evaluate 
students applying to gradu-ate-level management pro-grams, according to GMAT’s website. 
“A GMAT score at a top-
tier institution is always go-ing to be an important ele-ment of consideration,” said Alexander Sevilla, director of UF MBA Programs and assistant dean at the Hough Graduate School of Business.
The new integrated rea-
soning section will test stu-dents’ ability to balance dif-ferent sources of information to answer questions, said Andrew Mitchell, director of Kaplan Test Prep pre-busi-ness programs. He is also a GMAT instructor for Kaplan. 
The exam currently con-
tains writing, verbal and quantitative sections, he said. 
Adding integrated rea-
soning is the first significant change to the GMAT in 15 years. 
College students can take 
the GMAT before June and avoid preparing for the new section, Mitchell said. All scores are valid for five years, including those from before the change. GMAT to add new 
section in June
KELSEY GRENTZER
Alligator Contributing Writer
An iPhone application invented by a 
Nashville, Tenn., man can tell UF students 
how drunk they are.
BreathalEyes, invented by Clay Brad-
ley, works by taking a rapid series of snap-shots of a user’s eye. It then uses the photos to detect involuntary jerking movements of the eye, called horizontal gaze nystag-mus, that can happen when people drink.
Bradley would not say how many 
times the app has been downloaded since its launch due to a privacy policy. He said 36 people in Florida visited the app’s web-site from Jan. 8 to Feb. 7 and that the app’s target audience is young adults.
Some UF students said they thought 
the app was worth the 99-cent price, but some were skeptical about using it as a gauge of sobriety.
Bradley said he hopes the app, which is 
only meant to be used by people who have been drinking, will help young adults stay safe when they drink.
The app, which was released Nov. 21, 
reports the user’s blood alcohol level, but it will never give a level of zero for legal reasons, Bradley said.
BreathalEyes is available on Apple products and works best on the iPhone 4, he said. It should be available for Android phones later this year.
Jesse Arnold, an interactive media de-
veloper for UF’s Digital Worlds Institute, said the idea seems marketable, especially to college students.
“I imagine there’s some market for 
them — whether it’s people wanting to know if they’re safe to drive or if it’s just like a party game,” he said.
Student reaction ranged from skepti-
cism to acceptance.
“This app will allow young adults to 
make the decision whether they should drive or not,” said Teresa Dao, a 19-year-old telecommunication sophomore.
Brandi Applebaum, an 18-year-old 
marketing freshman, said she thinks the app could cause more problems than it fixes.
“I think it’s cool, but I think it could be 
dangerous if it’s highly inaccurate and un-derestimates the blood alcohol level.”App determines inebriation
� STUDENTS RENTING THE        
PHILLIPS CENTER WILL PAY MORE.
CHRIS ALCANTARA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students and nonprofit organizations 
planning to use the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts will face a discount reduc-tion starting this summer.
The 20 percent discount currently offered 
will be reduced to 10 percent beginning in July as part of a three-year plan imple-mented by the Phillips Center, said Michael Blachly, director of UF Performing Arts.
The plan, put into effect July 1, 2010, re-
duces the rental discount from 50 percent to 10 percent over the course of three fiscal years, Blachly said. 
The discount was reduced to 30 percent 
in 2010 and to 20 percent in 2011. Starting July 1, the discount will be 10 percent. 
Blachly said the center received tax 
funds until 2006. For two years, it looked for alternative funding. Beginning in 2008, Phillips Center administrators announced that they would need to reduce nonprofit and student discounts. This continued for two years.
The center needed to pay for mainte-
nance to the facility to ensure user safety, Blachly said.
“The stage is basically a construction 
site,” he said. “If things start to go bad, it can go bad in a hurry.”
He said a discount will always be offered 
to student and nonprofit organizations.
Amanda Rose, a 21-year-old English se-
nior and vice president of Floridance, said she does not believe the reduced discount will affect her dance company’s ability to perform at the Phillips Center.
Rose said the funding received from the 
Florida Players theater company helps pay for Floridance performances at the Phillips Center once a semester.
However, Rose said the company is al-
ways at risk of losing funding because of budget cuts. This could make performing at the Phillips Center expensive with the drop to the 10 percent discount this summer.
“We would not like to end that tradi-
tion,” she said. Facility-use discount to decrease
“This app will allow young 
adults to make the decision 
whether they should drive or not.” 
Teresa Dao
UF sophomoreAn anti-hazing committee re-
cently formed at UF at the request 
of Frank Brogan, chancellor of the State University System of Florida. 
Administrators, a professor and 
a student make up the committee, which met last week for the first time to review the university’s haz-ing policies.
Kratzer said the committee’s goal 
is not to target the Greek system but to examine possible hazing occur -
ring in areas across campus.
“Let’s take a look at the whole 
university,” he said.
Student Body President Antho-ny Reynolds said everyone should have respect for the investigation process before jumping to conclu-sions.
“When the facts do come out, I 
know that they will be handled in the proper way,” he said.
Alpha Phi Alpha is a National 
Pan-Hellenic Council fraternity. 
NPHC is comprised of nine his-
torically African-American fraterni-ties and sororities. 
According to the fraternity’s 
website, Alpha Phi Alpha was the first intercollegiate Greek-letter fra-ternity for African-Americans, and it was founded at Cornell Univer -
sity in Ithaca, N.Y., in 1906.UF formed anti-hazing 
committee in January THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
Lauren Book, founder of Lauren’s Kids, and her supporters wave at they walk down 
Museum Drive near Lake Alice Tuesday as part of the “Walk in My Shoes” campaign. 
hAzing , from page 1� IN 2011 THERE WERE 11 ATTACKS IN 
FLORIDA.
AYANA STEWART
Alligator Contributing Writer
An annual UF report released Tuesday 
showed a decrease in shark attacks in the U.S. 
but a rise for the rest of the world.
The report found 75 instances of unprovoked 
shark attacks worldwide. Out of those attacks, 29 incidents happened in the United States — the lowest since 1998. 
According to George Burgess, the director of 
the Florida Program for Shark Research, Florida has the most attacks nationwide. Burgess said Florida’s population and popularity as a tourist destination contribute to the number of attacks. 
In 2011, there were 11 attacks in Florida, com-
pared to 13 in 2010.
“You’ve got a lot of people in the water year round,” Burgess said. “The opportunities are there for interactions between the two species, and they do occur.”
Some UF students aren’t concerned with 
shark attacks.
Dyann Lesnever, a 19-year-old telecommuni-
cation freshman from Miami, said he visits the beach regularly.
“Before I moved to Gainesville, I used to go at 
least three times a month,” Lesnever said. “We always check the flags to see if there are any jellyfish, but we’ve never had reason to worry about shark attacks.”Shark attack numbers remain 
stable in state, down nationallyALEXANDRA VENTURA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lauren Book wants you to know there’s 
life after sexual abuse. 
Book, the CEO and founder of sexual 
assault prevention organization Lauren’s 
Kids, spoke to about 20 people on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday.
She talked about preventing and dealing 
with sexual abuse, then led attendees on a walk to Lake Alice.
Book came to Gainesville  for Walk in My 
Shoes, an annual statewide 39-day event that raises awareness for childhood sexual abuse. Gainesville was one of 39 stops on the walk from Key West to Tallahassee. 
Although Book’s organization focuses 
on childhood sexual abuse, she said she wanted to let college students know they aren’t alone.
“It is important that you guys know what to do and where to go, and that you know it’s okay to tell,” Book said. “This is supposed to be an exciting time for you.”
Book was sexually assaulted by her fam-
ily nanny for six years during her child-hood.
Afterward, she said, she struggled with 
anorexia. She hit a low weight of 70 pounds and faced organ failure before she began working through it.
“We are at a time where we are begin-
ning to look at the issues of sexual assault,” Book said. “This is what’s behind closed doors of people’s homes.”
Samantha White, a 20-year-old criminol-
ogy junior, came to watch Book speak.
“I think Lauren is incredibly inspira-
tional,” White said. “She’s a woman who has been through so much and is using her negative experience to help others. It’s tru-ly amazing.” Cross-state walk raises awareness for childhood sexual abuse
“You’ve got a lot of people in the 
water year round. The opportunities 
are there for interactions between the 
two species, and they do occur.”
George Burgess
director of the Florida Program for Shark Re-
searchWalk is annual 39-day eventReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Have you ever witnessed or been 
subjected to hazing?
Wednesday’s question: Do you support 
the overturning of Proposition 8? 
124 TOTAL VOTES73% YES
27% NOUse What You Got
Bill of Rights provides 
for marriage equality
A closer look at the Bill of Rights could give same-sex 
marriage advocates the tools they need to ensure mar -
riage equality nationwide.
In the controversial 1965 Supreme Court decision Gris-
wold v. Connecticut, the court ruled that there exists a “right to privacy,” striking down a Connecticut law prohibiting the use of contraceptives.
A quick reading of the Bill of Rights shows that no such 
language actually exists in the document. So how did the court come to the conclusion that we have this so-called “right to privacy”?
In fact, many of our freedoms are not mentioned in the Bill 
of Rights. For instance, few would argue that we do not have the right to travel or to enter into contracts or even the right to intoxicate ourselves, despite the fact that no such amend-ments address this issue — except for one.
The Ninth Amendment states, “The enumeration in the 
Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.”
In other words, the fact that the Constitution lists specif-
ic rights in the previous eight amendments does not mean that those are the only rights we, as individuals, have. It also means that the government should not use the Bill of Rights as a complete list of rights in order to deny us other free-doms.
Supporters of Proposition 8 are using the 10th Amendment 
to argue that the state of California has the right to decide on same-sex marriage. However, the 10th Amendment does not mean that states can create laws that violate other rights.
The rights of states to decide laws end where individual 
rights begin.
And, of course, no court yet has ruled that the Ninth 
Amendment creates a right to marry. However, by pairing the Ninth Amendment with the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment, proponents of same-sex marriage might have a good chance to achieve their goals if this issue reaches the Supreme Court.
If the Fourth Amendment prohibits the state from com-
ing into your home without reasonable cause, does this not imply that the government should keep out of your sexual business as well?
Because the First Amendment prevents the government 
from respecting an establishment of religion, does this not imply that the government refrain from using religion as a basis for defining marriage?
And because marriage is actually a religious institution, 
does this not imply that the government should abstain from preventing religious institutions from performing marriage ceremonies for whomever they choose, regardless of sexual orientation?
By using the Bill of Rights as their guide, same-sex mar -
riage proponents should be successful in arguing for mar -
riage equality if this case makes it to the high court.
In the meantime, things are looking good.Obama ‘hypocrite’ for taking super PAC money
I am officially alarmed by President Barack Obama’s hy-
pocrisy. 
The Supreme Court case Citizens United v. Federal 
Elections Commission was a landmark decision that allows so-called super PACs to collect unlimited and undisclosed funds from corporations to spend on political campaigns. For months, Obama denounced the decision and shunned these unlimited contributions. Obama — having reversed his position last Monday and given his blessing to his super PAC — is nothing short of a hypocrite.
Since the Supreme Court released the ruling, Obama 
railed that unlimited corporate spending was “a threat to our democracy.” In his 2010 State of the Union address, Obama said of the decision, “I don’t think American elec-tions should be bankrolled by America’s most powerful in-terests.” Monday morning, Obama spoke against the “nega-tive” tone of the super PACs. By Monday evening, word had leaked that Obama decided to allow his super PAC, Priorities USA Action, to raise the unlimited funds he once condemned.
In less than 24 hours, Obama went from decrying super 
PACs to endorsing their money. Will he stop at nothing to win re-election?
Embracing the very same policies he once denounced 
is the definition of duplicitous. Make no mistake, Obama made a political calculation. Having seen that Mitt Rom-ney’s super PAC raised more than $30 million compared to Obama’s mere $4.1 million, he became worried. He knew that without his blessing, his super PAC would not be able to collect donations. He would not be able to compete with the Republican nominee in 2012. He would not be able to win re-election.
In a blog post attempting to explain the decision, Obama’s 
campaign manager, Jim Messina, states the Citizens United decision represents “a dangerous trend toward a political system increasingly dominated by big-money interests with disproportionate power to spend freely to influence our elections and our government.”
But the president has no choice but to embrace the sys-tem. Fight fire with fire. His cam-paign manager whines that they cannot “play by two different sets of rules.” Mr. President, you do not change the system by embrac-ing it. You cannot preach against something and then practice it. You cannot shout a call for change and then participate in the very same things you wish to change.
Make no mistake: I completely agree that the Citizens 
United ruling is the single most harmful thing to happen to our political process in the last century. I believe the president was correct in his initial stance opposing the deci-sion. But now that he is collecting the fruits of a decision he opposes, I fear that our political system will devolve into something unrecognizable.
I knew it would happen. Politicians would take an ini-
tial stance against the decision, but they would eventually realize that they could never compete in an election against candidates who embraced these unlimited funds. Ultimate-ly, opposition would fizzle out as candidates embraced the multi-million dollar corporate checks. Money talks, and right now it’s shouting “re-election.”
Mark my words, if our campaign finance laws remain 
unchanged, our political system will become more corrupt than ever in the history of this country. Anonymous corpo-rations will write multi-million dollar checks to candidates and eventually exercise powerful control over our govern-ment. Big banks and big businesses will buy politicians and policies will follow.
The president is like a captain who is steering this ship 
of state. He should not be swayed by the political winds or the currents of convenience. He must remain on course to arrive at the destination. Our destination should be finding a way of reversing this Supreme Court ruling. Our desti-nation should be campaign finance reform. Our destination should not be hypocrisy.
Garrett Bruno is a political science sophomore at UF.
Garrett Bruno
opinions@alligator.org THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Contrary to popular sentiment, the chapter of our na-
tion’s history known as the civil rights movement has yet to be complete.
The pages of history will describe the women’s suffrage 
movement, the end of Jim Crow, de jure segregation and the election of the first African-American president among the achievements of the past century.
However, there still exists an injustice in the U.S. so sig-
nificant that it deserves the same attention, public outrage and commitment from our generation. This injustice is the preva-lence of educational inequity within the U.S. education sys-tem.
Currently , factors such as race, economics and a child’s 
background play an influential role in determining whether or not a student receives a quality education in the U.S.
Only 8 percent of students from low-income communities 
graduate college by the age of 24.
In comparison, their peers in more affluent communities 
graduate at a rate of 80 percent by the same age, according to research conducted by postsecondary.org.
Simply put, these achievement gaps are unacceptable in a 
nation that prides itself on equality and equal access.
Our generation must take up this cause and consider edu-cational inequity a chapter of the civil rights movement that has yet to be written. Just like the Rev. Martin Lu-ther King Jr., we too must articulate a dream for our nation’s future. This 
dream should include the belief that all children, regardless of their background or life circumstances, deserve a high-quality education.
Though much debate exists on how to make this dream a 
reality, it is almost universally accepted that teachers will play an integral role in eradicating educational inequity.
Therefore, providing all students with motivated, talented 
and inspiring teachers must be a major goal of our nation’s education system. This belief is central to the mission of Teach For America.
Since Teach For America’s founding in 1989, the national 
nonprofit organization has sent hundreds of Gators into the nation’s highest-need schools to work as full-time teachers.
This year, 63 Gators have already been accepted into the 
corps, according to Caity Hickey, the recruitment manager at UF. I myself will be among this group and in the fall will begin teaching middle school socials studies in Miami-Dade County . I know the challenges ahead will be immense, but in speaking of his generation’s civil rights movement, King once stated, “Change does not roll in on the wheels of inevitability , but comes through continuous struggle.”
Teaching in our nation’s highest need schools will un-
doubtedly be a struggle for all those accepted into the corps, but I could not think of a more important issue worth strug-gling for.
Will Teach For America members solve all the problems at 
the heart of our nation’s education system? Absolutely not.
Structural changes to education must ultimately occur if 
we are to eradicate educational inequity in the U.S. However, until these changes are made, our generation must act on the behalf of the millions of young students who are in need of positive role models and inspirational teachers.
Moreover, I hope that the classroom experience I gain as a 
corps member will contribute to my ability to fight for struc-tural changes within our education system in the future.
I urge more Gators to join me in this cause and to apply for 
Teach For America by the final application deadline on Feb. 10.
More information about Teach For America and its appli-
cation process can be found at teachforamerica.org.
Andrew Hecht is a political science and history senior at UF.
Teach for America hopes to end educational inequality in USGuest column
Andrew Hecht
Speaking OutOn Jan. 31, representatives of the 
Amalgamated Transit Union, which represents Regional Transit 
System bus drivers, mechanics, mainte-nance workers and administrative staff, sat down with the City of Gainesville to rene-gotiate their pension.
However, the ATU representatives were 
forced to leave the meeting after the city refused to discuss in good faith the cost impacts of their own proposal and instead stubbornly reiterated cuts to bus driver pensions.
RTS buses are the veins and arteries of 
Gainesville. Students and working people rely heavily on bus services to get to and from class and work.
Without RTS bus drivers, Gainesville 
would be unable to function in the man-ner it does today. Yet despite the central role they play in education and commerce in Gainesville, these hard-working drivers are subjected to forced overtime, stagnant wages, looming cuts to their pensions and an ineffective grievance procedure.
More than any other single issue on 
campus, students overwhelmingly want more efficient bus routes and public trans-portation.
Student Government elections, which 
are right around the corner, almost always feature platform promises from parties to improve RTS services.If they are serious about fulfilling those 
promises, they should stand with the ATU and resolutely support their demands for a fair contract.
Instead of hiring more drivers for under-
staffed routes, RTS requires its drivers to work overtime, sometimes up to 60 hours a week. As a result, drivers are more tired when they go to work, which increases the risk of accidents.
Although hiring more drivers would 
improve bus routes and efficiency, it would cost RTS more in wage and pension pay-ments.
So, in order to avoid paying salaries for 
new drivers and staff, RTS simply forces its small workforce to work overtime and passes the bill onto the university, which is responsible for covering the vast majority of time-and-a-half wages from overtime.
In essence, forced overtime means stu-
dents pay more for a less-efficient and less-safe bus service, and bus drivers are placed in the uncomfortable position of working longer hours than they should.
Despite their long work hours, RTS 
drivers have not seen a raise since 2009 when the city increased wages by a meager 1 percent. More disturbingly, Gainesville bus drivers saw their pensions attacked in the last year by both the state legislature and the city.
Last year, the state placed draconian restrictions on pension contri-butions, which limited the amount of over -
time earnings 
that can go toward employee pensions to 300 hours annually.
Now, the city wants to further raid the 
bus drivers’ hard-earned pensions by lim-iting the overtime earning contribution to 80 hours per year.
The city also upholds an extremely un-
fair grievance arbitration policy for bus drivers who have legitimate concerns at work.
When drivers have a dispute with man-
agement, they can have the city arbitrate and resolve the conflict. However, even if the city rules in favor of the driver, both sides have to pay 50 percent of the cost of arbitration, which creates a financial disin-centive for drivers to bring up controver -
sial grievances.
These legal costs can range anywhere 
from $3,000 to $7,000 depending on the complexity of the case, but even when the city rules in favor of the driver, the ATU is still on the hook for 50 percent of the arbi-tration costs.
As the primary provider of transporta-
tion operating costs and with UF students comprising 75 percent of RTS’s ridership, UF is in a unique position to play a deci-sive role in the ATU’s struggle to ensure justice for Gainesville bus drivers.
UF pays for 51 percent of RTS’s trans-
portation services, largely with students’ activity and service fees. 
With enough pressure from students 
and the UF administration, the City of Gainesville will have no choice but to pur -
sue a dignified and fair contract for RTS drivers.
RTS is an invaluable service to our cam-
pus and community that doesn’t operate as well as it could if the city was more at-tentive to the needs of its drivers. 
The entire Gator Nation should stand in 
solidarity with the ATU in demanding an end to the policy of forced overtime, stag-nant wages and pension cuts, and it should support the ATU’s demand for a fair griev-ance arbitration procedure.
If you’re interested in getting involved 
in the struggle for a fair contract for Gaines-ville’s bus drivers and a better RTS system, come out to the weekly Students for a Democratic Society meeting on Monday at 6:30 p.m. in Anderson 32. You can get more information regarding the campaign on the Gainesville Area SDS Facebook group.
Dave Schneider is a Zone 1 Coordinator 
and Florida AFL-CIO. Cassia Laham is a Gainesville Area Students for a Democratic Society Organizer
Students should give their support to RTS bus driversGuest column
Dave Schneider
Cassia Lahan
Speaking OuttheAvenue    
Willy’s does a lot for 
the envrionment and for students. Read more on page 10.Greek life from a different perspective. 
Read all about a different point-of-view of the Greek 
system - from the international students. Story on page 12.Parisleaf combines design with environment: 
Check out page 9 to read about a local business that’s trying to give back to the world one tree at a time. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
DANA BURKE
Avenue Writer
Hanger by hanger, Korrie Francis 
takes her time sifting through the racks at the local Goodwill, first 
looking for a style that catches her eye, then feeling the fabric for quality and checking the label for a designer brand.
Francis, a UF journalism sophomore, 
takes as much time as she needs because, for her, time is money.  Today she sorts careful-ly through thrift stores to find vintage cloth-ing items and in-trend pieces to sell online. Her passion has turned to profit.
Unlike most fashionistas, who shop sole-
ly with the intent to find cute things, Francis, a self-proclaimed history buff, does her re-search ahead of time to nab the best items.
“I look up the history behind major pat-
terns and styles of a decade,” she said.  “I can go into thrift stores and be like, ‘Oh, that’s from the sixties because it has psyche-delic patterns.’”
To her, vintage clothes speak, telling a 
part of history and giving the clothes a spe-cial meaning that should be treasured.  
“It gives clothes a more personal feel 
when you know where they came from,” she said.  “Like a shirt that’s 30 years old, it’s not just fresh off the rack.  It’s been through time, and other people have had it.”
Francis, 19, was introduced to this eco-
nomical way of shopping by her mother, whose interest in interior decorating influ-enced her daughter’s ability to find nice things for low prices by using thrift stores. The habit stuck with Francis.
“It’s kind of like a secret, like a treasure 
hunt,” Francis said.  “You walk into a thrift store and there are so many racks and you wonder what good finds are in there.  It’s exhilarating.”
About a year ago, out of necessity, an un-
employed Francis decided to turn her col-lection of vintage pieces into dollar signs by setting up an eBay account and selling her finds under the seller name kfrancis25.
“I did a lot of research looking for simi-
lar products and figuring out how to write a good description and price things,” she said.  “There’s just so much on eBay and it’s im-portant to know how to list things to make them stand out.”
She admits to being an eBay-aholic — for 
research purposes. Simple searches on the site help her recognize brands and know what is selling for a lot of money.
Her boyfriend, Nick Barlow, 21, agreed 
that she’s addicted to eBay, but he’s happy her hobby has her making money as op-
posed to spending it.
“Korrie uses eBay as 
a learning tool as to price things in the same way as if she had an actual store,” Barlow said.
This is a starting point 
for Francis, who hopes to one day have her own website to display and sell her finds, both vintage and new.
As she looks through the dresses at Good-
will, her own outfit is reflective of the mix of old pieces and new labels available for pur -
chase from her eBay account.   
A delicate thrifted bangle sits on her wrist 
next to a similar bracelet that she purchased new.  Through the belt loops of her store-bought Forever 21 pants is a black leather belt with a gold buckle purchased from a thrift store. 
On her feet, a pair of Lord & Taylor vin-
tage boots completes the sharp and stylish look.“I like to be casual on a day-to-day ba-
sis but also polished and put together and a little quirky,” she said.
Francis doesn’t just shop for the finds. Among her favorite places to hunt for 
vintage treasure are church and charity thrift stores, including the Alachua County Humane Society Thrift Store.
“I like shopping at charity thrift stores be-
cause the money goes back to a good cause,” she said. “It’s nice to find something great that benefits you and also benefits some -
body else.”
Her all-time favorite item that she ever 
sold on eBay was a Gucci purse, which she credits her mom for finding at a garage sale for about $3.
Francis sold it for $90.“It was the best find,” she said. “I should 
have kept it now that I think about it. I sold it pretty early on when I needed to make money.”
Although it’s one of her favorite hobbies, 
Francis realizes that thrifting is not for ev-eryone.
“Everybody is entitled to their own style, 
I just think thrift stores are a good resource, especially for college students,” she said.  
“It’s great to find something for such 
good quality for the price of pennies.”
Fifth Avenue Fashion: Korrie Francis is a Frugal Fashionista
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
With the right amount of swag, Francis can teach you how to rock any budget.
Dana burke / Alligator Staff
Korrie Francis checks out some bargain racks, hoping to find a steal.
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
KAY BEA
Avenue Writer
The other day , I received a text message 
from the new boy who I like. It had a short, 
sweet “hey , how are you?” implication, yet conveyed this salutation with clever wording based on an inside joke that was developing between us. This text was, in a way, quite tit-illating. Upon seeing it illuminate my phone, I felt amused, excited and even a little turned on — simultaneous emotions that indicate the intensity of my crush is growing bolder. Yeah, I like this one.
Of course, the first rule when it comes to 
flirtatious text messages is to conceal the in-terest I’ve just described.  It’s great that some-one is giving me the attention that I want, but come on, I can’t let him know that just yet.  The situation is delicate and must be handled with utmost care — respond too soon, and one risks appearing over-eager, readily available and, my least favorite “D-” word of all time: des-perate.  
However, on the flip side, if one waits too 
long to return the correspondence, there is a possibility of sending false signals of the “I’m not too interested” type.  (Rule of thumb: Give it 15 to 60 minutes, depending on how well you know each other, before sending the first reply . If the conversation begins to flow, lessen the wait time. After all, it’s only polite to re-ward good behavior.)
This got me thinking about the games we 
play in the roulette of text messages.  In some ways, the text has opened possibilities in rela-tionship communication that would probably blow Alexander Graham Bell’s mind. Texting allows us to be poignant, to think an extra few seconds before we speak and to turn on the 
witty charm using 160 char -
acters or less.  Want to melt a girl’s heart?  Interrupt her day with an adorable quip consisting of equal parts humor and flattery .  If she returns the favor, you’re golden.
But what happens when the feeling isn’t 
mutual?  When a message is sent, but goes un-answered?  Or, the worst, when the reply hap-pens days later with a, sorry-my-phone-died lie?  We all know the solution to this quandary is simple, albeit a blow to the ego: Give up. Take the number out of your phone to resist a repeat offense and move on. Yet for some reason, the element of challenge presents itself and entices some of us to persist, to attempt to break down the wall and evolve our shame from text-reject into the morning-after walk.
In my crush’s case, I have to admit that 
he has mastered the balance of an effective, complimentary, humorous and cute text. Cor -
respondence is initiated on a regular, but not excessively frequent, basis that implies he’s available, but not clingy .  
Oh, plus he uses proper grammar and 
leaves the emoticons to a minimum — what an adult! The better half of me knows that this is, in its own right, a type of game. But it’s one that I’ll play a little longer.
The Art of Flying Solo, Topic 4: Mixed (Text) Messages
MICHAEL NEWMAN
Avenue Writer
A few blocks from campus on 
University Avenue, there lies an 
inconspicuous little office build-ing. Tucked behind a thick patch of trees, Parisleaf Printing and Design might not even be seen by passers-by. But if you spend enough time in Gainesville, you will be sure to see its work, as more local businesses are choosing the year-old firm because of its focus on the environment.
The company operates on a 
unique premise: For every order, the company plants a minimum of ten trees, effectively producing more than what is consumed. Working with local and global organizations, Parisleaf planted 7,000 trees in 2011. Its achievement didn’t go unnoticed — Parisleaf won the Gainesville Chamber of Commerce Business of the Year award for Commitment to the Environment last year.
In addition to the company’s 
commitment to carbon neutrality , Parisleaf also uses soy- and vegeta-ble- based inks for all of its printing, as well as 100 percent wind power for the production of all its print-ing materials. All the paper is made from mostly recycled sources also.
Chad and Alison Paris, both 23, 
founded Parisleaf Printing and De-sign on June 3, 2010. Chad Paris, a business marketing and manage-ment graduate of Gainesville State College in Georgia, decided to open shop here while his wife studies cog-nitive neuroscience in UF’s graduate program. He knew the economy was rough, so he decided to go into something businesses always need.
“There’s nothing that makes you 
more recession-proof than start-ing your business in the middle of a recession,” Chad Paris said. This courageous logic led him to focus on printing and design. He learned that the printing industry consumes an area of forest equivalent to the size of a football field.
This fact forced him to think of a 
green alternative. Parisleaf’s prom-ise to plant at least ten trees for every printing order extends to plant 100 trees for every Web-design order. By doing this, Chad Paris hopes to pro-mote web-based promotional mate-rial instead of wasteful print.
About half of those trees are per -sonally planted by Chad Paris and the company’s employees, in part-nership with local Neutral Gator at the Alachua Conservation Trust. Three times a year, the group works to plant from 2,000 to 5,000 trees lo-cally. The rest are planted through-out the world, through a partnership with Trees for the Future, a charity that has been working since 1989.
Of course, the other half of the 
company is design. Chad Paris’ pas-sion for design started about five years ago when he worked for a screen-printing company . The young marketing graduate quickly learned the ropes of design but eventually left to come to Gainesville while his wife attends UF.
“That’s what really introduced 
me to creativity ,” Chad Paris said, and he works to carry that to Paris-leaf. The company’s portfolio can be viewed online at www.parisleaf.com.
His company employs seven 
people, working mostly with local businesses and different academic departments at UF. “We’re always 
looking for interns, especially with a passion for public speaking and sus-tainability,” Chad Paris explained.
The future looks bright for the 
Parisleaf family. In 2012, the com-pany plans to expand its office to accommodate not only its growing business, but for its campaign for so-cial entrepreneurship as well.
“We’re a unique company be-
cause our focus is on eco-friendly business, but we want other compa-nies to follow our lead,” he said.
Gainesville printing business gives back to environmentenvironment
CHRIS ALCANTARA
Avenue Writer
Gainesville is a city known not only for its 
large college population and vibrant night-
life but also for its ability to draw the appeal of major restaurant chains from all over the country.
The city , of course, has its McDonald’s, 
Zaxby’s, Five Guys and the recent re-addition of a Wendy’s. A recent rise in the opening of Mexican restaurants, however, has taken the city by storm. But which place has the best na-chos, the best sauce and the best burritos?
Willy’s Mexicana Grill, at 3617 SW Archer 
Road, made its quiet entry into the Mexican food game last fall with its soft opening on Nov. 30.
The restaurant had its grand opening on 
Jan. 16.
Founded by Willy Bitter in 1995, Willy’s 
has expanded in the last 15 years to become a well-known Mexican food chain in Atlanta.
The restaurant buys all of its produce lo-
cally and its meats from southern Georgia.
Gonzalez said the restaurant does not own 
a freezer as another way to keep its food fresh for customers.
“Everything is prepped by hand,” he said.Along with Willy’s desire to provide cus-
tomers the freshest food possible, one of the restaurant’s goals is to become more energy efficient. Gonzalez said Willy’s is the only es-tablishment in Gainesville using Product Soak, meaning it is using less water and chemicals to wash its fruits and vegetables prior to cook-ing.To lower electricity usage, Willy’s uses two 
Big Ass Fans to cool the restaurant when tem-peratures rise. The restaurant has an estimated 40 percent lower utility bill compared to other similar sized restaurants, Gonzalez said.
“We try not to waste any energy,” he said.To appeal to college students, Willy’s plans 
to offer its building and services, which will include catering, to student organizations.
“Any student group that wants to do any-
thing with us, we can use our truck or have our food and marketing tools,” Gonzalez said. “We’ll do anything because we want to be part of the community.”
Jamie Sison, a 20-year old dietetic junior, 
was raised in Atlanta and has been a fan of Willy’s food for four years.
When hearing the news a Willy’s was open-
ing in Gainesville, Sison said she was excited.
“I prefer this to Moe’s,” she said. “I believe 
the flavors are much more distinctive.”
Sitting with Sison was Kiki Chidiac, a 20-
year-old food and resource economics junior.
It was Chidiac’s first Willy’s experience.“It’s really good,” she said. “Definitely a lot 
of variety, and it’s pretty cool that the restau-rant has a bunch of vegetarian stuff.”
Gonzalez said Willy’s will continue its ef-
forts to remain energy efficient and will strive to make a positive impact on the Gainesville community.10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Try Willy’s as an alternative to the other Mexican restaurants for a fresh taste.
Fresh Mexican food is simply the way Willy’s does it
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
In the summer of 2008, Adam 
Bowers was a UF class of 2007 tele-
communication graduate stuck in Gainesville. With the help of some friends, $2,000 and about five weeks to kill, he made a movie. “New Low” isn’t just any movie, though; it is his creation.
He wrote, directed, produced, 
edited and starred in the fiction film, loosely based on his life, that even-tually earned him critical acclaim at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival.
“New Low” follows unambitious 
twenty-something Wendell, played by Bower, as he struggles deciding between two girls and, ultimately , two different versions of himself.
Wendell’s first love interest in the 
film, Vicky , fits the neurotic mold. This dumpster-diving chick isn’t ex-actly the most emotionally healthy human being, but that doesn’t keep Wendell away . 
After what can only be described 
as a wacky one-night stand, they start a relationship in which the most refined activity they partake in is attending art gallery openings for free food.
Things get messy when Wendell 
realizes he is interested in another girl. She is the opposite of Vicky. Jo-anna is educated, nice, selfless, fun and really likes Wendell and wants to help him. Not too tough of a choice, right? Not for Wendell.Bowers commented on the over -
arching theme of this subtly roman-tic comedy: “Why is it so easy to date these girls who I think are such train wrecks, but I can’t date this one girl who I think is amazing? Like we don’t have anything in common?”
Most of the actors in the film 
were friends he made through UF’s Theatre Strike Force, a club he joined during his last semester at UF. 
“New Low” was made and set in 
Gainesville. Mother’s Pub & Grill is featured prominently, as well as Par -
amount Grill and the Hippodrome State Theatre, and many scenes are set on West University Avenue. 
Submitted to the Sundance Film 
Festival per the urging of his film-maker friend, Bowers was ready to put “New Low” behind him. 
“I drove my submission to their 
office on the very last day , and I then just forgot about it cause I assumed it was a waste of $100. And then they called,” Bowers said. His film was chosen to premiere at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival in Park City , Utah.
“New Low” is now available for 
digital download on iTunes, view-ing on Hulu or for purchase through the movie’s website at www.new-lowmovie.com.
“People either like it a lot, or they 
can’t get into it. But I am totally OK with that,” Bowers said of his dead-pan, Woody Allen-esque romantic comedy.
Bowers lives in L.A. where he is 
producing a new movie — the tra-ditional way this time. He is in a happy , healthy relationship. 
He attributes this success to be-
ing not as much of a wreck.12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
Photo still from “New Low”
Adam Bowers is one of the biggest method actors of our time. He became himself to play this role.
Gainesville grad makes it into the Sundance Film Festival
By ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer 
To UF students, the Greek community is a normal and con-
stant component of our university. But to a foreigner, these 
Sperry-clad, preppy students who seem to be constantly sport-ing gang signs may not seem so ordinary . 
More than 4,200 students were members of Greek organiza-
tions as of 2000, according to UF’s website. According to the UF Fact Book, about 4,000 students enrolled in the Fall 2010 semes-ter were international students. I am a resident of Weaver Hall, otherwise know as the international dorm because, according to the Department of Housing, all international students who wish to live on campus are assigned to Weaver. 
“They call it Greek, but it’s not really,” said Priyanka Parmar, 
19, a sociology sophomore from Leicester, England. “Nothing about it is Greek. My best friend at home is Greek, and I don’t see anything here that’s Greek.” 
She said she thinks it’s just a name assigned to them. Bibi Iqbal, 19, a biochemistry sophomore from Oxford, Eng-
land, had a contrasting opinion.  
“I think the way the media portrays them as very stuck up, 
blond-hair bimbo types, but I feel like they are not like that at all,” she said. “At least not all of them.” “It’s nice in some ways because you get to meet people from 
different years and different majors,” she said. “So I think in that way it’s good, and you get to do all these cool events.”
Aidan Knowles, a 19-year-old journalism sophomore from 
Dublin, pointed out that Greek life isn’t exactly familiar or nor -
mal to an international student. 
“We don’t have them back in Ireland,” he said. “I find them 
a bit strange. They are kind of a strange cultural thing that I don’t really understand.”
“I think they are cool and stuff, but I don’t like the air of 
exclusivity they seem to have around them,” he said. “That’s sort of unusual.”Seeing the Greek life through international points-of-view
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
Need 4 students for 4 bedroom, 4 bath, fully 
furnished Condo $350 per month per student, includes utilities at Univ Terrace West 3800 SW 20th Ave 352-586-6468. Requires 1 year lease starting Aug 15th.   2-23-12-12-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Only $1149! Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-28-12-36-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2bed/1bath Sun Key units starting at $550
2bed/1.5bath Sun Harbor Townhouse
starting at $575
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2BR/1BA close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA great house. 
Fireplace, wash/dry provided, dishwasher, wood floors, fenced. Pets OK. 7 min bike to campus. $1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342. Gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-10-12-24-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    2-29-12-35-2
1 BED/1 BATH. Walk to Shands/UF.
Great kitchen and bath with w/d, disposal, dishwasher. Overlooks creek and trees. Small pet ok. $535+ deposit. 352-371-9520, 352-317-2642    2-14-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    2-15-12-20-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-10-12-19-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   2-9-12-10-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   2-29-11-27-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE
Prestigious Bivens Arm. 5BR house, Pool, & Dock. Bike or walk to Shands & UF. Serious grad students preferred. $2500/mo. Call 619-857-9903    2-22-12-20-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #3. Please call 352-371-3473 leave message.       2-22-12-20-2
Trend’s Student House of the Month!
2710 NW 2nd Ave
Huge 2/2 with a Den and Fireplace!
Walking Distance to Law School
Biking Distance to UF
Text “Trend” to 313131 for More Details
Trend4Rent.com
2-24-20-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor Townhouses $525
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
1bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $475!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7210 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    2-15-12-10-2
3 Bed House $795/mo available now & 
Aug. Central AC, wooden floors, w/d hook-ups, and a vintage style walk-ing distance to campus and downtown. University Ave & NW 8th st area. By Leo 706 Call now! 352-226-3535, 813-347-9379    
2-15-12-10-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
2-23-12-15-2
4/2 apartment 1740 NW 3rd PL Now lea-
seing for Fall- Early signing discount $275/room if you have 4 people and sign by 2/29 No Pets 1 year leases 352-231-3002www.hodgeprop.com    2-17-12-11-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
               ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100               ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500               ●/3 house 3514 nw 7 pl $1500               ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15002-14-12-5-23BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available Feb 1st.REDUCED to $900/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183   2-29-12-15-2
ONE Block to UF-Available 8/1/2012-2/2.5 
bath townhouse,w,d,dishwsh, guaranteed parking, wood floors VERY cute-1017 SW 1st Avenue www.forrentgainesville.com or 514-4915. Only 3 units remain!!!    3-14-12-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Martine 352-682-9126 or email mjan-grand@gmail.com or mangrand@ufl.edu.Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 2-13-11-30-4
Share a 4BR, 2BA house. LR, FR, kitchen, 
off street park. NW 34th St/NW 39th Ave Furn BR with bed,dresser room for desk. Pref. graduate or prof 6 mo. min. lease. $400 month util. incl. 352-374-7930.    2-14-5-42 rooms available in 4br/2ba for $300/month + 1/4 utilities. close to campus and available march 1. all cable channels and internet at house. male or female. call matt at 352-256-3492    2-17-7-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
CONDO FOR SALE - SPARROW
3BR/2.5BA, 2-story. Approximately 1700 sq. ft., completely renovated. $65,000. Please call Drew 316-4465   2-10-12-20-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
We Buy Cell Phones & other Electronics 
(iPads,iPods,Gaming Systems,Laptops.)Working or Not ! We Unlock & Repair PhonesTechmodo 6450 SW Archer RD(352)872-5881                 2-29-18-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
97 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-1201 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $699902 TOYOTA CAMRY $699904 CHEVY ASTRO $6999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
04 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $799902 HONDA ODYSSEY $799901 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,99906 SATURN ION $11,99907 FORD MUSTANG $12,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
We buy unwanted vehicles with or without 
title any condition,make,year or model we pay up to $20,000 and offer free towing call 813-516-0847    2-28-20-12
97 Honda Civic EX $2900 obo
203K mi, White, Sunroof, 5spd, 2 owners, tinted windows, new tiresjaferrer@ufl.edu or 850-228-1797    2-9-12-7-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  2-16-12-8-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
 A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
●●● FEMALE SMOKERS! ●●●
Do you want to quit smoking? Female
smokers needed to participate in a smokingcessation study. You may be compensated.Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com2-20-20-14
F/T legal admin assistant for busy law firm. 
Excellent writing, problem solving and people skills. Organized and dependable. Spanish speaking a plus. Pay DOE. Call (352) 371-4000.    2-9-12-10-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
Now hiring servers, cooks, drivers & pizza 
makers. Serious workers only. Apply in per-son 5 SE 2nd Ave.   2-14-12-10-14
Looking for students!
Cat furniture manufacturer needs self-moti-vated individuals to upholster and assemble cat towers. No experience needed. Starting pay is $8.00/hr. Apply in person at 1847 S. Main St or send resume to hcarboni1@gmail.com   2-10-12-8-14
Bench Scientist Position. Research with 
ELISAs and antibody production. Familiarity with ELISAs and immunology desired. Should have a Bachelor's degree in science field. Please send resume to info@elisa-tek.com   2-20-12-14-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14Love children and the outdoors? Timber 
Ridge Camp, a children's overnight summer camp located in the Shenandoah Mountains of West Virginia, is seeking both males and females for a variety of positions including Land Sports, Water Sports (WSI, Lifeguards), Canoeing, Rope Course, Tennis and Much More! Spend the summer outdoors doing things you love! Competitive Salaries, Room & Board, and travel provided. Apply online at www.trcamps.com or call 800-258-2267   2-15-9-14
Part Time Webmaster Wanted
Online company selling Vacuum Cleaners/Sewing Machine Parts and supplies ect. looking for part time web master to man-age and promote our e-commerce web site. Please send resume, references and salary requirements to Marty@vacsewcenter.com   2-10-12-5-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa- tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or smoke-clinic@gmail.com for further details   2-17-12-10-14
Sales Asst/Customer Svc Rep 
Apply in person at
Tomlinson Motor Company, 3580 N Main St$10/hr, part time 15-20 hrs/wk - flexible.   2-14-12-5-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring 
Bartenders/Deli Help. No exp necessary. Must have reliable transportation and some daytime availability. Accepting apps Monday 2/8 - Saturday 2/11. 9:00am-11am only.   2-10-12-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.comPrivate Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery NeedsBonded and Insured 352-339-5158    4-4-12-53-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   2-15-12-25-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Best religion? NO religion!
Get to know your Creator.See why the Bible is unique.Your creator's love for you.You Tube: "Eric Ludy - The Gospel" (11:27)   2-9-12-10-18
THE LINGERIE COMPANY
FREE EROTIC DANCE CLASS
This Thursday ONLY - 7p.m.
Oaks Mall Paza. Call for details 335-48142-9-3-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Florida junior Austin Maddox, who 
hit just .280 as a sophomore, said he is trying to look past last year’s struggles at the plate. See story, page 18.  Will receives honor
Gators women’s tennis player Allie Will was named the SEC Women’s Tennis Player of the Week on Wednesday. She is 7-0 in singles play this season.Gators in the NFL
Former Florida football players Jaye Howard, Jeff Demps and Chris Rainey have been invited to participate in the NFL Combine being held Feb. 22-28 in Indianapolis. Demps is expected to decline the invitation.JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
LEXINGTON, Ky. — Florida 
coach Billy Donovan warned 
his team before Tuesday night’s 20-point loss that poor shots and quick possessions would allow Kentucky to run wild in transition.
Once those mistakes began 
to pile up early in the first half at Rupp Arena, it usually took the Wildcats’ 6-foot-7 freshman Mi-chael Kidd-Gilchrist just two steps from the 3-point line to hammer home Donovan’s point.
“I tell you what, when he gets 
the ball in the open court, he takes two strides; he’s about NBA line in two strides,” Kentucky coach John Calipari said. “He’s laying it in through traffic, tucking the ball. He’s pretty good.”
Kidd-Gilchrist, a forward, led 
the No. 1 Wildcats in transition with six of his 13 points coming off fast-break finishes in the opening half. Florida allowed a season-high tying 16 fast-break points — the most it has given up since Dec. 2 at second-ranked Syracuse — fed mostly by eight first-half turn-overs.
The Gators also missed 20 of 30 
shots to start the game, giving the Wildcats ample opportunities to flip the court.  
“We didn’t shoot it well, but I 
also thought some of our turnovers there in the stretch, some of their transition hurt us,” Donovan said.
Kentucky blocked six shots, in-
cluding four by forward Anthony Davis, which forced Florida to take increasingly difficult attempts in the face of the Wildcats’ lengthy frontcourt. 
Junior guard Kenny Boynton 
said the Gators’ struggles to find quality looks drained the team’s energy on defense, causing break-downs in player assignments once Kidd-Gilchrist and Co. got into the open court.
“The main thing was transition 
and offensive rebounding,” Boyn-ton said. “We came down some plays and they’d get a block and they were out in transition. They were getting easy points. That kind of deflated us overall as a team.”
Florida guard Brad Beal, who 
finished with 14 points on 5-for-15 shooting, guarded Kidd-Gilchrist for much of the game but had a hard time containing the much taller forward. Using his four-inch height advantage, Kidd-Gilchrist hauled in a game-high 13 re-bounds, including four on the of-fensive glass.
Kentucky finished with a 38-31 
edge on the boards.
“Whenever we don’t shoot 
the ball well, we have to defend and rebound,” Beal said. “Our re-bounding was also terrible because they were getting a lot of offensive rebounds … We weren’t playing the way Florida usually plays.”
While Boynton and Beal said 
the Gators grew increasingly stag-nant on offense throughout the night and did a bad job of moving without the ball, they were able to curtail the Wildcats’ frenetic pace after halftime.
In the final 20 minutes, Ken-
tucky was only able to get behind Florida’s defense for four points,  with Kidd-Gilchrist held scoreless in transition. 
“We always tell our guys, if 
he’s ahead of you, you must give him the ball,” Calipari said. “If you don’t, you’ll come out of the game, because he’s always going to make something good happen.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.
AP Photo
Kentucky forward Michael Kidd-Gilchrist finished with six of his 13 
points in transition in Tuesday’s game against Florida. 
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Brittany Shine thrives with 
time.
She has no problem scor -
ing when playing significant 
minutes, but her shorter stints yield unwanted results.
When logging 10-plus min-
utes, Shine shoots at a 42.4 percent clip, scoring 7.1 points per game. Her numbers drop to 20 percent and 1.2 points in 13 games with single-digit minutes this season.
In Florida’s 84-55 win 
against Ole Miss last Sunday, Shine scored 14 points on 5-of-7 shooting in 10 minutes of playing time.
“I’ve got a long way to 
go, so I can’t be complacent,” Shine said. “My defense has to be better … (I need to be) do-ing stuff other people aren’t doing so I stand out more.”
Shine will aim to build on 
arguably her most impres-sive performance of the sea-son in tonight’s game against Auburn at 7 in the O’Connell Center. 
While Shine may seem un-
derplayed on paper, the key to increased playing time is an improved effort without the ball in her hands.
Senior center Azania Stew-
art said Shine provides the Gators with a spark when she enters games, citing the sophomore guard’s ability to take advantage of limited op-portunities.
But Stewart also said Shine 
has some work to do in order to become a more complete player.
“She’s shooting great, she’s 
been getting extra shots up in [the gym],” Stewart said. “A better effort on the defensive end will help her stay on the floor for longer.”Stewart also praised 
Shine’s running in the transi-tion game. 
Redshirt senior forward 
Ndidi Madu said she believes Shine’s confidence has grown this season.
“When she got out there 
and she started hitting threes (against Ole Miss), she started feeling good about herself,” Madu said. “That’s what she needs to have. Bring that same mentality and mindset to ev-ery game and be aggressive.”
Shine’s best attribute is 
shooting, and the Gators have 
tried to take 
advan-tage of that strength.
One po-
tential use for a scorer like Shine would be to 
substitute her into a game to jumpstart a lagging offense. However, coach Amanda But-ler says that strategy conflicts with her coaching philosophy.
“Very rarely are we putting 
anyone in the game and go-ing, ‘Hey, go in there and hit us a shot,’” Butler said. “We’re sending you in going, ‘Get a stop, increase tempo, bring some energy.’”
If Shine wants to become 
a regular fixture in Florida’s lineup, she will need to achieve consistency in all aspects of the game.
Ultimately, Butler said that 
Shine working to earn more minutes is an ongoing pro-cess. 
“Shine is still a young 
player who is learning and her game is evolving,” Butler said. “She’s continually working and that’s all we can ask her to do.”
Contact Joe Morgan at 
joemorgan@alligator.org.UF looking for more 
than scoring from sophomore Shinewomen’s bAsketbAll ‘Cats fast break quickly sunk Gators
shine
18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
Alligator File Photo
After hitting .333 and leading the team in home runs as a freshman, Florida first base-
man and relief pitcher Austin Maddox slumped to hit .280 as a sophomore. 
BASEBALL
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Austin Maddox is hoping his sopho-
more slump doesn’t follow him into his ju-
nior year.
After batting .333 and leading the team 
in home runs (17) and RBI (72) as a fresh-man two seasons ago, Maddox struggled to find his swing last year. 
The 6-foot-3, 235-pound junior hit just 
.280 last season — the lowest mark by any of the Gators’ everyday players — while knocking just six home runs and reaching base at a .327 clip, which was also the worst among regular starters.
“You can’t make excuses for yourself,” 
Maddox said. “I don’t think it was the [new bats introduced last season]; I think I just had a rough year. It happens to everyone, and I’m looking forward to this year and moving past it.”
In the offseason, Maddox said he worked 
heavily on his swing to help him get over last year’s hump. He spent a lot of time during the off months with assistant coach Craig Bell, who is entering his fifth season at Florida. Bell helped Maddox work on stay-ing back through his swing and not drifting forward in the batter’s box.
Most importantly, though, Maddox has 
worked on his patience at the plate — a facet of the game that hindered his produc-tion at times last season. After striking out 42 times as a freshman, he struck out 33 times last year, which was fourth most on the team.
While he improved his strikeout rate 
from 15 percent in 2010 to 12.6 percent last season, Maddox said he would still chase too many pitches out of the strike zone, par-ticularly early in at-bats.
“I’ve been working on being a little bit 
more patient early in the count,” Maddox said. “It’s really hard; it’s kind of who I am, it’s what’s built into me. I’m aggressive, and that’s what I am, but I’m making ad-justments and it’s working out.”
Maddox’s aggressiveness at the plate 
may have negatively affected his offensive numbers last year, but that same attribute  helped him on the mound. As a freshman, Maddox played exclusively in the field, but entering last season, Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan used Maddox out of the bullpen, too.
The move paid off. Maddox was one of 
the Gators’ most reliable relievers, making 21 appearances and surrendering just two earned runs while holding opponents to a .198 batting average.
Although his numbers on the mound 
were more impressive than those at the plate, the righty not only spent time in the offseason adjusting his swing mechanics, but he worked on fine-tuning one of his pitches, too. Fellow reliever Steven Rodri-guez helped Maddox tweak his slider, and now Maddox said he is locating the pitch much more effectively and feels comfort-able throwing it in any situation.
That, in turn, should make O’Sullivan 
that much more at ease with the back end of the Gators’ bullpen. While O’Sullivan said he feels good with Maddox, Rodriguez and Greg Larson late in games, Florida’s skip-per is unsure if the team will go into the season with one set closer.
That doesn’t matter to Maddox, though.“I’m going to get on the mound and give 
it my best effort,” Maddox said. “I’m going to go right at you; I’m aggressive. I guess I just have the closer mentality already built into me.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org. Maddox pushing past ‘11
“I just had a rough year. It hap-
pens to everyone, and I’m looking 
forward to this year and moving 
past it.”
Austin Maddox
UF first baseman/relief pitcherMATT:  The Gators completed a full-
on walk of shame last night, arriv-
ing back in Gainesville with their 
scaly tails tucked neatly between their legs following a 20-point shellacking in Lexing-ton, Ky.
On the surface, there wasn’t much posi-
tive to draw from the incredibly embarrass-ing loss that saw star point guard Erving Walker go scoreless for the first time since 2008. But don’t fret about Big Blue Nation’s dominance of Gator Nation. Don’t worry about seeing freshman phenom Brad Beal on the wrong end of SportsCenter Top 10 dunk. And definitely don’t frown about Florida’s cold shooting — even Jordan’s Bulls had an off night every now and again.
Brighter days are ahead, and Kentucky has 
to come to the O’Dome on March 4 to close out the regular season. Plus, there’s one more thing that’s certain to pique your Florida bas-ketball interest going forward: This year’s team is miles ahead of the one that advanced to the Elite Eight a season ago.
GREG: Tuesday’s loss may not be cause 
for concern, but don’t be so quick to say this year’s team is better than last. 
The 2010-11 Gators will ultimately be 
remembered as an Elite Eight loser, but on two separate occasions they were one bucket away from advancing to an extremely win-nable Final Four. 
Last year’s team blended talent and experi-
ence, and it showed in the results. The senior leadership of Vernon Macklin, Alex Tyus and especially Chan-dler Parsons made that team mentally tough, and by the end of the year they were pre-pared to handle anything. 
UF’s 2010-11 
team finished 9-2 in true road games, show-ing none of the discomfort and unsteadiness that has this year’s group 2-5 in those situa-tions. 
MATT: While several of your points are 
salient, they’re also contradictory. 
Saying Parsons, Macklin and Tyus were 
prepared to handle anything is a bit of a stretch when you consider they couldn’t close out an overmatched Butler team. Florida ad-vanced to the Elite Eight last season, but that achievement alone can’t be used as the sole barometer of success. 
Last year’s Gators were smoked early on 
by Ohio State at home. This year’s team fared much better against a Buckeyes squad that’s arguably improved over a year ago, and that game was on the road. UF also lost games against UCF and Jacksonville in 2010-11.
Jacksonville for crying out loud!The talent suiting up in those fancy new 
jerseys is clearly superior, and the only area in which the Gators are currently lacking is development of a killer instinct. But the terri-ble losses and the inability to put away an in-ferior foe when it mattered most tell me that this year’s team has a much higher ceil-ing.
GREG: Last 
year’s team came together as the season went on, and the group that 
played in March was hardly the same team that fell to Jacksonville and UCF. 
If the 2011-12 group comes together in the 
same way it’ll have a shot at outpacing last year’s team, but it’s not there yet. 
UF lost Vernon Macklin and Alex Tyus in 
the low post and added only Walter Pitch-ford. Is that really an improvement? 
Florida also lost the Southeastern Confer -
ence Player of the Year in Parsons and re-placed him with Brad Beal. 
For all his talent, Beal is a worse rebounder 
shooting a lower percentage with none of the point guard skills that have Parsons playing 24 minutes per night as an NBA rookie. 
How are the Gators better off?
MATT: You made my point for me, Greg. 
Thanks buddy.
This year’s Gators still have plenty of 
room for improvement, you’re right on that. 
And while Florida lost Tyus and Macklin, it gained a full-time role from sophomore Pat-ric Young, who has been an absolute force when healthy and properly conditioned. 
Beal doesn’t do all the things Parsons did 
from the three spot, but neither did Parsons 20-some games into his first season as a Gator. Beal is further along than any freshman in the country not wearing blue and white, and he’s only getting better.
This incarnation of Florida also hasn’t had 
the systemic failures that caused losses to At-lantic Sun and Conference USA opponents last year, and it ranks third in the country in offensive efficiency — 11 spots higher than last year’s team. 
Last night’s loss against Kentucky will 
only serve as a launching pad for improve-ment, and with this team’s ability to shoot the ball from range, a run to the Final Four is still completely in play. 
GREG: Sure, this year’s team has the 
potential to ride hot shooting all the way to New Orleans, but it could just as easily go cold from outside and be knocked out on the tournament’s opening weekend. 
The Gators have taken 44.1 percent of 
their shots this season from three, ranking sixth in the nation and more than 12 percent-age points higher than last year’s team. 
No Final Four team in the last nine years 
— since Kenpom.com started tracking these things — has taken more than 42.1 percent of their attempts from beyond the arc. On top of that, 23 of the last 36 Final Four teams were at 33 percent or lower. 
That’s why this year’s team is built to im-
press and last year’s team is built to win. 
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org 
and Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org. Vote for the winner online at alligatorSports.org  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 19
THE RALLY
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmatts
Greg Luca
twitter: @greglucaWhich UF basketball team is better — 2010-11 or 2011-12?JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
A reckless hack with the stick 
is now carrying greater conse-
quences than ever before.
The Gators, along with every 
other women’s lacrosse program, are facing the challenge of learn-ing a new style of play due to an offseason rules change that re-quires any player who receives a yellow card to leave the game for two minutes without being replaced.
“It’s a work in progress,” 
Gators coach Amanda O’Leary said. “This is game-changing.”
The new rule forces the team 
playing down a player to do so in the third of the field the ball is in, whereas under the previous rule the team could still keep seven players in the active third of the field while having just three play-ers outside of that third.
O’Leary, who serves on the 
NCAA Rules Committee, said the rule was modified to put more “bite” into yellow cards.
“They wanted yellow cards to 
mean something and that there were going to be ramifications and repercussions to people get-ting yellow cards,” O’Leary said. 
For the offense, O’Leary said 
the biggest challenge when play-ing a player down is to keep the ball moving, while the biggest challenge on defense is to not get worn out during the course of the two-minute penalty.O’Leary stressed that the most 
important thing a team can do while playing a player up is to constantly be looking for the open attacker. 
Florida was able to take ad-
vantage of a one-woman advan-tage twice in its 17-2 exhibition win against England on Jan. 26.
One of the goals came when 
England’s Emily Gray got a yel-low card at the 14:35 mark for hit-ting freshman midfielder Nicole Graziano in the head. Less than two minutes later, Kitty Cullen found freshman midfielder Nora Barry unguarded right outside the center of the crease, where Barry put it past the goalkeeper for 
her second score of the game.
“It was 
definitely 
because we were a man up that that goal happened,” Barry said. “Kitty knew that I was the open player and she knew where I was right when she got the ball. It was definitely a result of our coaches preparing us for that situation and my teammates being pre-pared.”
By penalizing teams that com-
mit hard fouls, the changes to the rule will decrease injury risk in a sport where players do not wear helmets, yet sticks are swung wildly and used as a means of checking.
“It will hopefully decrease the 
amount of concussions coming out of lacrosse,” Graziano said.
Cullen believes that players 
will be more cautious when de-fending for fear of putting their team in a shorthanded situation.
“Before, people would just 
check you as hard as they could because there was no disadvan-tage,” Cullen said. “But now, I think people will be a lot more cautious and everyone will be a lot safer.”20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2012
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman midfielder Nora Barry (left) scored a goal in an exhibition game against England on 
Jan. 26 shortly after English defender Emily Gray picked up a yellow card. 
Rule change mandates tougher penalty for yellow cards
UF Lacrosse