VOLUME 106 ISSUE 104 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Farmers market comes to Reitz Union North Lawn
About 20 vendors sold their products Friday, pg 5.  
Faces in the Race
Candidates in SG election share their stories, pg 8. Monday Feature
About 600 gather annually to reenact the Battle 
of Olustee, pg. 10-11. 
No. 1 UF 
dropped a heated 
series ﬁ  nale against 
Cal State Fullerton 
on Sunday. 
See story, page 17. 
66/47
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 13CROSSWORD  15
SPORTS 17 Alex M. Sanchez / Alligator
  May the Beats Be With You
  Business freshman Juan Lopez, 18, and sports management senior Joey Bellando, 22, DJ on Turlington Plaza on Friday 
afternoon. The two, dressed in suits with Clone Trooper masks, were promoting Lazerdisk Party Sex, an electronic mu-sic collaboration between DJs Pres and ZJ, for an upcoming show at the Vault Night Club on Feb. 28. 
  TYLER JETT
  Alligator Staff Writer
  Gainesville Police arrested two homeless 
men Saturday after a ﬁ  ght involving a box cut-
ter and a lawn mower blade.
  Phillip W. Hereford, 54, and Cassino G. 
Todd, 33, were both charged with aggravated battery, and they told authorities they stay at the St. Francis House homeless shelter.
  The ﬁ  ght took place at about 4:30 p.m. at 
100 SE 10th St. near the Tent City camp.
  A GPD arrest report gave this account:  While arguing with Todd, Hereford picked 
up a lawn mower blade. One witness said 
Hereford chucked it; Todd himself said Hereford swung it at him like a sword.
  Either way, the blade cut 
Todd’s left hand, and he needed stitches.
  Two bystanders said they 
broke up the ﬁ  ght, giving Hereford and Todd plenty of time to calm down and walk 
away. Instead, Todd grabbed a box cutter.
  He sliced the left side of Hereford’s face, 
leaving a seven-inch long cut running from his mouth to his ear.
  Paramedics took both men to the hospital, 
and they were booked at Alachua County Jail about two hours later. They were held there in lieu of a $25,000 bond Saturday night.     Men arrested 
after ﬁ  ghting with box cutter,   blade from lawn mowerSG ELECTION
  SAMANTHA SHAVELL
 Alligator Writer
  UF football coach Will Muschamp publicly endorsed the 
Students Party vice presidential candidate last week for the up-
coming Student Government elections.
  Gators fullback Jesse Schmitt is the Students Party vice pres-
idential candidate for Tuesday’s and Wednesday’s elections.
  Schmitt walked onto the football team last year.  “I wanted to join his teammates in endorsing Jesse as VP for 
Student Government,” Muschamp wrote in a letter to UF stu-dents. “I know that his leadership and drive 
for excellence will make him successful and in turn make campus a better place for every student.”
  As far as Schmitt knows, this is the ﬁ  rst 
time a coach has endorsed a student. He said he would assume that when an athlete runs, the coach would endorse the candidate.
  Schmitt said the last student athlete to 
be elected as an executive ofﬁ  cer was Terry 
Jackson, who was elected in 1998 as Student Body vice presi-dent.
  Two of Schmitt’s teammates, linebacker Graham Stewart 
and running back Trey Burton, appeared in a Students Party video campaign ad on Thursday . The video showed Stewart tackling Schmitt and Burton staring at a cat. It had about 4,400 views as of press time.
  The football team will also campaign on campus with the 
Students Party , Schmitt said.  
  He said he is glad to have the team behind him.  “They’re all incredible compliments that Muschamp gave,” 
he said. “I hope I can do the football team proud.”  Muschamp endorses Student Government VP candidate
Hereford
  ADRIANNA PAIDAS
 Alligator Writer
  A curvy road is causing cars to beat 
up on a Gainesville beanbag business.
  On Feb. 11, a vehicle driving down 
Northwest Eighth Avenue missed a curve in the road and slammed into 
Corda-Roy’s Originals. This is the sixth time a vehicle has driven onto the busi-ness’s property during the past decade, according to Gainesville Police Depart-ment reports.
  The owner of Corda-Roy’s Originals, which is located on the corner of North-west Eighth Avenue and West Newber-ry Road, is asking the city to add blink-ing lights or other markers on the road to warn drivers of the turn, especially because all the accidents have happened in the dark.
  Previous accidents have all involved 
drivers who were in their 20s, and each  Local business plagued by car crashes
City could look into issue
SEE CRASHES, PAGE 4Muschamp
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 104 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Rachel Rowan, Nika Zecevic
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett,   
  David Williams
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 A
dvertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
THUNDER
STORMS
76/49THUNDER
STORMS
77/57RAIN
72/60CLOUDY
74/52PARTLY
CLOUDY
66/47
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Impact Autism @ UF general 
meeting
Today, 4 p.m.HPNP Bulding, Room 1101At the second general meeting of the year, Dr. Devine will speak about the neurological basis of ASD and his research with self-injurious behaviors. For more information, visit the Facebook group, Impact Autism @ UF.
Gambler’s Anonymous meeting
Mondays and Wednesdays, 7 p.m.The meetings are held locally twice a week. For more infor -
mation, call 1-800-397-9834.
Minority Pre-V eterinary Students 
meetingToday, 7:30 p.m.Rinker Hall, Room 120This organization tries to en-courage, retain and empower students pursuing a career in veterinary medicine. This week’s speaker will be Dr. Emerson from the UF Small Animal Hospital.
The Improvised Shakespeare 
Company free performanceMonday, 8 p.m.Reitz Union, Rion Ballroom BThe Improvised Shakespeare Company , an acclaimed Chicago improv troupe, has made its way to UF. This free show, presented by Theatre Strike Force, will feature fully improvised play in Elizabethan style.Compete with your dog in the first 5K-9 Olympics. Owners of the winners of the longest fetch, highest jump and most time standing on hind legs will be rewarded with awesome prizes, including cruises, gym memberships and a waived University Commons 5K-9 admission. More event details can be found at facebook.com/uc5k9 .
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Community Health Summit: 
Health Disparities in North 
Florida’s Underserved Communities
Tuesday, 5:10 p.m.McCarty Hall C, Room 100A panel of speakers will be covering topics including rural and urban health dis-parities, cultural competence when serving communities and the crucial role that health policy plays when addressing health disparities.
Chamber Ensemble of the 
Shanghai Chinese OrchestraPhillips Center for the Performing ArtsTuesday, 7:30 p.m.The first large-scale modern orchestra of traditional instru-ments in China will perform Tuesday . Represented by a 20-piece chamber ensemble, the members of Shanghai Chinese Orchestra perform string- and wind-instrumental pieces, Cantonese music and plucked-string ainstrumental ensembles. Student tickets are $12. Visit performingarts.ufl.edu for more information.
5K-9 Olympics
Wednesday, 2 p.m.Reitz Union North Lawn
FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
JENNA LYONS and
DAVID A. MURPHY
Alligator Contributing Writers
About 2,500 people stood sol-
emnly in the O’Connell Center Sat-
urday night listening to the Negro National Anthem, “Lift Every Voice and Sing.”
A few moments later, the same 
crowd cheered on competing fra-ternities and sororities at the largest student-run invitational step show on the East Coast.
UF’s Black Student Union held 
the 23rd annual Florida Invitational Step Show.
The event was hosted by rapper 
and beatboxer Doug E. Fresh.
Executive Director Shaniqua 
Thompson of FISS estimated the event cost about $80,000.
All nine National Pan-Hellenic 
Council sororities and fraternities competed for the title.
Delta Sigma Theta snagged first 
place for the sororities with a mili-tary-themed routine, and a zombie-themed routine earned Iota Phi The-ta first place of the fraternities. 
The fraternity’s brothers handed 
out 3-D glasses, blindfolded them-selves during the routine and used a stepper as a jump rope.
Twenty-year-old electrical and 
computer engineering sophomore Diamond Overstreet said Iota Phi Theta was most engaging, which worked in the fraternity’s favor.
Le’Asia Lundy, director of UF’s 
Black History Month committee, said people anticipate the show be-cause of its quality.
“For 23 years, FISS has amazed 
the crowd with talented teams and will continue for many years to come,” she said.
Each team had a 15-minute time 
limit, and routines incorporated “new school” and “old school” steps. 
This coordinated with the theme 
of the night, “Back to the Basics.”
Feb. 21, 1969: Students from the Division of Bio-
logical Sciences have the largest percentage of A 
grades with 46.67 percent, according to grade dis-tributions from the UF Office of Academic Services. Engineering was No. 2 with 42.8 percent. The largest number of low grades — D’s and E’s — were given in the College of Physical Education.
Feb. 22, 1973: A women’s co-op dorm is planned 
to open for the summer. Mallory Hall is being con-sidered as the location, said Interhall President Gary Marlin. The co-op, where residents collaborate as jan-itors and resident assistants, will charge $80 a quarter per room.
Feb. 24, 1983: Members of the Southern Associa-
tion of Colleges and Schools accreditation committee said bad course advice stalls graduation. UF Aca-demic Affairs Vice President Robert Bryan said one way to ease the crunch of inadequate advising is to hire retired professors part-time during “peak loads of pre-registration, registration and drop/add,” when the advising need is the greatest.
Feb. 22, 1986: Beach Party candidates become 
UF’s new Student Body president and vice president. Pamela Bingham and Russ Bergin got the support of 4,887 students. Bigham is UF’s first black Student Body president.
Feb. 21, 1989: UF is gaining a reputation for sculp-
tures resembling french fries, onion rings and a pota-to around campus. The structures destroy a beautiful view of Century Tower and trivialize the grand per -
spective, said UF Provost Robert Bryan. Last month, Miami artist John Henry put up “Alachua,” known as the “french fries.” The sculpture was constructed as part of a 1979 state law that requires up to half of 1 percent of the cost of all state buildings be displayed as art in a public place.
— RAVEN PRITCHETT David Carr / Alligator
Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc. performs at the 23rd annual Florida 
Invitational Step Show at the O’Connell Center on Saturday night.
BSU hosts 23rd annual step show
Doug E. Fresh hosted event
“For 23 years, FISS has 
amazed the crowd with       tal-
ented teams and will continue 
for many years to come.”
Le’Asia Lundy
Black History Month committee direc-
tor� THE MARKET IS OPEN TUESDAY 
THROUGH SUNDAY.
KELSEY GRENTZER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Surrounded by a small mountain of VHS 
tapes, Yakitah Jones beckoned for passersby to 
try some boiled treats.
“I’ve been told that my peanuts are addic-
tive,” she told a woman, offering her one to try.
Jones was one of 157 vendors at the grand 
opening of Den & Ken’s Indoor and Outdoor Flea Market on Saturday.
The flea market opened its doors on Dec. 
1, but Saturday’s grand opening served as an official welcoming to the community, said Dennis Murray , the vice president of the flea market. About 8,000 people attended.
Erin Baum, a 33-year-old Gainesville 
resident, wandered around the market near stands that sold everything from handbags to hardware.
“You’ve got a little variety of everything 
and everybody,” she said.
She munched on a boiled peanut from 
Jones’ stand and chatted with Jones.
“Everybody’s been pretty friendly, nice 
and helpful,” Baum said. “Not bad for first impressions.”Linda Greene, 62, sold African- and Carib-
bean-themed T-shirts and accessories, includ-ing a book called “Sayings and Psalms of Bob Marley.”“My stuff is authentic,” Greene said, point-
ing to carved wooden masks she was selling. “Those heads are not carved in Indonesia. They’re made in Africa.”Patrick Lynn, a 26-year-old UF medical stu-
dent, said he likes the market because it pro-vides more of a community feeling.
“It feels like it’s an individual selling, rather 
than a big company,” he said.
At noon, a crowd in front of the building 
counted to three before Gainesville Mayor Craig Lowe, alongside District 1 City Com-missioner Scherwin Henry and former Ala-chua County Commissioner Rodney Long, cut a gold ribbon in the doorway of the building, symbolizing the official opening.
“This is going to be a great asset for our 
community,” Lowe said in a speech.
He said the market represents a step in 
the right direction for businesses in East Gainesville.
The flea market is open Tuesday through 
Sunday . About 100 people a day typically visit the market on weekdays, and between 1,000 and 3,000 people a day visit on weekends, Murray said.
He said the market has grown exponen-
tially since its initial opening.
The market started with about eight ven-
dors and is now at capacity with a waiting list of between 40 and 80 vendors, he said.
Murray said he and his partners hope to 
open another flea market on the west side of the city.
“This is just the beginning,” he said. “We 
plan on doing a lot more here for the people.”4, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
Regina Lynn, 45, owner of Simply Lynn’s Treats, and her aunt Charlotte Freetine, 65, 
talk with Mayor Craig Lowe at the opening day of Den and Ken’s Indoor and Outdoor Flea Market on Saturday afternoon.
About 8,000 attend East Gainesville flea market grand opening
Sharp curve, darkness at intersection factors in six accidents
was charged with reckless or careless driv-
ing. Two drivers were also charged with driving under the influence. The previous accidents happened late at night or early in the morning, according to police reports.
As cars go west on Northwest Eighth 
Avenue, the road curves sharply south as it approaches West Newberry Road. If driv-ers keep going straight, the beanbag shop is dead ahead, said Byron Young, owner of the store.
“The bottom line here is safety for the people inside the building and safety for the drivers,” Young said.
The most recent accident was a hit-and-
run on Feb.11. Young came into work that day to find a chipped wall and destroyed bushes.
If the car had slammed harder into the 
wall, it would have broken into the room where Young stores $20,000 worth of bean-bag covers.
“The common denominator here is dark-
ness,” Young said. “I don’t feel comfortable having anyone here the minute it gets dark because who knows what will happen.”There are four yellow signs with black ar-
rows along Northwest Eighth Avenue right before the curve. Young said no one can see those signs at night.  
In an email to City Commissioner Todd 
Chase, Young asked the city to fix the prob-lem and add something more visible along the road. Young said he is waiting for a re-sponse.
“Thank God this hasn’t happened during 
the day,” said Andrea Smith, an employee at the store. “Obviously, I would hear if a car was about to crash into us, but I’m not sure if I would have time to jump over my desk and get out of the way.”
City Commissioner Jeanna Mastrodicasa 
said the commission could look into the is-sue, but she believes the state, not the city, has control of adding road markers.
“We don’t design the roads, and we don’t 
control them,” she said.
CRASHES , from page 1
“I don’t feel comfortable having 
anyone here the minute it gets dark 
because who knows what will hap-
pen.”
Byron Young
owner MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Lauren Adamson / Alligator
Robin Stahr sets up her table for the farmers market on the North Lawn near the Reitz Union on 
Friday. Stahr’s business sells scones, jams, pickled vegetables, local honey and more.
� THE MARKET COULD RETURN 
AGAIN THIS SEMESTER IF IRHA GETS POSITIVE FEEDBACK.
MARISA ROSS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students flocked to the North Lawn 
on Friday afternoon for homemade 
food and locally made crafts at a farm-ers market.
About 20 vendors from Alachua 
County sold fresh produce, pastries and meat at the event hosted by UF’s Inter-Residence Hall Association. Homemade preserves, $10 orchids and free henna were also available.
IRHA partnered with the High 
Springs Farmers Market, the Office of Sustainability , Department of Housing, Recreational Sports and Gator Dining Services.
About 420 people were members 
of the “UF Farmers Market” Facebook event, but IRHA Farmers Market direc-tor and 19-year-old environmental sci-ence sophomore Laura McCann said she didn’t know how many people actually attended.
The farmers market could return 
several times each semester if students give positive feedback, said IRHA president and 20-year-old public rela-tions junior Severin Walstad.
UF’s Office of Sustainability will 
host the next farmers market, sched-uled for April 6.
It will feature about 40 vendors, 
Walstad said, and IRHA will help with the event. UF is recognizing April 6 as Earth Day because April 22 falls during exams.
Jackie Pedota, a 20-year-old wild-
life ecology and conservation junior, enjoyed the convenience of having the market on campus.
“I always wanted to go to the one in 
Bo Diddley , but it’s too far,” she said, referring to the Wednesday afternoon market in the downtown plaza. “I have class and no way of getting there.”
She said she plans to take advan-
tage of the next market.
Pedota purchased portobello mush-
rooms, oranges, carrots, green onions and jam for $19. She said she had never tried fresh jam and couldn’t resist once she tasted Graham Farm’s strawberry-mango flavor.
“The quality of the produce is so 
much better,” she said. “[The farmers] make ties with people, so they keep coming back.”IRHA hosts 20-vendor farmers market on North Lawn
CITY COMMISSION
CHRIS ALCANTARA
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents can start casting early ballots today 
for the Gainesville City Commission at-large 1 runoff elec-
tion.
Early voting will be open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. today 
through Friday and from noon to 4 p.m. Saturday and Sun-day. Registered voters can cast their ballots at the Supervisor of Elections County Administration Building at 12 SE First St., according to the Supervisor of Elections website.
Election day is Feb. 28.Lauren Poe, a former District 2 city commissioner, and 
Nathan Skop, a former commissioner on the Florida Public Service Commission, will compete for the seat.
Pam Carpenter, Alachua County supervisor of elections, 
said early voting in runoff elections has his-torically brought a 15 to 17 percent voter turnout.
In the April City Commission run-off, 
16.5 percent of voters registered in District 2 and District 3 cast ballots.
She hopes that percentage will be higher 
in this year’s runoff election.
“A lot of people seem to be engaged in 
the city elections issues right now,” she said. “So perhaps we will see a stronger turnout.”Carpenter said voters are required to bring a photo and 
signature identification in order to cast early or absentee bal-lots under Florida law.
Voters also need to have their addresses updated prior to 
early voting, which can be done by contacting the Supervisor of Elections office, she said.
Frank Plageman, 19-year-old political science sophomore, 
said students should use the early voting period if they can’t vote on election day.
Plageman said he knew students who planned to vote in 
previous elections but didn’t because they did not have time.
“With a week of early voting, there really isn’t an excuse 
not to vote,” he said.Early voting for City Commission runoff election starts today
Carpenter
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialMONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Would you use inhalable caffeine?
103 TOTAL VOTES5% YES
95% NOFriday’s question: Are you going to New 
Orleans for Mardi Gras?
Every Breath You Take
Surveillance of Muslim 
students wrong
Do you ever wonder if Big Brother is watching you? 
Well, depending on your religious affiliation, he might be.
A new report from The Associated Press found that the 
New York City Police Department monitored Muslim student associations at colleges around the Northeast.
Paul Browne, spokesman for the NYPD, said that from 2006 
to 2007, the department monitored and collected publicly avail-able information from Muslim student websites and forums.
But the NYPD also partnered with the CIA to create a secret 
program that monitored the activities of Muslims from shop-ping to eating to worshiping. The police also had undercover officers at Muslim student associations in multiple colleges within city limits.
One officer went undercover on a whitewater rafting trip in 
April of 2008 with 18 Muslim students, some of whom were of-ficers of the MSA from City College in New York. In the report, the officer described everything from subjects of conversation to how many times they prayed each day.
According to the AP , undercover officers were placed in 
MSAs at colleges within the New York City limits. Another report from 2006 indicates that the NYPD’s Cyber Intelligence unit monitored the online activity of MSA students from Yale, Columbia, the University of Pennsylvania, Syracuse, New York University and the Newark and New Brunswick campuses of Rutgers, among many others.
When asked about the surveillance, Browne gave reporters 
a list of 12 people that were former members of MSAs who were arrested or convicted on terrorism charges.
Given the long list of colleges that were part of this moni-
toring program, one has to wonder whether the arrests of 12 people constitutes such a blatant violation of privacy.
People should not have to worry that joining a belief-based 
organization will put them on a “watch list.” If the mission statements of these organizations promoted violent behavior or ideas, then there might be probable cause to investigate their activities.
However, these MSAs are likely based on shared religious 
beliefs only. Now, students who hold any minority religious or political beliefs might be afraid to join groups with like-minded individuals for fear they will be monitored by authorities.
Yes, radical Islam does present a threat to the security of 
the United States. But the constant surveillance of anyone in-volved in Muslim organizations goes way beyond any rational attempt to keep us safe.
If anything, these actions make authorities look like they are 
actively seeking to discriminate against Muslims, giving radi-cals even more tools for recruitment.
We should all be able to peacefully assemble without the 
fear of being watched.Students Party VP candidate deserves vote
In my four years here at UF, I’ve gotten to see a lot of Student Government candidates come and go. The ritual is always the same. Some iteration of a Greek-
backed party runs against an eclectic group of students seeking to break “the system” and the way certain orga-nizations dominate student politics.
Though SG elections are annoying and usually point-
less, Alex Cornillie and Jesse Schmitt, this year’s candi-dates for Student Body president and vice president for the Students Party, have the best chance to win in the four years I’ve been here.
Both the executive tickets for the Unite and Students 
parties have student leaders who have achieved a lot, but I have to single out Jesse Schmitt, who represents the best candidate for Student Body VP in at least a de-cade, and I’ve known several of them personally.
Jesse founded Gators Humans vs Zombies, which 
grew until there were so many walking undead on cam-pus that I feared for my safety. It even led to the admin-istration writing a disaster preparedness plan for what to do in case of a zombie attack.
Schmitt is also a part of the Platoon Leaders Course 
and plans to join the armed forces after graduation as an officer in the Marine Corps. If that’s not enough for you, he stuffs backpacks with food to feed homeless children in Gainesville through a charity he runs.
Most people would rest on their laurels after achiev-
ing at that level. Not Jesse. He decided he had too much free time and tried out for the UF football team and got picked up as scout team running back.
He sacrifices his body so that Sharrif Floyd and Domi-
nique Easley can have some practice destroying some-body for the good of our university. He never quits, and he has more energy than anyone I’ve ever seen, as evidenced when he beat Chris Rainey at the push-up contest this summer with a count of more than 200.
The only experience I’ve had with any of the other candidates for SG is Unite Party presidential candidate Tj Villamil. Though I’ve been im-pressed with his commendable efforts to raise money for non-profits, I’ve been frustrated in my limited dealings with him while he served as SG treasurer for the past year.
I wanted to talk with Tj 
about a huge cut in food money that he proposed for all student organizations. Unfortunately, his staff told me he did not show up for appointments and I would prob-ably have no luck getting in touch with him. 
I had no problem meeting with the prior Student 
Body treasurer, and I was frustrated at Tj’s lack of avail-ability to talk with his constituents.
Though the winning ticket for this SG election won’t 
affect me much, I would be ecstatic if I could graduate knowing that our Student Body is being led by dynamic leaders who have a passion for people, The Gator Na-tion and student life in general.
You should vote for people you know will do a good 
job. With Jesse Schmitt, UF would finally be getting a leader it deserves. I can’t wait to see what he will do for the good of the university if you give him a chance as Student Body vice president.
This time, your vote really does matter. You’re not 
just throwing it away as usual in SG elections. The Stu-dents Party ticket has a legitimate shot at winning, and you can make that happen.
Go vote Feb. 21 and 22 for the zombie-killing Marine 
and football player Jesse Schmidt as your Student Body vice president.
Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at 
UF. His column appears on Mondays.
Travis Hornsby
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
TJ Villamil
Tj Villamil has already been a mayor, and 
now he’s going for president.
Villamil was elected town mayor by his 
third grade class. Now, as a senior at UF, he 
hopes his peers vote him Student Body presi-dent.
The 22-year-old telecommunication senior 
was born Jose Antonio Villamil IV . But every-one calls his dad Tony, so he’s Tony Jr, or Tj.
In Spring 2009, Villamil was assistant direc-
tor of the graduate affairs cabinet, and in Fall 2009 he won the District B Student Senate seat with the Unite Party. He eventually chaired the Budget Committee, and now he is Student Body treasurer.
“SG Finance took my heart,” he said. He’s 
also a brother of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity.
Villamil said his goal is to leave a substan-
tial legacy . He also wants students to leave the university with less debt.
He said he wants to build upon his party’s 
foundation.
He wants to use open-source e-textbooks, 
which are professor-generated. He said they are free online and $20 to print.
“I don’t want finances to get the in the way 
of the college experience,” he said.
Current Study Body President Anthony 
Reynolds met Villamil about three years ago through SG.
Reynolds said he has successfully worked 
with Villamil on budgets.
“Tj has done a phenomenal job stretching 
money and making it work,” Reynolds said.
Villamil said he’s a Florida boy at heart, 
and when he graduates, he would like to start his own Internet company in Florida.
“I think I feed off the energy of sunlight,” 
he said.
Sabine Justilien
Sabine Justilien, Unite Party candidate for 
Student Body vice president, supports the little guy.
The 21-year-old English junior from Miami 
said she wants to allow smaller organizations to have more of a presence in Student Govern-ment. She also said she wants them to become self-sufficient.
“Justilien is the current Division Chair for 
Campus Life in the SG Cabinet. Her job con-sists of overseeing and giving advice to the four cabinets under her — Orange and Blue, Student Organization Outreach, Housing and Greek Affairs.
She’s also a sister of Alpha Kappa Alpha 
sorority.
Justilien said her best experience in SG was 
FestivUs, a cultural art fair with about 12 or -
ganizations, last spring when she was in the Multicultural Affairs cabinet.
“It helped promote unity and the ability for 
people to go beyond their normal culture,” she said.
After college, Justilien wants to write chil-
dren’s literature that is relevant to minorities.
Lorena Silva, a 19-year-old hospitality and 
tourism management freshman, went to high school with Justilien.
She said Justilien encouraged her to apply for the Leadership Development Institute with the Black Student Union.
“If there’s one person on this campus I look 
up to, it’s Sabine,” she said.
Juan Rodriguez
Juan Rodriguez loves finance, but he is a 
political science and criminology major. His mom often asks him why.
The 20-year-old junior started college as 
an economics major. But he wasn’t passionate about the classes, and he switched fall of his freshman year.
“When I think of finance, I don’t think of 
numbers,” he said. “I think about helping stu-dents and being economically responsible.”
Rodriguez, the current Student Body vice 
president, is also the Unite Party candidate for Student Body treasurer.
Before Rodriguez was appointed VP , he 
was a Student Senator on the Budget Commit-tee.
He also served as president of the Hispanic 
Student Association and is a brother of Sigma Lambda Beta fraternity.
He said that as treasurer, he would put 
every SG-funded organization online and in-crease communication with a monthly trea-surer meeting.
Rodriguez accepted the vice president po-
sition because it was a great opportunity, he said, but he grew up in the finance office.
“I feel like the treasurer’s office was always 
my thing,” he said.
Virlany Taboada, former Student Body 
treasurer, took Rodriguez under her wing, she said.
“He was just a really active freshman,” she 
said.
She said now he has the VP and financial 
expertise.
Rodriguez said his biggest dream is to live 
in South Beach and work at a “big fancy law firm.”
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
Alex Cornillie
Student Body presidential candidate Alex 
Cornillie said he realized about two years ago 
that Student Government is broken.
He was press secretary for former Student 
Body President Ashton Charles at that time, and a lack of communication with an SG agen-cy director’s voting project led to Cornillie tak-ing it on himself.
“It’s not one person’s fault,” he said. “It’s a 
very broken system.”
Cornillie, a 21-year-old economics senior, is 
hoping to fix this as the Students Party presi-dential candidate.
He said he wants to make SG positions 
merit-based, and he hopes to downsize SG, especially the cabinet.
He first worked with SG during his sopho-
more year, when he was on the Reitz Union Board of Managers. He became spokesman for the Renew Your Reitz campaign.
Parts of the campaign got distorted, he 
said. He said it went from focusing on build-ing structure to a new, grander union.
Charles saw him at a Renew Your Reitz 
presentation and asked him to be her press secretary.
Although she was a member of the Unite 
Party , Cornillie wasn’t concerned because he never sided with any party.
He said his No. 1 goal if he gets elected is to 
see students get involved in SG.
“When ideas come from a handful of peo-
ple, you get a handful of ideas,” he said.
He opposes tuition increases. He also said 
he wants to cut down on what he sees as wasteful spending in SG.Cornillie has also been a Cicerone since his 
freshman year. He is an inactive brother of the Kappa Sigma fraternity.
Brooklyn Cravens, a 22-year-old adver -
tising senior, has known Cornillie since high school.
He said when Cornillie has a vision, he gets 
it done.
“He’s just a really awesome guy,” he said.
Jesse Schmitt
Every semester, the zombie apocalypse 
comes upon UF, thanks to Jesse Schmitt.
The 20-year-old political science and eco-
nomics junior is not only the founder of Gators Humans vs. Zombies. He’s also the Students Party Student Body vice presidential candi-date.
Schmitt has since moved on to tackling op-
ponents on the football field.
Schmitt walked on to the UF football team 
in Spring 2011 and plays fullback for the prac-tice team.
His main goal is to change students’ views 
of Student Government.
He has never held an SG position, but he 
has previously run for Senate seats.
Schmitt will be a second lieutenant in the 
Marine Corps when he graduates. He trains as part of the Platoon Leaders Course in the summer.
He also runs a charity called the Backpack 
Club of Gainesville.
Each month he fills about 60 backpacks 
with food and sends them out to elementary school kids. He took over in April 2011 from Stephanie Covey, a 22-year-old public rela-tions senior.
“He has a high level of energy that’s highly contagious,” she said.
Carly Wilson
UF Student Senator Carly Wilson started 
college as a biology major, but someone told her, “If you want to help people, do politics.”
She switched to political science that year, 
and that mentality pushed her toward Student Government. She served as a replacement sen-ator for two summers before she was elected to the Senate her junior year.
Wilson is now the Students Party treasurer 
candidate. She is a senator for District C and a member of the Budget Committee. Last semes-ter, she was the chairwoman of a temporary transparency committee, and she has served as an assistant director in the Community Po-litical Affairs cabinet.
However, Wilson said her greatest moment 
in SG was leaving the Unite Party , which she ran with in Fall 2010. She said she didn’t like being told how to vote, so she left in the sum-mer.
Former Students Party President Andrew 
Hart met Wilson through Senate. She was still in the Unite Party, and he was in the Student Alliance Party.
“Carly is the one person always leading the 
fights,” he said.
She said she wants to make it easier for stu-
dent organizations to get and keep money for their events.
Hart said she was always making sure Sen-
ate budgets were balanced.
“Friendship aside, she does have a good 
head on her shoulders,” he said.Students Party candidates encourage SG reform8, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
Courtesy to the Alligator
Unite Party executive candidates, Tj Villamil, Sabine Justilien and Juan Rodriguez, 
pose for a campaign photo.
Faces in the Race
Unite Party candidates promote student experience
Courtesy to the Alligator
Students Party executive candidates, Alex Cornillie, Jesse Schmitt and Carly Wilson, 
pose for a campaign photo. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
OLIVIA BUBRI
Alligator Contributing Writer
Twenty of UF’s most eligible male en-
gineers competed at the second annual 
Mr. Engineer pageant on Friday night at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
The engineers competed for a PlaySta-
tion 3, Xbox 360 or Wii gaming console in front of an audience of about 90.
The pageant, hosted by the Society 
of Women Engineers, consisted of four rounds: engineering wear, formal wear, a talent show and a Q&A.
After dressing up in engineering cos-
tumes, which included an aluminum foil robot, a Super Mario brother and Albert Einstein, the men returned to the stage dressed in suits and ties.   
Nineteen-year-old engineering sopho-
more Amanda Eifert’s favorite part was the talent round.
“These are people you see in a profes-
sional setting all the time, and then you see them up on stage singing and danc-ing,” Eifert said. “It’s so funny.”
Engineering freshman Evan Iler, 19, 
won the competition by one point.
Iler said he spent plenty of time prac-
ticing for his vocal performance of “Hal-lelujah.”     
“Shower time counts, right?”Male engineering students 
vie for Xbox, Wii in pageant� THE SPRAY IS NOT SOLD LOCALLY.
KIMBERLY GREENPLATE
Alligator Contributing Writer
AeroShot, a zero-calorie shot of inhalable 
caffeine, has caused controversy in the month 
since its release because of its potential for abuse by college students.
AeroShot comes in a lipstick-sized tube 
and sprays caffeine and B vitamins into the mouth.
In December, Sen. Charles Schumer, D-NY , 
asked the Food and Drug Administration to review AeroShot’s safety because it could be used as a club drug, ABC News reported.
“It has a high degree of potential for abuse,” 
said Bruce Goldberger, professor and director of toxicology at UF’s College of Medicine.AeroShot isn’t available in Florida stores 
yet, but it can be purchased online. Each Aero-Shot tube contains 100 milligrams of caffeine — as much as one cup of coffee. AeroShot’s website doesn’t recommend consumption of more than three tubes per day.
AeroShot is cheap at $2.99 a tube, and it is 
marketed to young people in social settings, Goldberger said.
He said he’s worried young people will 
use AeroShot and alcohol together with po-tentially severe health risks.
“All you have to do is look at Four Loko 
and its niche among young people,” Gold-berger said. 
Paul Stanley, a 22-year-old architecture se-
nior and admitted caffeine addict, said he is curious about AeroShot, but he would never replace coffee with it.Inhalable caffeine could lead 
to abuse, health problemson campus
KATHERINE HAHN
Alligator Contributing Writer
For women who want to com-
pete for the Miss UF crown, the reg-
istration deadline is Wednesday.
The Miss UF pageant will take 
place at 7 p.m. on Feb. 27 at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
Miss UF is an official pageant 
of the Miss America Organization, according to the pageant’s website. The winner will receive a scholar -
ship and advance to compete in the Miss Florida pageant in July — a stepping-stone to the Miss America competition.The student-run pageant is 
sponsored by Florida Blue Key, ac-cording to its website. The pageant was founded in 1956.
This year’s competition has 11 
contestants so far, said pageant Executive Director Becca Divine. The number of contestants usually ranges from 10 to 14.  She said her biggest goal is to in-
crease diversity among contestants.
Each contestant’s score will be 
based on a private interview, an on-stage interview, a talent competi-tion and evening-wear, lifestyle and swimsuit competitions, according to the Florida Blue Key website.
The titleholder will receive a $1,000 scholarship, Divine said. The three runners-up will also receive scholarships.
The pageant is partnering with 
Dance Marathon at UF and the Chil-dren’s Miracle Network, according to the Florida Blue Key website.
Tickets can be purchased at the 
door for $15.
Wednesday last day to register for Miss UF competitionEMILY MORROW
Alligator Staff Writer
General Truman A. Seymour lost the Battle 
of Olustee in 1864. Gen. James Permane has 
lost it 26 times since.
Every year since 1986, for one weekend in 
February, Permane leaves his job at a sports bar in Sarasota, dons the uniform of the United States Army, and leads his troops to defeat.
Permane, a 52-year-old Civil War reenac-
tor, plays Seymour’s part at the annual Olus-tee reenactment  — Florida’s largest Civil War 
battle.
The battle was part of an attempt by troops 
to restore Florida to the Union. Seymour, a Westpoint art teacher-turned-general, was 
unsuccessful in his efforts, though the Confed-eracy would surrender little more than a year after the decisive battle.
Permane, who said he reads Seymour’s 
letters from the battlefield to get into charac-ter, studied history at UF until dropping out in the ’80s. A soft-spoken man with blue eyes and red-gold curls that hang to his shoulders, he says he never gets tired of losing  — it’s all about the experience.
“You get a buzz being out there,” he said.He’s not alone. About 600 men, women and 
children put on the wool uniforms of the Con-federacy and the Union last weekend to face off on a battlefield about three football fields long.
Armed with muskets, bayonets, sabres and 
cannons, the troops recreated the meeting of 5,500 Union men and 5,200 Confederates that ended in a decisive Confederate victory, leav-ing 2,807 men dead or wounded.
The reenactment, now in its 36th year, is a 
three-day event that started Friday and lasted through Sunday afternoon at the Olustee Bat-tlefield Historic State Park. Participants set up camp and held public demonstrations of war -
time life, music and medicine, all leading up to the main event: the hour-long reenactment Sunday afternoon.At about 12:30 p.m., about 250 men fighting 
for the Union fell into formation to be inspect-ed by their units’ commanding officers.
As the men went through basic drills — 
left face, right face, present arms — a sergeant raised the call, “The Rebels are marching!”
Under a tattered American flag bearing four 
big holes, the troops marched into the woods. As they neared the battlefield, lined with over -
flowing bleachers, the men executed what Per -
mane describes as a “choreographed dance” where they precisely followed the original battle’s progression.
Riding Jenny, a dark brown mare from Ala-
bama, Permane sent his cavalry into battle first, charging the lines of Rebel infantrymen.
As the infantry fell back, the Union artillery 
fired its six cannons at once, sending smoke over the battlefield.
Jenny never faltered.Strong gusts of wind blew sand, smoke and 
gunpowder into the men’s eyes, and Permane sent the infantry marching out to meet the Con-federate Army in the center of the field.
Permane and Jenny cantered out to the right 
flank, shouting encouragement and direction to the units including the Third Battalion, un-der the command of 1st Lt. Jeff Grzelak.
Under heavy fire, the right flank fell back. As 
it did, Edgar McCray, a 40-year-old urban tree remover from Orlando, was shot and killed.
McCray is in his second year of Civil War 
reenactments. It was his love of history that drew him in.
His commanding officer, Grzelak, made it 
out of the battle alive but said he’s died many times in his 36 years of reenactments.
Soldiers on the field range from 16-year-
old boys to men in their 70s. Though it doesn’t happen often, Grzelak said he has seen some men actually die in battle, mostly from heat exhaustion.
“That’s the way I wanna go,” he said, “on 
the battlefield.”
As Grzelak and his unit retreated to the 
treeline, Permane steered Jenny around to the other side of the field as the left flank fell.
Permane and his officers shot deserters as 
they tried to flee the battle, and the outlook grew dimmer.
Confederate reinforcements rode out onto 
the field, bringing artillery and waving the flag of the Confederate State of Florida. Whooping and hollering, the rebels pressed harder, push-ing the Union troops back.
Finally, after watching man after man fall 
to the ground, Permane took off his wide-brimmed hat and waved it, leading his troops off the field.
The Confederate Army chased after them, 
firing at their backs and taking captives.
As the Confederate victory was assured, 
men helped each other up off the ground, brushing grass and sand off each others’ uni-forms.
The Confederate bugles played “Taps” as 
men crossed the field, rejoining their units to march back to camp and pack up their tents.
Permane dismounted and walked alone 
to the Union headquarters where his tent, the largest in camp, snapped in the breeze.
The formalities of battle over, he was no 
longer a general of the Union Army, just a guy from Sarasota who has a cellphone and eats cheeseburgers.
As tractors towed cannons away from the 
battlefield and men loaded their muskets into the beds of red Ford F-150s, Permane packed up his belongings.
Weekend generals have to take down their 
own tents. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
10, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
James Permane, portraying a Union general, watches the battle unfold during the 36th annual reenactment of the Battle of Olustee.
Stars and Bars, Smoke and Glory
The Battle of Olustee reenactment rages for its 36th year
An artilleryman wearing gloves with the markings of the Union Army’s 
3rd Rhode Island Heavy Artillery prepares for reenactment of the Bat-tle of Olustee.
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
A wounded Union soldier lies on the ground as the Confederate Army advances at the 36th annual reenact-
ment of the Battle of Olustee on Sunday.
Above: Lee Bledsoe, portraying a corporal in the 3rd Rhode Island 
Heavy Artillery, watches for Confederate States Army infantry as the 36th annual reenactment of the Battle of Olustee begins. Below: A sign calling for recruits rests on the side of a wagon in the Confederate States Army camp at the Olustee Battlefield Historic Park during the reenactment of the Battle of Olustee on Saturday.
Above: Edgar McCray, representing the 54th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, stands in for-
mation during an afternoon inspection Saturday. Below: A line of Union Army soldiers fire their rifles at advancing Confederate States Army troops during a mock Civil War engagement Saturday at the Olustee Battlefield Historic State Park.
Edgar McCray, representing the 54th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, rests in the U.S. Colored Troops encampment be-
fore participating in the reenactment of the Battle of Olustee on Sunday.JOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
Kitty Cullen was not going to be a non-
factor for long.
A game after being ejected in the first half 
with just one point, the junior attacker scored 
four goals and assisted on two more to lead No. 4 Florida (2-1) to an 18-6 win over Mary-land-Baltimore County (0-1) on Sunday.
“Not only was she a threat offensively 
with the ball, but also she was able to be smart and take good quality shots,” coach Amanda O’Leary said.
In UF’s 14-5 win against Jacksonville on 
Wednesday, Cullen received her second yel-low card with 35 seconds remaining in the first half and had to leave the game.
“I was definitely frustrated after Jackson-
ville,” Cullen, a native of Rockville, Md., who had several family and friends in attendance, said. “No one likes getting two yellow cards.” 
Following a slow start in which the Retriev-
ers took a 1-0 lead, the Gators got three straight goals from midfielder Brittany Dashiell and attackers Ashley Bruns and Gabi Wiegand.
Then, at the 14:31 mark, Cullen began to 
put the game out of reach when she extended UF’s lead to 4-1 by fighting through traffic and putting a shot past goalkeeper Kendall Mason. 
Both O’Leary and Cullen said the Gators were able to capitalize on numerous Retriev-ers double teams and find the open player.
Cullen also had a hand in UF’s sixth and 
seventh goals when she as-sisted on a Dashiell goal and the first of freshman Nicole Graziano’s five goals.
Seven minutes into the 
second half, Cullen scored UF’s first ever man-down goal. She had the ball out-side of the 12-meter fan, split  defenders, temporar -
ily lost control of the ball, scooped it up just outside the crease and put a shot past Mason just inside left post with two defenders col-lapsing on her.
“I was a little flustered,” Cullen said of the 
goal. “I just kind of went for it and it ended up going in, which was pretty lucky.”
After the Gators went up 6-1, the Retriev-
ers were not able to cut the deficit to less than five and did not score consecutive goals. 
Graziano’s five goals were a career-high, 
and freshman Shannon Gilroy recorded her first goal with 4:42 remaining in the game. Gil-roy also got her first assist on the last goal of the game, Graziano’s fifth, in the last minute.
“The more we can get them into games and 
feeling comfortable out there, that is what we are looking to do,” O’Leary said of the fresh-men. “They’re the future of this team.”
12 SEC contests.  Only once this season has a team 
limited itself to single-digit giveaways against the Razorbacks, who came in averaging a league-high 17.1 forced turnovers per game.
“I thought the key in the game was how we han-
dled their pressure,” Donovan said. “We were alert. The thing about it is you got to be a step ahead. So when you’re in your offense and all of a sudden the ball starts moving and they run a trap, you got to be in position to make the next pass.”
While the Gators’ scoring effort was fueled by the 
re-emergence of senior point guard Erving Walker, who scored a career-high 31 points, Florida was also reinvigorated defensively from the return of a key player.
Sophomore forward Will Yeguete, who regularly 
plays at the front of UF’s press, played his first min-utes since suffering his second concussion of the sea-son Feb. 11 against Tennessee. Though Florida only forced seven Arkansas turnovers, Yeguete helped the Gators hold an SEC opponent below 40 percent shooting both from the field and beyond the arc for the first time in 10 games.
“With Patric and Murphy  in foul trouble, I 
thought we got a great rebounding effort from Brad Beal and Will Yeguete,” Donovan said. “They had 20 rebounds between them.”
Donovan lauded the decision-making of his 
guards as the game progressed. Walker, who had five assists, went without a turnover for the fourth 
time this season.
Arkansas was only 
able to convert four of Florida’s turnovers into 
points and never trailed by less than 22 in the sec-ond half.
“We had a couple of things there, Erv get a tech-
nical foul, we lost our composure a couple times but they were playing hard,” Donovan said. 
“The way they were playing us defensively, we 
had to make good decisions because they turn peo-ple over.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org.� NO. 1 UF WON 15-4 ON SUNDAY.
JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
 
Nothing is permanent. Ask Michelle Moul-
trie.
Before the season started, the lone Florida 
senior told coach Tim Walton she wanted to 
bat first. Walton obliged. But just six games into the year, Moultrie moved down to the No. 2 hole while freshman Sami Fagan has taken the role of leadoff hitter for the previous three games.
With seven hits against Michigan State, 
Moultrie has shined in her new role.
“I don’t know if anything is ever perma-
nent,” Walton said. “Michelle wasn’t quite in her groove. But she found her groove now in the No. 2 spot.”
In the Gators’ 15-4 win Sunday against the 
Spartans, Moultrie went 3 for 3, scored four times and stole three bases. Before this week-end, she collected only four hits in six games and was not as productive as Walton wanted his leadoff hitter to be.
“It’s better for the team,” Moultrie said. 
“Sami is really good at getting on base, and I think it’s better for me. The type of hitter she is and the hitter I am, I think it’s better for her to hit first and me second.”
Moultrie certainly has experience at the 
No. 1 spot after hitting at the top of the lineup all of last season. As a junior, she led Florida with a .443 batting average, 101 hits and a .519 on-base-percentage.
However, both Moultrie and Walton agree 
that Fagan has every quality of a good leadoff hitter as well. Moultrie went as far to say Fa-gan may perform better than herself in the top spot of the lineup.
“She’s really good at slapping [and] she’s 
really good at bunting,” Moultrie said. “She can do a lot of different things, a lot more things probably than I can. Getting on base is what you’re trying to do as a slapper, so she’s really good at that and she has a lot of tools she can use.”
One of seven true freshmen, Fagan has 
started the season hot, winning the first South-eastern Conference Freshman Player of the Week award this year. Hitting .500 with four runs and three RBI this weekend, she has shown she is not afraid to take the challenge of leading off for the Gators.
“It helps that coach has confidence in me 
to get on base and start off the game good,” Fagan said. “I’m pretty confident there right now. (Walton) saw my speed and my ground bunts. I put the ball on the ground most of the time.”
Walton has already made several lineup 
changes this season, and there will likely be several more over the course of the year. How-ever, he said he likes the production so far from the early switch-up.
“I like (Moultrie) hitting in front of those 
power hitters, which really changes the pitch-es they get,” Walton said. “I’m happy with the move. It obviously scored a lot of runs on the weekend so I’m very pleased with that.”12, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
Aundre Larrow / Alligator
Florida freshman Sami Fagan (51) took over the leadoff spot from senior Michelle Moultrie 
for the Gators’ series against Michigan State after Moultrie slumped to start the year.
Moultrie, Fagan swap lineup spots in sweep of Michigan State 
LAcrosseCullen rebounds from ejection to lead Florida to road win
Hoops,  from page 17Yeguete makes return from concussionand-down season in an up-and-
down career, proved that Walker will never be more than a minute away from flipping the switch, transforming himself into an All-American and raising Florida’s caliber to a Final-Four level. 
When Arkansas missed again, 
Walker waved his right hand to call for the ball before UF even crossed half court. The pass found him in the same right-wing spot he caught the ball off the baseline screen, only this time he showed no hesitation. His re-lease was instantaneous, and the shot was pure. 
When Arkansas threw the ball 
away just a few seconds later, Scottie Wilbekin and Walker had a two-on-one from half court. As the defender shaded to Wilbekin and the ball, Walker had a chance to run to the basket for a layup. Instead, he sprinted directly to the corner, waving his right hand to ask for another chance at a three. Again, Walker’s shot was pure. 
For the rest of the game, he 
never put his hand down. Still, despite the apparent confidence surge, he never took bad shots. He drove the lane looking to pass, including a beautiful look-off to Murphy for another open three. 
Even when tempers flared 
and Walker may or may not have thrown the ball at and given a forearm shove to Devonta Abron, who happens to be a foot taller and 78 pounds heavier, Walker kept his game in check. 
He’s a liability at his worst 
and a true game changer at his best. Stringing together six great games in March is probably too much to ask, but he gives the Gators a chance. 
And if he can turn the corner 
and bring his distribution even when his shot is off, then he’ll be precisely the point guard Florida needs. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@
alligator.org.
GreG , from page 17cullen
UF Bask etballMONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
Need 4 students for 4 bedroom, 4 bath, fully 
furnished Condo $350 per month per student, includes utilities at Univ Terrace West 3800 SW 20th Ave 352-586-6468. Requires 1 year lease starting Aug 15th.   2-23-12-12-1
OPEN HOUSE
From 2-6pm  on   February 23rd
Tour our Newly Remodeled 4/4’s
*Prizes *Free Food *Music
Their going fast! 352.379.9300
4-25-12-43-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Only $1149! Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-28-12-36-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2bed/1bath Sun Key units starting at $550
2bed/1.5bath Sun Harbor Townhouse
starting at $575
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2BR/1BA close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    2-29-12-35-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-2-12-29-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   2-29-12-25-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   2-29-11-27-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE
Prestigious Bivens Arm. 5BR house, Pool, & Dock. Bike or walk to Shands & UF. Serious grad students preferred. $2500/mo. Call 619-857-9903    2-22-12-20-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #3. Please call 352-371-3473 leave message.       2-22-12-20-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
Trend’s Student House of the Month!
2710 NW 2nd Ave
302 NW 4th Ave
Amazing 3 bedroom Historic House  
Brand New Kitchen and Hardwood Floors
Close to UF Text “Trend” to 313131 for 
More Details
Trend4Rent.com
2-24-20-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor Townhouses $525
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
1bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $475!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
2-23-12-15-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available NOW.REDUCED to $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183   2-29-12-15-2
ONE Block to UF-Available 8/1/2012-2/2.5 
bath townhouse,w,d,dishwsh, guaranteed parking, wood floors VERY cute-1017 SW 1st Avenue www.forrentgainesville.com or 514-4915. Only 3 units remain!!!    3-14-12-20-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 2-20-11-35-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
2BR2BA  Condo  in Turkey Creek
Carpet, Dishwasher, Laundry Hkups,Close to Alachua & Gainesville 11426 NW 67th Terrace  $800/Mo  
2BR 1BA Garage Apt in Duckpond Area
Wood Floors, Laundry, Central H & Air726 NE 4th Street $800 /Mo
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF, 
Carpet, Central H & Air, CarpetLaundry., Inclds Wtr and Swg. $800/MoCan reserve for Summer or Fall now.Grad II 1236 SW 4th Avenue
2BR 1BA Apt Robert Obrien Apts
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat Gas HtNear Sams Club/Walmart  $500/Mo2901 NW 14th Street
2BR 1BA House in Oaks of Kanapaha
4845 SW 57th Drive $725/MoCarpet, Central H & Air, Laundry hkupsOff Archer Rd. 
Effeciency across from UF Stadium
2 Rooms, no kitchen, just Frig and sinkshared bathroom.  Most people bring in a hotplate or microwave $295/Mo 2-24-12-9-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
$19.99 to sign and $100 credit
4/4’s starting @ $329
Text “SANTAFE” to 47464 for more!
Now Leasing for FALL!
4-25-12-43-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Lovely 3/3, individual lease @ Campus 
Lodge, females only. Two great roommates. $459/mo, first floor, next to pool, see cam-puslogdeuf.com for rent/amenity details. Email azanotelli121@aol.com   2-28-2-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.SWM looking for roommate to share 2 story condo. Unfurnished 250 sft bedroom/prvt bath with access to furnished kitchen/living room.Located on Tower Rd 4 blocks S of Newberry RdEmsil: eleeng075@netscape.net   2-28-12-10-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
●●ESTATE SALE●● 
6pc BR, 10pc dr, 6pc off, 5pc dinette, couch, 8pc wicker, silver/china/art, decor items, can deliver. 4203 NW 69th St., 2/16-2/20. 7a-7p.    2-20-11-5-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
We Buy Cell Phones & other Electronics 
(iPads,iPods,Gaming Systems,Laptops.)Working or Not ! We Unlock & Repair PhonesTechmodo 6450 SW Archer RD(352)872-5881                 2-29-18-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 15
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I Buy Cars & Trucks
★ Call Anytime ★ 352-443-1100
3-13-12-20-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
97 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $699902 TOYOTA CAMRY $699904 CHEVY ASTRO $6999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
04 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $799902 HONDA ODYSSEY $799901 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,99906 SATURN ION $11,99907 FORD MUSTANG $12,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
We buy unwanted vehicles with or without 
title any condition,make,year or model we pay up to $20,000 and offer free towing call 813-516-0847    2-28-20-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  2-20-12-8-13
16, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
DONOR WANTED:
African-American undergoing IVF treatment with leading IVF Center seeking dark com-plexion African-American female egg donor between 21-28 years old. Must be able to pass background screening:  personal health history, family health history, psychological, drug and genetic testing. Past or current smokers do not apply.  Except for birth con-trol pills, egg donor cannot be on ANY medi-cation. Will pay $4,000 plus all IVF expenses including legal counseling.  Please send full length color photo to: 2614 North Tamiami Trail #311, Naples, FL 34103. Include: Name, D.O.B., mailing address, e-mail ad-dress, and PH #. Thank you in advance for your consideration.   2-20-1-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14●●● FEMALE SMOKERS! ●●●
Do you want to quit smoking? Female
smokers needed to participate in a smokingcessation study. You may be compensated.Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com2-20-20-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Bench Scientist Position. Research with 
ELISAs and antibody production. Familiarity with ELISAs and immunology desired. Should have a Bachelor's degree in science field. Please send resume to info@elisa-tek.com   2-20-12-14-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
We have the following
full and part time positions:●Tech Support Rep●Software Developer●Linux Administrator●Admin Asst●ACT/SAT Coordinator●Video Tech●Aviation Sales●Accounting EditorPlease complete an online application at www.gleim.com/employment.     3-2-12-15-14
A musician is need at Allen Chapel A.M.E. 
Church,High Springs. Need not be profes-sional, but must be able to play both tradi-tional and contemporary gospel. If interested please call Gloria James (386-454-9834) or Eyvonne Andrews (386-454-3186).    2-20-5-14
Receptionist needed for professional sup-
portive office environment FT 8-5 M-F 10.00 per hour Please Email resume toCorey@mssgainesville.com    2-24-12-7-14
NANNY NEEDED RIGHT AWAY:
30hrs:M-F 2hrsam/+2:45-6:45pm; 3.5yrs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com2-20-12-3-14
Sales Asst/Customer Svc Rep
Apply in person at
Tomlinson Motor Company, 3580 N Main St$10/hr, part time 15-20 hrs/wk - flexible.     2-23-12-6-14
Part time lot position at busy powersports 
store. Self motivated person able to do a variety of jobs including cleaning, set up and loading of machines. Requires some heavy and strenuous work.  Applicants must be presentable, and have a valid license. Mechanical aptitude is a must. Motorcycle en-dorsed preferred. Apply in person at Polaris of Gainesville  12556 nw US hwy 441 Alachua   2-20-12-3-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION FT
ECG DepartmentPlease apply in personInstitute of Veterinary Spec3603 NW 98th St. Suite A         2-22-5-14   
RECEPTION POSITION
FTPlease apply in personInstitute of Veterinary Spec3603 NW 98th St Suite A         2-22-5-14
Obtain valuable experience for your future!!
Gainesville Health & Fitness Center 
is looking for highly motivated,
responsible, hardworking individuals
for the following positions…
Floor Instructors
Kids’ Club Attendants
Front Desk
Maintenance/Housekeeping
Zwurly’s Café
No prior experience needed. 
Part time and Overnight positions available.
We will be holding a Job Fair on
Tuesday, February 21 & Wednesday,
February 22
from 10am-2pm both days. 
 At 4820 Newberry Road
2-20-12-2-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    3-1-12-10-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer day camp pro-gram. Positions in the camp are available in our Pre-Kindergarten, Kindergarten, and our elementary school age day camps offered at Oak Hall. A total of 8 FT and PT counselor positions plus 2 FT Head Counselor positions are available for the summer. Individuals for the day camp should be available to work daily from June 11-July 27. Interested ap-plicants should submit a resume to Maggie Martin via e-mail at mmartin@oakhall.org by March 16th. Interview information regarding group interview on March 17th will be sent out upon receipt.   3-16-12-15-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Transcendental Meditation Technique: A 
free Introductory Lecture, Sunday, Feb. 26, 1pm at the Hampton Inn, Arredondo Room, 101 S.E. 1st Ave, Gainesville, FL 32601. Questions: 352-338-1249 orabyxbe@tm.org, Allan Byxbe.   2-24-12-8-20
HAPPY HOUR @ CHAMPAGNE SALON
$10 Eyebrow Threading
1109 W. University Ave. 215-2873   2-24-5-
20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
CHINCHILLA+ All accessories for Sale! $175 
OBO. Sweet 3yo M chinchilla with cage and accessories. Email for pics and more info: AMH730@yahoo.com   2-20-4-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    2-29-12-33-15
MIT Mathematics Graduate. TUTORING 
available for HIGH SCHOOL and COLLEGE STUDENTS. Taught last semester at UF. E-mail/call for REFERENCES and RATES. (352) 519-8974 and avila@alum.mit.edu   2-27-12-10-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    3-23-12-20-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Special February and March Rates- $99 
Advanced Cardiac Life Support and $35 Basic Life Support(BLS)(CPR).American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.    3-20-12-18-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Men vs. Women
Which is more likely: A trip to the Final Four for the men’s 
basketball team, or a trip to the NCAA Tourney for the first time since ‘08-’09 for the women? Vote at alligatorSports.org
Florida swimmers Marcin Cieslak and Elizabeth Beisel won three 
gold medals and Southeastern Conference Swimmer of the Year honors at the SEC Championships in Knoxville, Tenn. ... Also, the men’s tennis team dropped two straight matches at the ITA Indoor Championships this weekend. See stories at alligatorSports.org.David Carr / Alligator 
Florida manager Kevin O’Sullivan (right) tugs the jersey of pitcher Steven Rodriguez after umpire Rob Healy ejected Rodriguez from the game for throwing behind Cal State Fullerton batter Austin Kingsolver. UF lost 8-5 on Sunday. 
� UF LOST 8-5 SUNDAY 
BUT WON SERIES, 2-1.
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Steven Rodriguez threw 
five pitches on Sunday. 
The third pitch was an 
RBI single to center field, the 
fourth a three-run homer into the left-field bleachers, which was celebrated by Cal State Fullerton in near walk-off fashion. 
On his fifth pitch, Rodri-
guez snapped. 
He threw behind Titans 
left fielder Austin Kingsolver and was immediately ejected, walking toward Kingsolver with plenty to say before coach Kevin O’Sullivan pulled him away by his jersey.
“Nothing good comes out 
of a situation like that for ei-ther team,” O’Sullivan said. “Emotions were running high and we’ve got to show a little better poise in that situation.”
No. 1 Florida (2-1) was 
already in danger before the sixth-inning appearance by Rodriguez, but the four runs made an eventual 8-5 loss at the hands of No. 25 Cal State Fullerton (1-2) a reality. 
After rallying from behind 
in the first two games of the weekend series, the Gators jumped on the Titans early on Sunday. Thanks to a wild col-lege debut by Fullerton fresh-man starter Kenny Mathews, the Gators went up 3-0 in the second on three hit batters, a walk and a Daniel Pigott RBI single. 
But in both the third and 
fifth innings, Florida had run-ners in scoring position with no outs but failed to extend its lead. At one point, the Gators got the leadoff man on four Florida drops chippy 
series finale to Cal State Fullerton
see bAsebAll, p Age 19
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Before the first half ended in Bud 
Walton Arena, it was clear Florida was 
not going to play like any of Arkansas’ previous guests.
Sporting a perfect 17-0 record at 
home prior to Saturday night, the Ra-zorbacks had made a habit of hassling their visitors with an unrelenting pres-sure defense that led the Southeastern Conference in steals, turnovers forced and turnover margin. 
Normally, Arkansas would be push-
ing double-digit takeaways at halftime. Instead, Florida was more than mid-way to breaking the century mark.
The truth is, the Gators’ scouting 
report on the Razorbacks’ press began weeks ago.  
After beating Vanderbilt on Feb. 4, 
freshman guard Brad Beal said Flori-da’s 17-forced turnover performance in that game was inspired by Arkansas’ own use of a trap defense in an eight-point home win against the Commo-dores on Jan. 31. 
That preparation continued into 
last week, as UF coach Billy Donovan 
made breaking the Razorback’s pressure a top priority.
“We worked on 
that in practice; we 
did a V-cut (pass-ing) drill every day,” junior guard Kenny Boynton said. “[Sat-urday] in shoot-
around that was the main focus: Take care of the ball.”
The 11 turnovers Florida committed 
in its 30-point win Saturday were tied for the fewest Arkansas has forced in Arkansas’ press proves to 
be no problem for FloridaeND OF gRegUlATION
For the first eight minutes of Saturday’s 
game, Erving Walker was still struggling to break free of his offensive funk. 
On Florida’s fourth possession, the senior 
point guard dribbled inside the arc, pulled up from 3 feet behind the free throw line and missed badly on a midrange jumper. 
On UF’s next try, Walker came running off 
of a pair of baseline screens and caught the ball on the right wing, where he passed up a wide-open shot. 
“I think that’s a good decision,” ESPN 
analyst Jimmy Dykes said on the broadcast. “Walker has really struggled shooting the bas-ketball. He’s a facilitator right now more than anything.”
And for eight minutes, that was Walker’s 
role. Pass, pass, pass. 
Florida’s lead kept growing, but it was as 
if the offense was running around him, not through him. He racked up a pair of assists, but other than that he was mostly uninvolved. Whether standing on the wing or alone in the corner, it looked as if Walker didn’t even want the ball. Then, a highlight-
reel layup sparked change. 
Walker took an 
inbounds pass with 11:38 left in the open-ing half and dribbled to the left wing. From there, Walker drove 
across the perimeter and hesitated slightly at the right elbow before finding a lane and forc-ing his way to the basket. He extended his right arm and put a lay-up high off the glass, apparently lighting a fire in his play. 
Although his return to defense was noncha-
lant, his offensive game was never the same. 
He made smart passes and even smarter 
shots, racking up five assists and a career-high 31 points on only 12 attempts. 
It was the perfect Erving Walker perfor -
mance. One we’ve never seen before, and one we may never see again. 
But a showing like Saturday’s, after an up-Walker’s career night displays 
just how good he can be for UF
see HOOps, p Age 12
see gReg, p Age 12
greg luca
twitter: @gregluca
Donovan
Poll Results
Should Will Muschamp 
kick A.C. Leonard off the team?65% Yes
35% NO
52 total votes18, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 19
women’s basketball
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The Gators finally got over the close-game 
hump.
After losing nine games by six points or 
fewer, Florida (17-10, 7-7 Southeastern Con-
ference) upset No. 18 Georgia (20-7, 9-5 SEC) 
61-57 Sunday in the O’Connell Center.
The win over UGA marks UF’s third vic-
tory in a game decided by six points or fewer this season and its first since defeating LSU at home Jan. 15.
“[Playing close games] is what we’ve been 
doing all year long,” Jones said. “We’ve faced so much adversity, so many close losses, and each time, we’ve bounced back and given someone more than they gave us the night before.”
By knocking off the Bulldogs, the Gators 
remain in contention for their first bid to the NCAA Tournament since the 2008-09 sea-son.
Going into Sunday’s contest, UF ranked 
39th in RPI and 15th in strength of schedule.
Should Florida place fourth or better in 
conference at season’s end, it would clinch a first-round bye in the SEC Tournament.
“Obviously, (we’re) improving where we 
stand in the league and continuing to im-prove our NCAA resume,” Butler said.
Jennifer George led Florida’s upset bid 
despite playing just eight minutes in the first half due to foul trouble. The junior logged 17 second-half minutes, scoring nine of her 15 points and grabbing five of her six rebounds after halftime.
“We’re one of the hardest-working teams 
in the SEC and just for us to get the reward, it feels good,” George said. “We’ve had so much challenges in the past in our close loss-es, and we’re just at a point where we refuse to lose.”The Gators, led by George’s six boards, 
outrebounded the Bulldogs 42-32. But UF’s success on the glass was a shared effort.
Ndidi Madu finished right behind George 
with five rebounds, while Deana Allen, An-drea Vilaro Aragones, Lanita Bartley and Azania Stewart each had four. 
“Our first effort was good, but our second 
effort was always better,” Butler said. “We were really tenacious on the boards, and per -
sistent. We didn’t just go away when some-one had us boxed out.”
In addition to her rebounding, Aragones 
made her mark offensively.The Spanish guard set a career-high with 
10 points on 4-of-9 shooting, besting her pre-vious mark of eight points against Vanderbilt on Thursday.
“If we were able to measure basketball IQ, 
[Aragones’] may be the highest on our team,” Butler said. “I don’t think that her teammates and her coaches are surprised at all by such a great offensive outpouring.”
Florida went into halftime leading 27-25 
after outrebounding Georgia 6-0 during an 8-0 run in the last 3:33 of the first 20 minutes.
By holding on for the win, UF’s record 
when leading at the half improved to 15-1.
“My prayer was before the game was 
that they would get what they deserve and that is absolutely what happened,” Butler said. “They made that happen. A lesser team would have folded under what we’ve expe-rienced.”
Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@alligator.
org.
Gators pull upset of No. 16 Bulldogs to improve tourney resume
Florida struggles to drive in runs despite ample opportunities
innings in a row but failed to capitalize.
“We did have some trouble with that early, not scoring 
runners,” senior right fielder Preston Tucker said. “We had 
a lot of lost opportunities and unfortunately that cost us the game.”
Florida went 2 for 12 on the day with runners in scoring 
position, including three strikeouts, a walk and a hit batter. 
The troubles seeped over to defense when starter Brian 
Johnson departed the game after four innings.
The lefty threw 75 pitches, but was taken out for soph-
omore Jonathon Crawford (0-1) due to an early-season pitch-count limit. Relievers Crawford, Rodriguez and Greg Larson combined to give up eight runs on eight hits in 2.1 innings. 
“[The Titans’] relief was better than our middle relief, 
and they took advantage of some pitch-ing there in the middle of the game,” O’Sullivan said. 
Fullerton reliever Koby Gauna (1-0) 
got the victory, going five innings and al-lowing just one run. 
Sunday had two main bright spots for 
UF. Tucker, who went 6-for-11 on the weekend with four RBI and two homers, had three hits and is now two RBI away 
from tying the school record of 214 set by Brad Wilkerson. Freshman Bobby Poyner made his collegiate debut after 
missing most of his senior season of high school. He pitched the final 1.2 innings of the game, giving up one hit and no runs. 
Overall, O’Sullivan called the weekend a success. UF 
won Friday, 8-3, behind a four-run explosion in the seventh inning and rode the right arm of Austin Maddox through four innings of one-hit relief Saturday for a 5-2 decision. 
But for a team billed as the nation’s best, everything will 
be dissected. Manufacturing runs and middle relief were questions coming into the season, and the Gators didn’t change that on Sunday.
“I know that we’re better than we played,” Pigott said. 
“It’s early, so we’ve got some time.” baseball , from page 17“We’ve had so much challenges 
in the past in our close losses and 
we’re just at a point where we re-
fuse to lose.”
Jennifer George
UF forward 
o’sullivan
20, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2012
