VOLUME 106 ISSUE 112 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
94/84 Gators begin SEC Tournament:
Florida’s women’s basketball team kicks off the 
SEC Tournament today against Auburn, pg. 17. 
Panelists rally students to re-elect Obama
Chief strategist David Axelrod spoke at the Rion Ballroom, pg 3.  
Gainesville Police crack down on grafﬁ  ti
Eleven artists have been arrested so far, pg 5. Bonnaroo 
2012 is coming 
soon. Read 
page 12 for this 
year’s line-up.
soon. Read 
page 12 for this 
year’s line-up.
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 13CROSSWORD  15
SPORTS 17Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
Political Plans
David Axelrod, former adviser to President Obama and the communications director for his 2012 re-election campaign, discusses past actions and future plans for the Obama administration Wednesday evening in the Rion Ballroom. Read the story on page 3.
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville police arrested two 
UF students on charges of rape 
Tuesday.
Joshua G. Rupp, 22, and Neil S. 
Williams, 21, assaulted a passed-out woman at her 2nd Avenue Centre apartment on Jan. 10, ac-cording to police. The two met the victim at 101 Cantina, GPD spokes-woman Cpl. Angelina Valuri said.
The woman was too drunk dur-
ing the assault to resist, according to police. She does not remember the incident, and her name was not released.
Police arrested Williams around 
3 p.m. Tuesday and Rupp at 5:17 p.m. Williams told ofﬁ  cers he and Rupp both had sex with the wom-an on Jan. 10.
Both men are former members 
of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. 
Rupp dissoci-ated from the organization last summer, and 
Williams left in the fall, frater-nity President Ethan McMahon said.
He said they 
both left for ﬁ  nancial reasons. Neither one was spending much time with the fraternity before dropping out from the group, so it made sense to stop paying dues.
“They are no longer afﬁ  liated 
with us at all,” McMahon said. “I haven’t talked to either one of them for a while.”
Rupp is a UF information sys-
tems senior. Williams is a UF soci-ology junior.
Rupp did not return a call from 
the Alligator seeking comment Wednesday. A phone number list-ed for Williams on the arrest report was disconnected.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alliga-
tor.org.Two UF 
students charged with rape
� OWNER ESTIMATES REPAIRS WILL 
COST $25,000 TO $40,000.
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Staff Writer
One day after a ﬁ  re engulfed the kitchen at 
Satchel’s Pizza, owner Satchel Raye said he’s 
hopeful about rebuilding.He guessed Tuesday night the restaurant 
would be closed for about six weeks.
“I feel better today,” he said on Wednes-
day afternoon. “Looking at it today and all the help we had come in here, I’d say a month. Tomorrow I could feel different.”
The ﬁ  re that started in the kitchen Tuesday 
night forced the evacuation of 25 customers.
Raye said heat from the ovens dried out 
the wooden studs in the corner of the kitchen. The studs got hot enough to ignite, and ﬂ  ames started burning inside the wall in the space between the bricks and the outside wall.
Gainesville Fire Rescue was able to stop 
the ﬁ  re before it damaged the rest of the building, but water from the ﬁ  re hoses left the dining room ﬂ  ooded and debris everywhere.
The kitchen, including the ovens and a 
day-old air conditioning unit, is ruined.Employees’ spirits high after Satchel’s ﬁ  re
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Fightin’ Gator March-
ing Band is seeking donations 
to help fund its trip to the 2012 Olympic Games in London. Jay Watkins, director of the march-ing band, recently penned a letter to Gainesville Mayor Craig Lowe asking for donations.
“It’s a huge honor just to get 
asked,” Watkins said. “Now try-ing to make it happen is the nuts and bolts of what’s kicking us in the teeth.”
The trip will cost a total of  $1.3 
million, he said. Without any out-side funds, he said, each member would have to pay $4,000.
Two hundred band members have already paid deposits for the trip, said drum major Sarah Piper, 21, but many are struggling with the steep cost.
“People I know are working 
to make that money,” the elemen-tary education senior said. “I’m one of eight alumni in Gator Band Marching band seeking money for Olympics tripSEE FIRE, PAGE 4
SEE BAND, PAGE 4Rupp
The trip will cost a total of $1.3 millionNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 112 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Marissa Prieto, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett,   
  David Williams, Nika Zecevic
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 A
dvertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Queer People of Color
Today, 11:45 a.m.
Institute of Black Culture, 1510 W University Ave.This is an open forum discuss-ing the issues of queer people of color. The discussion will provide a safe place for con-versations and questions about the experiences and challenges that students face every day. Come learn and talk about the ways our intersecting identi-ties affect our lives and our communities. Free food will be provided.
StartupBus
Today to March 11StartupBus is a competition, hackathon and road trip. Participants create start-up businesses en route from Tampa to SXSW in Austin and pitch their ideas to a panel of experts. Participants depart March 6, attend semifinals in San Antonio and arrive in Austin on March 9. The grand finale will take place at SXSW’s Startup Village on March 11. To sign up, go to subtampabay.wufoo.com/forms/interested/
Rethinking the Age of King 
ArthurMarch 13, 6 p.m.UF Smathers Library, 1ABritish historian Guy Halsall will give a public lecture ex-amining the historical roots of King Arthur.
SHPE’s Eighth Annual Goals 
for Tomorrow Soccer TournamentMarch 17, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.Flavet FieldCome to the Goals for Tomorrow Soccer Tournament and support the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers as they host the largest soccer tournament on campus. Show off your skills and win a replica of the FIFA World Cup Trophy. Food and entertainment will be provid-ed, and the event will feature DJs Eklaa Duo. Real Madrid merchandise will be raffled off. All proceeds will go to the GFT Scholarship Fund. For details and registration go to GFT2012.com and like our Facebook page. Sign up soon to reserve your team’s space.
Giddy Up Gators 5K
March 24, 8 a.m.Flavet FieldThe Student Occupational Therapy Association will host its annual 5K run and walk to raise money for the organiza-tion HOrses helping PEople (HOPE). HOPE is a nonprofit organization that utilizes equine assistant therapy to help enrich the lives of indi-viduals with disabilities.Register online at bit.ly/seat being vacated by retiring 
Sen. James Webb, a Democrat.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Marine credits karma for $2.9 
million jackpot
LAS VEGAS — Marine Cpl. 
Alexander Degenhardt is cred-
iting karma for landing a $2.9 million progressive slot jackpot in Las Vegas.
Degenhardt was accepted 
as a bone marrow donor to an anonymous patient only a cou-ple of days before hitting the jackpot Sunday at the Bellagio, the Las Vegas Sun reported.
“They asked me if I was sure 
I wanted to go through with it because it’s kind of painful, but what’s a little pain if it will save someone’s life?” Degenhardt said. “I look at this jackpot as kind of good karma for that.”
Degenhardt, 26, said he plans 
to continue his career with the Marines and go through with the bone marrow donation, which is expected to occur in the next six months after exten-sive testing.
He and several fellow Ma-
rines had flown to Las Vegas from Washington, D.C., where he’s stationed, for a week of training at Nellis Air Force Base. He said he decided to kill a couple of hours before the re-turn flight by playing the penny slot, which takes bets from 40 cents to $2, at the Bellagio. He landed the jackpot about 10 minutes later.
“I figured I’d just go lose 
$100 real quick,” he said. “I was overwhelmed and in shock. It’s something you always want to happen, but when it does hap-pen you don’t believe it.”
Degenhardt, who will re-
ceive about $100,000 a year over 20 years, said he plans to first help his pregnant sister and his mother catch up on bills.
He decided to buy some 
clothes after the jackpot — at a thrift store, where he buys all of his clothes. He said he won’t part with his car that has rolled up some 250,000 miles, either.
“I plan to keep driving it un-
til I can’t anymore,” he told the Sun. “No sense in wasting mon-ey. I’m really pretty thrifty.”
The Bally Technologies’ 
Money Vault slot machine at the Bellagio is linked with casinos across Nevada. It was the sec-ond largest jackpot ever for Bal-ly, which makes the machines and pays out the jackpots.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSGiddyUp5K by March 9 to be 
guaranteed a T-shirt. More information on Facebook: Giddy Up Gators 5K.
5K to HEAL
March 25, 8:30 a.m.Park-N-ride lot across from Southwest Recreation CenterPut your New Year’s reso-lutions to the test in this 5K fundraiser to benefit the VetMed chapter of Project HEAL. Register in advance online at www.active.com for $15 or register on race day for $20. Walkers are wel-come.
Health Expo
March 27, 28, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.Reitz Union ColonnadeCome and get your person-al health inventory at our Health Expo. Learn how to stay healthy while being a student. Sponsored by Baby Isaac and Campus Advent. Online at:babyisaac.org
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
inteRnatiOnaL
Hank the cat in Virginia sets sights on US Senate
SPRINGFIELD, Va.  — A 
new U.S. Senate candidate 
in Virginia wears a tie, has a campaign website and even launched an ad. One big dif-ference? He has a thick coat of fur.
Hank the cat has thrown 
his paw into the race, running to mock the political status quo. The cat’s owner, Anthony Roberts, says he and his part-ner set up the campaign as an inside joke. But the campaign’s website has crashed after a re-cent spate of publicity.
Hank’s campaign posters 
show the Maine Coon gazing upward, wearing a tie. An ad says Hank, a moderate, will work to make sure America stays the greatest land of all.
Hank is running for the PARTLY
CLOUDY
83/61PARTLY
CLOUDY
82/62THUNDER
STORMS
83/59THUNDER
STORMS
66/41SUNNY
68/42MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
City eleCtions
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
Voter turnout in the city runoff election Tuesday 
was at a typical low, attracting about 14 percent of the 
72,176 registered voters.
Judging from precinct turnout, the number of UF 
students who voted in the runoff was modest as well, said Supervisor of Elections Pam Carpenter.
It is impossible to generate the exact number of UF 
students who vote in city elections, Carpenter said, because voters are not asked to identify themselves as students on their voter registration application.
The Supervisor of Elections Office follows the 
makeup of the neighborhoods around campus, and it uses that knowledge to estimate student voter turn-out.
Students who live on campus vote at the Reitz 
Union. Out of 4,131 registered voters, 48 people voted at that location in the runoff.
The Phillips Center for the Performing Arts and the 
Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art had a combined turn-out of 365 voters out of about 8,878 registered voters. Residents who live in apartment complexes border-ing Archer Road, like The Estates and Oxford Manor, voted at The Phillips Center and the Harn.
Residents who live along University Avenue east 
of 34th Street voted at Campus Church of Christ. Out of 829 registered voters, 189 people voted in the run-off.
Stephen Smith, a 21-year-old political science se-
nior, said he’s not the least bit surprised by student voter turnout.
“It’s expected, especially in a runoff” he said. “Vot-
ing involves some effort to get to know the candidates, and students just don’t want to put in that effort.”
Some of UF’s political organizations tried to inform 
students and encourage them to vote, Smith said.
Both the UF College Democrats and UF College 
Republicans worked during the regular city election 
and the runoff to inform students about candidates and get them out to the polls.
UF College Democrats held a 
campaign during regular elections, Vote 100, in an effort to get 100 stu-dents to commit to voting in the city-
wide election. The organization got about 150 to vote in the regular elec-tion on Jan. 31.
According to Erin Murphy, president of UF College 
Democrats, the campaign stemmed from the city’s mayoral race in 2010 in which Mayor Craig Lowe won by 42 votes.
“One hundred students can determine a race,” the 
21-year-old environmental science senior said. “Stu-dents need to realize that.”
Contact Adrianna Paidas at apaidas@alligator.org.Student voter turnout low in city runoff
� AXELROD DISCUSSED 
OBAMA’S PLANS FOR EDUCATION AND HEALTH CARE.
TOVA MILLER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The chief strategist of Presi-
dent Barack Obama’s re-elec-
tion campaign and the chair -
man of the Florida Democratic Party encouraged students to re-elect the president at a rally Wednesday night.
At the Greater Together 
Youth Summit, strategist David Axelrod, party Chairman Rod Smith and a panel of speakers rallied students to vote. UF Col-lege Democrats President Erin Murphy also sat on the panel.The summit kicked off the 
Gators for Obama organiza-tion. Panelists, students and party supporters discussed Obama’s expansion of Federal Pell Grants for college students and his changes to health care coverage.
Gainesville resident Ian 
Blake, 28, is passionate about the party but disagrees with how its leaders come across.
“Axelrod is a policy wonk 
and has an issue articulating a message,” he said.
Civil engineering sopho-
more Andres Llano, 20, said he was not expecting much before he came.
“I didn’t really know what 
it was about,” he said. “But I like what the Democrats stand for, especially since I’m an im-migrant.”Panelists rally students 
to vote, re-elect Obama
Carpenter
Raye said he couldn’t be sure 
about the cost of the damages 
until he talked to an insurance agent, but he estimated it would take $25,000 to $40,000 to repair the restaurant.
“It was pretty rough this 
morning because it was in the light of day and all the adrena-line and craziness of last night had worn off,” he said. “I had a pretty good cry.”
Raye said his spirits were lift-
ed Wednesday morning when all of his employees came back to help haul the soggy flotsam and jetsam from inside the res-taurant to the Dumpster.
Raye will speak with insur -
ance adjusters and contractors in the coming days.
The restaurant’s insurance 
doesn’t cover all the food that spoiled after the fire, and it might not cover the kitchen equipment, Raye said. The building is covered.   
Satchel’s employees will go 
on unemployment, but it might not be enough to tide them over until Satchel’s re-opens, he said. 
He wants to set up a Kick-
starter campaign where people can donate money to offset em-ployees’ income while Satchel’s rebuilds.
Satchel’s server Jen Garrity, 
37, said she and many of her coworkers are grateful for the outpouring of support from stu-dents and Gainesville residents.
“I feel like I’m working at the 
right kind of restaurant,” she said.
Contact Erin Jester at ejester@
alligator.org.4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Jingshu Xu, a 20-year-old junior and exchange student from China, talks with academic          
adviser Sallie Schattner about graduate programs at the Majors Fair held on the Reitz Union Colonnade on Wednesday afternoon. 
AYANA STEWART
Alligator Contributing Writer
Undecided students got a chance to 
explore and choose majors at an informa-
tional fair Wednesday.
More than 40 UF departments and or -
ganizations participated in the fourth an-nual Majors Fair.
The annual fair, co-hosted by the Ca-
reer Resource Center and Student Gov-ernment, brought organizations to the Re-itz Union Colonnade to set up tables with information about various majors.
UF offers 120 undergraduate majors.Jean Burns, an academic adviser with 
the College of Public Health & Health Professions, said the fair gives students the tools to decide which major they want to pick.
“It’s like browsing in a department 
store,” she said. “You can go from table to table, and it’s much easier than an advis-ing appointment.”
Kimberly Harris, a 20-year-old explor -
atory engineering sophomore, said the fair answered a lot of her questions about switching majors.
After getting several pamphlets and 
meeting with an adviser, she said she’s leaning between chemical engineering, and industrial and systems engineering.Jane Nappi, a 21-year-old environmen-
tal engineering junior, said she noticed a booth about a minor in plant science, and the topic jumped out at her. 
She said she’s considering adding it as 
a minor.
“I would have never looked into that,” 
she said.
Cynthia Sain, an academic adviser in 
the Department of Chemical Engineering, said students should be aware of the ca-reer fairs at the university.
“This is a way to gather information to 
make sure you’re making the right choic-es in your education,” Sain said.
She also recommends the CRC, Career 
Showcase and Career Connections for ca-reer help.
Angel Iverson, the assistant director 
for Career Events at the Career Resource Center, said the fair helps students dis-cover majors, connect with people in vari-ous departments and learn about various curriculum.Majors Fair gives students information about majors and minorsBENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Writer
The Gainesville Public Safety Committee 
decided Wednesday to ask the City Com-
mission to let downtown food trucks and other vendors stay open until 3 a.m. and to let businesses sell alcohol on a parking lot there.
The committee decided to recommend 
that alcohol sales be allowed on a parking lot at Southwest First Avenue and North-west Second Street. This exception would allow people to drink while on that parking lot.
Events like Fest, a yearly Gainesville mu-
sic festival, would be able to sell alcohol on that lot when it comes to town. Alcohol sales would bring in a bit more revenue, which would be an incentive to keep ticket prices low, said Tony Weinbender, Fest founder.
If the commission passes the change, 
Weinbender said he wants to hold a smaller event around Mother’s Day to test the ex-ception and the alcohol sales.
The committee also discussed what the 
city could do about noise that comes from outdoor downtown concerts near homes.
City Commissioner Jeanna Mastrodicasa, 
the chair of the committee, said a concert in early fall rattled the windows of houses nearby with loud music and offensive lyrics, 
including profanity.
“There is a logistics is-
sue before there is a moral issue,” Mastrodicasa said.
Ronald Combs, counsel 
for the committee, made a list of how Orlando, Tampa, 
Fort Lauderdale and Boca Raton handle outside con-cert noise.
Mastrodicasa said the committee first 
talked about outside concert noise and food vendors downtown in November 2011.
The committee didn’t make a motion 
about the noise from outdoor concerts.
Contact Ben Brasch at bbrasch@alligator.org.After-hours alcohol sales may be 
allowed on downtown parking lot
� RATES ARE HIGHER.
MIKELA WARMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
While students begin to rent caps 
and gowns, local hotel managers say 
they haven’t seen rooms fill up this fast since the days of Tebow.
The Class of 2012’s graduation cer -
emonies, which will take place April 27 to May 6, are causing hotel rooms to quickly fill up, according to local hotel managers.
Eric Wagner, sales coordinator at 
the Hilton University of Florida Con-ference Center said the hotel is already sold out for the whole weekend. People start making reservations about a year in advance.
Wagner said they see a lot of rooms 
fill up as early as January or February , once students’ graduation dates are confirmed.
Prices rise for this weekend in par -
ticular because of a large demand for multiple hotel rooms.
Kristen Hughes, area sales manager 
at the Holiday Inn on Southwest 13th Street and University Avenue, said peo-ple book rooms about a year in advance as well.
The Holiday Inn sold out its last 
room a month ago, Hughes said.
Marcos Tejeda, a concierge at the 
Hampton Inn and Suites downtown, said the hotel recently filled up but won’t change much in terms of staff-ing.Hotels begin to fill up 
for graduation weekend
Fire , from page 1Owner wants fundraiser for employeesBand asked UF for $130K
from V ero Beach High School; we 
had the newspaper write an article for us at home.”
Watkins said the band requested 
$130,000 from UF — 10 percent of the total cost. University officials have not revealed how much they plan to donate.
So far, the Florida Attorney Gen-
eral’s Office has been the band’s largest contributor, donating $5,000.
To help raise money , the band 
launched its $10 for ‘12 campaign last week,
“We’re asking, if you’ve heard 
the Gator band, just donate $10 to get us to the 2012 Olympics,” Wat-kins said.He said to make a real impact on 
the cost of the trip, the band needed to reach out for corporate and city sponsorship.
He wrote to Florida’s office of 
tourism, Florida seafood vendors and 16 Fortune 500 companies head-quartered in Florida for donations. In exchange for money, Watkins of-fered advertising in part of a video that will show behind the band at many of its scheduled events.
The band will leave for its nine-
day trip on July 23. 
Despite the cost, Piper is excited 
to take her first international trip and her first trip to the Olympics.
“I’m so excited to represent Gator 
Band and UF on the world stage,” she said.bAnd , from page 1“This is a way to gather in-
formation to make sure you’re 
making the right choices in your 
education.”
Cynthia Sain
academic adviserMastrodicasa
 THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 5
LOCAL
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville Police Depart-
ment has been working for the last 
month to reduce grafﬁ  ti in town.
After a string of artists painted 
tags on local businesses in mid-January, GPD Chief Tony Jones assigned a group from the depart-ment’s gang unit to track and catch grafﬁ  ti artists. Before January, the department did not have a team dedicated to cleaning up grafﬁ  ti.
In one evening, a group caused 
about $100,000 worth of damage to public and private property, said Robert Koehler, a GPD specialty unit lieutenant.
“They were armed to the teeth 
with paint,” he said. 
GPD has arrested 11 artists, in-
cluding three members of a group called the Sons of Grafﬁ  ti, from Jan. 19 to Jan. 24. Koehler said he expects the department to make more arrests in the next couple weeks.
GPD has about 1,000 images of 
vandalism on ﬁ  le, Koehler said, but the unit is still looking for leads on some grafﬁ  ti tags. For a gallery of grafﬁ  tti  images provided by GPD, visit alligator.org.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alliga-
tor.org.Gainesville Police Department cracking down on graffiti
Courtesy to the Alligator
(Left) Grafﬁ  ti appears on a trash bin in the parking lot of The Courtyards apartment complex.
(Above) Grafﬁ  ti covers the wall of a new school, Meadowbrook Elementary, in the 12000 block of North-west 39th Avenue.
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Have you ever been to Satchel’s 
Pizza?
207 TOTAL VOTES43% YES
57% NOWednesday’s question: Are you sad to see XS close?Good Time for Break
Be safe, responsible 
and find time to relax
For many on campus, Friday is the start of a much needed 
Spring Break.
The last few weeks have been filled with a lot of nega-
tivity and crazy election nonsense. To top it off, most of us prob-ably had a midterm or four to take.
So, while it may sound like we are being annoying like mom 
and dad, we want to give everyone a few tips for next week.
First, we encourage you to have fun, but also to take it easy. 
Everyone is busy enough during a regular week with classes, part-time jobs and who knows what else, so there’s no reason to strain yourself over the break.
Sure, it’s fine to go places and do fun things, but leave a few 
days open for “you” time. Catch up on some sleep and relax a little bit.
You deserve it. You’ve been working hard this semester, 
right?
Second, we encourage you to be safe. If you are traveling, 
do a little bit of research about the area you are visiting. For in-stance, if you are going to Cancun or another place like that, you might want to read the news.
While parts of Mexico are safe, other areas have witnessed 
a lot of violence and kidnappings over the past few years. Find out where to go and what to do. You can still be adventurous without being ill-prepared.
This, of course, applies to almost any foreign or faraway land 
you choose to visit.
Finally, and most importantly, know your limits.You know what we’re talking about.If you are inexperienced in dealing with adult beverages, 
take it slow. While a few beers can definitely lead to a fun situ-ation, you do not need massive amounts of alcohol to have a good time.
In college, most people want to remember what happened 
during Spring Break.
College is a time in your life when you are independent. Be-
cause you are not tied to a full-time job, you have the opportu-nity to travel to places you might not ordinarily get to see.
With that in mind, why in the hell would you want that ex-
perience mired with blackouts, alcohol poisoning and horrible hangovers?
They don’t just say this to scare you, but people do take it too 
far, sometimes giving up their life in the process. It happens, but it never has to be the case. People do stupid, avoidable things.
We’re all adults.Let’s show those who think that “we’re not old enough” or 
“we are irresponsible” that we can have fun and enjoy ourselves, without involving the police or paramedics.
Okay, we’re done preaching.Be smart.Be safe.But, most importantly, we want you to have fun. Pop open a 
cold one — if you’re old enough — sit back and relax.
Now’s your chance. After next week is over, it’s back to the 
hustle and bustle of college.Gym features colorful cast of characters
It was my New Year’s resolution to go to the gym five 
days a week, and I accomplished my goal, for the most part. Spring Break body: check. In perfecting the art of 
picking heavy things up and putting them down, though, I learned a few things about the fascinating and intimidating building that is the Southwest Recreation Center.
I’m sure most of us can remember our first visit to the 
Southwest weight room. And unless you were a gym rat in high school, it was a visit most probably characterized by extreme intimidation. As someone who only recently began regularly going to Southwest, I feel particularly qualified to comment on some of the more fascinating creatures that en-ter this unique habitat.
First, you’ve got the most pervasive specimen: the bros. 
Usually seen traveling in packs of two or three, these frat dudes always seem to have mysteriously misplaced their sleeves. Whether they’re wearing matching frat tanks (cute) or just torn shirts, they’re clearly “too frat to care.”
Their established bromance means they often work out 
together. And by that, I mean they watch each other do rep-etitions and wait until it’s their turn. Personally , I don’t get it. I feel awkward enough being judged by strangers for how much weight I can’t lift, let alone having a friend there to stare at me while I struggle.
Then you’ve got the anxious sorority girls. They are most 
often spotted grazing near the leg machines or the light-weight dumbbell area. They , like the bros, travel in packs ranging from three to five. I can’t help but pity them and the look of sheer terror in their mascaraed eyes as they enter the weight room. While the bros are tolerant, these girls know their natural habitat is the cardio area. It’s all I can do not to roll my eyes at the frat guys as they stare the girls up and down as they walk past in their skintight gym clothes.
Less frequent but still prevalent are the buff hipsters. A 
seemingly unexpected combination, they have gotten past the fact that going to the gym is clearly too mainstream. These specimens usually travel alone and can most often be seen wearing offbeat tanks and cut-off jeans or khakis. Some-times sporting obtrusively large “my-music-is-better-than-yours” headphones, they understand that standard white earplugs don’t deliver the sound quality needed to lift a dumbbell.
Then you’ve got the unnatu-
rally huge “do-you-even-go-
here?” weightlifter types. Often looking like they’ve already passed middle age, they have surpassed a level of muscle than can be deemed entirely natural. Not to mention the fact that they have tans that rival those of that weird-orange girl in your class. Often, they are seen wearing black wife beat-ers and sporting that thick weightlifting belt that supports their back and allows them to lift more weight than any God intended. Uh, because that seems like a good idea …
Lastly , there are the loners. This mysterious species of 
gym-goers usually come alone and remain indistinct from the crowd. Bearing standard black gym shorts and a T-shirt, they keep their heads down, discreetly take their drinks from the fountain, quietly observe everyone in between sets and try not to interfere with the intimidating “others.” Not entirely small, not entirely buff, this group is in that odd in-between stage where they want to be as big as the others, but in the meantime, want to remain as anonymous as possible.
As for myself, well, I guess I’m some weird combination 
of them all — sometimes comfortable like the bros, some-times intimidated like the sorority girls, sometimes indif-ferent like the hipsters, but always unaccompanied like the loners. 
So next time you’re at the gym, take some time to look, 
because you never know which animals you’re going to see.
Garrett Bruno is a political science sophomore at UF . His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Garrett Bruno
opinions@alligator.org THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Human compassion vital
It both touches and pains 
my heart to see that a 13-year-
old girl understands the im-portance of human dignity and compassion, but some adults don’t have a concept of the meaning of advancing the hu-man experience.
In Friday’s Alligator, an ar -
ticle was published about the Cinema V erde Environmental Film and Arts Festival and a young girl’s film about a family experiencing homelessness.
As said in the Alligator, “She 
said she wanted to focus her film on human experiences, particularly those of children, because she feels they are often overlooked.
“‘Some people think “save 
the trees” or “save the whales,” but they don’t really think, “save the people,’ she said. ‘We end up with millions of kids that are homeless, and I think that needs to change.’”
Our city , our county , our country and our global com-munity need more people like this girl, Tara-Nicole Azarian. Students have so many oppor -
tunities to make a difference, whether it be doing hands-on work with the Center for Lead-ership and Service, learning about the international com-mitment of the Responsibility to Protect or attending a panel that featured Don Kraus, CEO of Citizens for Global Solutions in Washington, D.C., who made a visit to UF earlier this month to speak to students about what has — and needs to be — done to truly create global solutions to global problems.
If a 13-year-old girl can see 
the value in “save the people,” why can’t we? We have the ed-ucation and the resources to do it — let’s answer the call and do what we can for the world.
Roberta Roberts
Public Relations senior
President and co-founder of 
Human.I.T.Y.
Letter to the Editor
Last week, Zoe Beiner wrote a column advising the 
public to “ignore” Israeli journalist Amira Hass’ lec-ture on Feb. 13 in the Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service. Beiner clearly didn’t get Amira Hass’ message to the world and instead decided to write an article filled with historical fallacies and misinterpretations about the Palestinian-Israeli conflict.
Beiner left the lecture “in shock and frustration” but 
failed to recognize Hass’ frustration at the failed peace talks and continuous violence and injustice in the region.
“My desire to live in Gaza stemmed neither from ad-
venturism nor from insanity but from that dread of being a bystander,” Hass wrote in her book “Drinking the Sea at Gaza.” She talked about her experiences as an Israeli, Jewish woman living in Gaza and how she had rights that Palestinians lacked. But because Beiner wants to just focus on the “facts,” let’s take a closer look at her arguments.
First of all, before 1948, the state of Israel didn’t exist 
and Palestine was a thriving country with an Arab ma-jority. The U.N. proposed a Partition Plan for Palestine in 1947 that would create independent Jewish and Arab states. The Arab League rejected this plan due to the fact that Palestine was a country with an Arab majority. The Arab League argued that creating a Jewish state would violate the rights of Arab Palestinians.
Just imagine if one day the government came to your 
home and decided to partition half of it to a stranger. Would you agree to give up your property?
During the lecture, Hass asked, “What does it mean to 
be implicated in a settler colonial society?” She answered, “It is the knowledge, first of all, that wherever I go, just 60 or 50 years ago, there was a thriving community that used to live there and is now dispersed, dispossessed, invis-ible. It is also the awareness that the privileges that I am showered in as a Jew are being denied for my neighbors and friends in Ramallah or Nablus or Nazareth or Gaza.”
Hass embraced her identity as an Israeli while also 
recognizing the rights of Palestinians. Her talk ultimately shed some light on those who would like to see real peace and real justice in a land where oppression and occupa-tion are a part of everyday life.
Regarding to the Oslo Accords, Beiner decided to ex-
press a biased opinion on the pretense of factual infor -
mation. It’s hard to take Beiner’s column seriously when she called the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) the Palestinian “Labor” Organization, or when she argues that Jordan participated in the 1973 war. Besides that, on Sept. 13, 1993, PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin met in Washington, D.C., and signed the accords in hopes of a peace-ful two-state solution in the future. Amira Hass said Israel 
missed its “golden opportunity” for peace because, in-stead of withdrawing settlements in Palestinian territo-ries, Israel continued to colonize the land.
Twenty years ago, Palestinian officials were more will-
ing to negotiate and agree with Israel as opposed to to-day. This is because Israel didn’t follow through with the agreement and annexed a significant amount of Palestin-ian land.
Beiner mentioned Arafat’s rejection of a two-state so-
lution proposal in 2000 and described the Intifada as a “wave of terrorism.” 
The proposal was rejected because it was one-sided 
and didn’t fairly distribute the land to Palestine. Read the Oslo Accords for yourself; the PLO has recognized Israel, but there isn’t parallel recognition by Israel of a Palestin-ian state.
Also, in September 1995, Israel and the PLO signed the 
Interim Agreement (known as Oslo II) that states: “Nei-ther side shall initiate or take any step that will change the status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip pending the outcome of the permanent status negotiations.”
By continuing development of settlements, Israel not 
only violated the agreement but also signaled to the Pal-estinians that negotiations are futile. The Second Intifada is a direct result of this policy. Therefore, it’s not the PLO that should be blamed for objecting the two-state solu-tion.
From 1993 to 2000, the number of Israeli settlers dou-
bled. Given that, how could one expect the Palestinians to believe that Israel seriously aspired for a two-state solu-tion? Palestinians started to demonstrate and protest for justice. Israel defense forces killed about 300 Palestinians before any Palestinian suicide bombings against civilians occurred. Please refer to www.btselem.org for exact num-bers.
Contrary to Beiner’s accusation, Hass didn’t justify any 
type of violence in her lecture and consistently opposed any arms. She did however say that nonviolent resistance is the best way to overcome oppression and correlated the Palestinian-Israeli conflict to the apartheid in South Af-rica.
To those who argue that Israel is a democracy, it’s only 
a democracy for the Jewish inhabitants of the land. Israel controls the territory between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. In this territory millions of Palestin-ians have no civil rights.
In the West Bank, only the Jews can elect the power that 
controls the country. Only the Jews are free to move back and forth from the West Bank to pre-1967 Israel. Water is allocated disproportionately based on ethnic criteria. There are “Israeli only” streets that would  lead Palestin-ians to be imprisoned if found on them.
These elements made many argue for similarities be-
tween the South African apartheid and Israeli system of control. Even the Arab minority living within Israel is treated as second-class citizens.
The last point I’ll discuss is the separation wall or “se-
curity fence.” While I do agree that the wall has reduced the amount of attacks, it also serves another purpose. Hass described the wall as an “annexation wall.” Hass said, “More than 30 percent of Jerusalem’s Palestinian lands have been confiscated and transferred to the benefit of Jewish settlers.” If you take a look at the map of Israel-Palestine on Israeli human rights organization, Bt’ Selem (www.btselem.org/separation_barrier/map), you’ll see that the wall doesn’t follow the green line. It’s placed in strategic locations that cut off large portions of Palestin-ian land, which results in Israeli annexation of the land and new settlement building.
All in all, Hass came to UF in order to provide a dif-
ferent perspective on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. We constantly hear the one-sided arguments in the media about Palestinians being “terrorists” and unwilling to ac-cept Israel.
The fact, is Israel is unwilling to accept Palestine as 
a state. Palestinians have lived under Israeli occupation for over 60 years now. Israel is legally a state through the U.N., and there’s no room to say, “Israel needs to be re-moved.”
What we can say is Israel needs to restore the human 
rights of Palestinians, remove the separation wall along with the checkpoints and allow Palestinians the right to return to their homes and give reparations to the dis-placed refugees.
Ideally, I’d love to see a thriving Israel alongside a 
thriving Palestine. We’re all humans, and we deserve to be treated as such. Hass taught me that there’s still hope for peace, but only with real justice.
Mohammad Tina is a food science and human nutrition 
senior and the president of Students for Justice in Palestine at UF.
Israeli journalist’s message frustration, not justification of violenceGuest column
Mohammed Tina
Speaking OuttheAvenue    THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
Alexander McQueen’s posthumous collection shown at LFW: 
London Fashion Week honored McQueen and his new fashion line, 
McQ. Read about the show’s dramatic details on page 10. Bonnaroo 2012 is coming this June: 
Prepare yourself for what to expect from this year’s Bonnaroo music festival/shenanigans on page 12. Who took home an Oscar this past Sunday? Check out page 9 for all the details. 
DANA BURKE and LISA RUDERMAN
Despite being around for decades, one trend that will 
never go out of style is the braid. With a simple twist of the hair, a complicated look can be achieved.  While 
you’re out in the blistering sun this Spring Break season, try a fancy, intertwined hairdo that will keep your hair out of your face (for optimal skin tanning exposure, obviously) without you looking like a hot mess.  Even if you don’t pair these lovely looks for locks with a bathing suit, these hair-styles are ready to rage no matter what Spring Break has in store.
Like a dream within a dream, the inception braid is the 
braid within a braid that will leave people on a cliffhanger wondering how you did it.  Although it looks elaborate, this easy-to-do mane sensation will create the illusion that you’re a braiding expert with more tricks up your sleeve than Leon-ardo DiCaprio.
Step one:  Break your hair into three sections, as with a 
normal braid.
(If you didn’t play with dolls as a kid and don’t know 
how to braid, here’s a quick how-to: separate hair into three sections and alternate wrapping outside sections under to-wards the center, swapping with the middle section.  Alter-nate sides and repeat until you run out of hair. Secure with 
a hair tie.)
Step two: Braid one of the three sections as a normal 
three-strand braid. Secure with a small hair band.
Step three : Continue with the whole braid as usual, 
with one of the three sections pre-braided from step two. 
Secure with a hair tie.
The fishtail braid, also known as the herringbone braid, 
looks like an intricate basket weave connected down the cen-ter, similar to a herringbone pattern or the bones of a fishtail, hence the name. After countless hours of activity, this braid still looks adorable when it’s all messed up, perfect for UF spring breakers who are known to get a little wild.
Step one:  Separate the hair into two sections, as opposed 
to the normal three.
Step two: Grab a strand of hair from the back of one sec-
tion and bring it around the outside to the front, and over to the other section.  
Step three:  Repeat from the other section, wrapping a 
piece of hair from the back to the front, across to the other section of hair.  
Step four: Repeat down hair.  Secure with a hair tie. For 
a messy effect from the start, pull outward on the braid at the top after securing to give more volume.
Also known as a cascade braid, the waterfall braid is both 
unique and feminine, and one of the newest trends to try on your tresses. Using the same technique as a French braid, this style sweeps across the back of the head leaving little pieces of hair with a “falling” look.  
Step one:  Begin with a small, standard three-strand 
braid at the desired position of the braid. (This is typically on one side of the crown, left or right. If you have bangs, leave them down and start the braid where longer strands begin.)
Step two:  After a few interlacing patterns, drop the bot-
tom strand to create the waterfall effect.
Step three:  Grab hair in the desired direction of the 
braid, moving across the crown of the head after every two braiding patterns, similar to a French braid. Continue to drop the bottom piece after two weaves, which is made up for by grabbing the hair at the top.
Step four:  To finish the braid, stop picking up new 
strands and continue the braid as normal. Secure with a hair band or a pretty clip for a decorative touch.Fifth Avenue Fashion: Beach-ready braidsfashion
The double rainbow’s got nothing on this double Incep-
tion braid. “Project” this one on yourself!
Dana Burke / Alligator 
Practice your braiding technique on a willing friend over 
spring break!
The Inception BraidThe Fishtail Braid
The Waterfall BraidMICHELLE PROVENZANO
Avenue Writer
Hollywood’s finest stepped away 
from the bright lights of the sound 
stages for the most important event of the year for silver screen enthusi-asts — the Oscars.
The Oscars was the final film 
achievement award show of this year’s awards season. Like other awards shows, the night began with an hour-long look at the stars on the red carpet, asking the famous ques-tion, “Who are you wearing?”
“Bridesmades” star Kristen Wiig 
commented on what she hoped to see in Billy Crystal’s opening as host for the prestigious night: “I’m hoping he does something jazzy .” Crystal didn’t disappoint Wiig as he started the night with a small musi-cal number and a comedic film in-troduction. A variety of jokes were peppered in throughout the night.
Aside from the jokes and com-
mentaries, all of the stars in atten-dance could agree that the Oscars is a one-of-a-kind night that represents all of the creativity and hard work that makes an exceptionally great film.
All awards season long, “The 
Artist” created a huge buzz over its surprising wins for Best Picture at a variety of film festivals, including the Golden Globes, Broadcast Film Critics Association Awards and the BAFTA Awards. 
When it came to the Oscars, “The 
Artist” gave every film a run for its money . Literally . “The Artist” won Best Picture, beating out Martin Scorsese’s “Hugo,” which had more nominations than “The Artist.”
In reality , it is no surprise that 
“The Artist” had such a momentous impact on the awards scene, with its silent film approach, depth of storyline and depth of acting tech-niques. “The Artist” is the first silent and foreign film that has won the Oscar for Best Picture in more than 80 years.
“The Artist” depicts film’s golden 
age of silence and black and white pictures, and managed to win in the modern day dominated by special effects. The elaborate production focusing on the art of acting, cin-ematography and all other vital film techniques allowed film enthusiasts to take a step back in time to power -
ful films that go beyond sound and effects.
In addition to Best Picture, “The 
Artist” took home awards for Best Costume Design, thanks to Mark Bridges; Best Original Score, by Lu-dovic Bource; Best Director, Michael Hazanavicius; and Best Actor, Jean Dujardin.
Dujardin’s win was astonishing 
for many , as the French actor beat out big names like Brad Pitt, George Clooney, Gary Oldman and Demian Bichir. 
Dujardin brought life to the Os-
car stage, passionately thanking ev-eryone for his win and shouting in French with a joyous smile on his face.
It may have been “The Artist” 
who stole the night away, but Scors-ese’s “Hugo” put up a tough fight for the wins in some of the smaller 
categories of the night, including Best Cinematog-raphy, with a nod to Robert Richard-son; Best Art Di-rection, by Dante Ferretti and Fran-cesca Lo Schiavo; 
Best Sound Editing and Sound Mix-ing, under the direction of Philip Stockton, Eugene Gearty, Tom Fleis-chman and John Midgley; and Best Visual Effects, done collaboratively by Rob Legato, Josh Williams, Ben Grossmann and Alex Henning.
The audience lept to its feet with 
applause as Colin Firth announced Meryl Streep as the winner of Best Actress in a Leading Role for her performance as Britain’s Margret Thatcher in “The Iron Lady.”
Streep came to the stage, humble 
about her win. “I want to thank my colleagues, since I understand that I will never be up here again,” Streep said with tears in her eyes. “This is an honor, but what counts the most to me are the friendships and the love and the sheer joy we have shared making movies together.”
It is almost understood within the large community of actors and actresses that Streep is more than deserving of the awards she is nomi-nated for. Her strength as an actress has been applauded by so many that no one would second-guess her win for Best Actress.
Streep also thanked her make-
up artist, J. Roy Helland, for being there throughout her career. Hel-land, along with Mark Coulier, won the Oscar for Best Makeup for their work in “The Iron Lady .” 
This is Streep’s third Oscar win 
out of her total 17 nominations.
Another crowd-pleaser of the 
night, complete with a standing ova-tion, was for Best Supporting Actress winner Octavia Spencer for her role as Minnie in “The Help.”
Spencer came to the stage in tears, 
unbelieving of her win and rushing through with breathy thank yous for her first Oscar win as an actress.
Christopher Plummer won Best 
Actor in a Supporting Role for the film “Beginners.” 
Plummer is no stranger to great 
acting, as the 82-year-old actor por -
tayed Captain V on Trapp in the classic film “The Sound of Music” early in his career. Plummer is now the oldest actor to receive an Oscar award.
Past Oscar winner Woody Al-
len won the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay for “Midnight in Paris.”
Allen is infamous for not showing 
up to award shows, but he is consis-tently recognized by the Academy for his exceptional screenplays and for his films overall.
“The Descendants” made up for 
its losses for Best Picture and Best Actor with its win for Best Adapted Screenplay, recognizing Alexander Payne for his written work rather than his directorial work.
“The Girl with the Dragon Tat-
too” may have lost its biggest award nomination of Rooney Mara for Best Actress in a Leading Role, but came through with the win of Best Film Editing, thanks to Kirk Baxter and Angus Wall. 
“Iran, A Separation,” gained the 
Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, an outstanding achievement. 
The underdog football documen-tary , “Undefeated,” won for Best Documentary Feature, beating out culturally-serious contenders 
“Saving Face,” the controversial 
documentary on love outside cul-tural norms, won the Oscar for Best Documentary Short.
Family-favorite “Rango” snatched 
up the Oscar for Best Animated Film, while “The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore” won for Best Animated Short Film. 
A tale of friendship overcoming 
cultural issues, “The Shore” won the Oscar for Best Live Action Short Film.
A first in Oscar history , there 
were only two nominated songs for Best Original Song: “Man or Mup-pet” from “The Muppets” and “Real in Rio” from “Rio.” 
“Man or Muppet” won the Os-
car, recognizing Bret McKenzie from Flight of the Concords for the music and lyrics of the song.
Like many past Oscar years, 
this year’s awards had consistently outstanding nominees, with films like “The Help,” “My Week With Marilyn,” “Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close,” “Midnight in Paris,” “Moneyball,” “The Tree of Life,” “The Descendants” and “War Horse.” 
More coverage on the Oscar 
nominations and wins can be found at www.oscar.go.com, along with photos and videos from the night. THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Photo courtesy the New Zealand Herald
“Conchord” Bret McKenzie arrives at the Oscars ready to have some 
fun and take home an award.
Oscar round-up: ‘The Artist’ surpasses American films
KAY BEA
Avenue Columnist
There is a little dog that lives in my apartment complex 
that is driving me absolutely, positively crazy.  Although I have never laid eyes on this beast, I can hear it. Oh, how 
I hear this dog. My guess is that it is a tiny thing, a “toy” some-thing or other, because from the sound of its bark — no, wait, bark is too strong of a word — from the sound of its yip-yip-yappy-yip, there is no way the creature has a vocal box larger than a dime. Yet the shrill, pulsating, random yelps it transmits throughout the morning, afternoon, evening and late night hours are so ridiculously obnoxious, this ammunition gives in-furiating proof that a bark is so much stronger than a bite. Seri-ously, this dog needs to shut the hell up. But it doesn’t, it hasn’t for months, and its selfish owner does not care about how his or her pet affects the rest of the neighborhood. As a result, I have waged war with the monster. Fear this wrath.
For the record, I would like to state that I also have a dog. In 
fact, I rescued my pooch from death row, so don’t even think about pinning me with some anti-canine classification. In any case, I’ll tell you what — there is no way I would permit my dog to bother my neighbors all day long. The matter falls under the realm of courtesy and respect for 
others. If you cannot properly train and/or give your dog ad-equate attention, then you shouldn’t own one. Period.     
Every time I hear this dog yip, my blood begins to boil. And 
when my blood begins to boil, my mind starts to think about other things in my life that are less than satisfactory . The latest vexation? An argument I recently had.
Last week I got into a nasty , nasty fight with someone. It 
was one of those fights where physical violence was absent, but verbal vomit hit maximum capacity. There were tears, name-calling, cutthroat ridicule and an unleashing of frustrations that had been suppressed for years. A battle that was all bark and no bite, this one called for the works.  
For privacy’s sake, neither the person with whom I fought, 
nor the reason for the battle will be revealed, as they are not relevant. What is important is this: The person with whom I fought is someone who has been incredibly important to me throughout my entire life and who has become closer to me over the last few years than they ever had before. Now we are not on speaking terms, and it feels pretty catastrophic.  
But the worst part about this situation is that even with the 
provided background information, I’m still not at a point where I’m ready to try and put things back together. In fact, the more I think about the fight, the angrier I become. It’s almost as if the reflection of the incident is like the sound of my neighbor’s barking dog: persistent, disheartening and uncontrollable.
My fear — and it is a fear — is that my pride will never 
mend, and I will lose the relationship I had with this person for good. I don’t want that to happen, just like I don’t want any-thing bad to happen to the yappy pooch (or even its owner.) I just want things to go back to being peaceful, or at least the closer semblance of peace that was present before all hit the fan.
Never before has the expression “agree to disagree” felt 
more relevant. Again, this is where the fear comes in. What happens if I make a call to make amends, only to find that I’m not really ready to apologize for certain things said? 
What if admitting hurt to words received is spoken with-
out eloquence, thereby digging the already present hole into a six-foot trench from whence one cannot escape? I realize the answer is obvious (“You’ll never know unless you try”), but sometimes even the most apparent plans are the hardest to im-plicate.  
Why can’t that dog just stop barking? Better yet, why can’t 
I just accept the fault for what it is, and allow myself to move forward?
The Art of Flying Solo, Topic 6: Make Up or Break Updating  10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
NATALIA SIEUKARAN
Avenue Writer
London Fashion Week recently show-
cased the industry’s most iconic brands, 
including the debut of Alexander Mc-Queen’s sister line, McQ. As great as it was, it ultimately reminded us, yet again, that one of the best designers of all time is no longer here.
Lee Alexander McQueen was the heart 
and soul of UK fashion. His signature dark theatrical designs were risque and often challenged other modern designers’ aes-thetics so much that it was almost anar -
chic. His collections were some of the most controversial, yet highly coveted, looks.
At 16, the designer dropped out of 
school for a tailoring apprenticeship with Savile Row tailors Anderson & Shepherd. The small tailoring company provided the young McQueen with the knowledge and skills to construct clothes. During his time there, he became known for his antics, such as scribbling graffiti into the linings of multiple suits for the King-to-be of Eng-land, Prince Charles. The acts dubbed him the rebel of Savile Row.
After that, at the age of 20, McQueen 
was hired by fellow Savile Row-trained tailor, Koji Tatsuno. A year later, he was Milan-bound for the position as Romeo Gigli’s design assistant. Even though he was getting a lot of hands-on experience that most rookie designers would sell their arms for, when he moved back to London, McQueen eventually enrolled in Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design’s Masters Program in Fashion Design.
His claim to fame was his graduation 
collection being bought by the late Isabella Blow, an eccentric designer. In 1994, he started the Alexander McQueen label and, as they say, the rest was fashion history.  One of the early highlights of his newly formed brand was the 1995 collection titled “Highland Rape.” Many thought this title suggested McQueen was a mi-sogynist, when in reality it was symbolic of England’s “rape” on his home country, Scotland.
A couple of years later, he landed a gig 
replacing John Galliano as head designer director for Givenchy. The five-year ten-ure consisted of him dismissing the label’s founder Hubert de Givenchy as irrelevant, bombing the first collection and using double amputee model Aimee Mullins for a show. 
He eventually garnered the name 
L’Enfant Terrible, the terrible child, for fashion, and he indeed was. McQueen just couldn’t shake off the rebellious streak from his Savile days.
As the years went on, the theatrical 
designer began to be seen as less terrible and more of a genius in the public eye. His friends and clients included the Icelandic singer Björk and Lady Gaga, whose “Bad Romance” single played during his spring 2010 collection, along with many others.
Two years ago, the designer took his 
own life and was pronounced dead on Feb. 11, 2010, one week after his mother, who was his best friend, passed away. Later that day in New York, the McQ collection was supposed to show, but it was can-celed. When looking back at the last collec-tion before his death, the eerie, death-like motifs found in the designs become more apparent.
Since then, his assistant, Sarah Burton, has taken over as head creative director and has done the brand justice with de-sign stints like designing Kate Middleton’s wedding dress for the royal wedding.
Her spot was sealed last year in Paris 
for the ready-to-wear spring collection that featured a mystical, aquatic collection that showed aspects of McQueen’s aes-thetic style including the lace masks, the impeccable tailoring and the drama.
The styles of the assistant and the late 
designer were so similar that it was as if McQueen hadn’t died. Editor-in-chief of French Vogue, Emmanuelle Alt, bowed to Burton, literally.
This past Feb. 11 marked the second 
anniversary of the designer’s death and a month of fall’s ready-to-wear 2012 col-lections in New York, London, Milan and 
Paris, respectively.
London Fashion Week 
was Feb. 17 to 22, which was six days of some of fashion’s greatest names presenting their highly anticipated collections. 
The most anticipated was the 8 p.m. show (3 p.m. in the US): McQ’s first catwalk pre-sentation.
Not only was it the brand’s first cat-
walk, but it was a collection that was sup-posed to premier two years ago. The event was highly anticipated and was special since fans had the opportunity to stream the show live on Facebook.
This was fashion history and it allowed 
all fans to witness the majestic event. Twit-ter was bombarded by fashion figures and fans alike who were all excited to see what Sarah Burton had come up with.
The McQ 2012 ready-to-wear collection was true to McQueen. The brand is aimed toward a younger audience and features both menswear and women’s clothing. Burton kept classic pieces such as military trench coats, well-tailored leather ensem-bles and Scottish plaid dresses with mesh on top and plenty of drama.
In addition, the new designs featured 
leaf motifs emblazoned onto to the velvet dresses and coats and multi-colored flow-ers subdued by dark tulle. The men’s en-sembles were sharp and clean with long trench coats thrown over.
The show had a dark eerie ambiance, 
and the theatrics were there as shown by the leaves that blanketed the runway floor and the trees that surrounded it. The am-bience was felt at the event and was even detectable through Facebook’s streaming.
The ending was majestic, as model Kris-
ten McMenamy walked out in a beautiful, long white tulle gown. When she turned, she grabbed a rope that lead back into an illuminated runway back that featured a cabin.
Just when you think that the show is 
over, a light flickers on the cabin revealing writing that says “Core Cabin” and catchy dance music that puts dubstep to shame comes on, something that McQueen him-self would have done.
It seems like the fashion world was put 
at ease for the future of McQ, as its debut set a precedence for more upcoming col-lections that will be just as great. More im-portantly, it made sure to hold onto what McQueen himself believed in. We still get to keep pieces of the designer as he be-comes immortalized through the brand’s designs. 
Long live McQueen.
Alexander McQueen honored at London Fashion Week
 THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
MICHAEL NEWMAN
Avenue Writer
When I first listened to “Anna 
Sun,” the new three-song EP from 
Cincinnati, Ohio’s Walk The Moon, the straightforward melodic hooks sounded almost timeless, as if the band were floating around in a vac-uum placed somewhere between 1986 and 2012. The driving, shuf-fling drumbeats sometimes give a sense of early house music, while at other times the pummeling tom-toms give a hair metal, arena rock sensibility . The rhythm guitars place them firmly in the realm of The Strokes-influenced indie rock territory , but they’re electronically filtered and tweaked to morph into something else entirely before you can realize it. The bass drives the pace along at a new-wavy clip, and the lead guitar and synthesizer trade straightforward melodic lines that cut through the confident instru-mental backdrop to give context to the indie-dance grooves throughout the tracks.
The first song, “Tightrope,” 
doesn’t waste time as it jumps right into its driving beat and cutting ar -
peggios. The song moves rapidly toward its chorus, filled with “ohs” and “ahs” before it holds back the rhythm section during the bridge and flows seamlessly into the next track. The second song and title track, “Anna Sun,” allows a whooshing synthesizer to build suspense before it breaks into a similar groove.
Walk the Moon released a video of the song that starts with grain-fil-tered digital footage of the sky and an empty field with a closet door inexplicably placed in the plain. The camera takes us through the door and into what is simultaneously the hippest, most wholesome and most depressing looking indie-rock house show I’ve ever seen. The lead vocal-ist leads the crowd through the door where they have a wet paint party , complete with an ultra-hip choreog-raphy sequence peppered with just a hint of gender-bending.
The closing track, “Next in Line,” 
keeps the pace with a Pixies-esque delay filtered through the rhythm guitar and more forward-moving, yet dancy, bass and synthesizer.
Walk The Moon sounds confi-
dent on its major label debut, and the band has a lot of fun with its up-beat, happy tunes. At three tracks, this EP is short enough not to wear out its welcome while still letting the band show its chops musically . The only thing the band doesn’t seem quite so sure about yet is the vocals, which fall squarely and haphazard-ly in the indie rock male standard: high pitched, suburban, unsure if it values monogamy or casual sex and possibly auto-tuned at the chorus. 
The quality of the vocals suggest 
a potential that isn’t quite reached on this EP , and the lyrics reflect that. As the band moves forward and de-cides what might be the best ratio of pop to rock, things will probably even out; until then, listeners will have to overlook almost painful lyr -
ics such as, “We got no money but we got heart/We’re gonna rattle this ghost town/We’re gonna rattle this scene.” But again, clocking in at fewer than 15 minutes, none of this has a chance to become overbearing. The three tracks move at a comfort-able and upbeat pace. 
This EP plays like a teaser, and 
hopefully the band’s first album will give it a little room to sprawl out and take its time.
Walk The Moon is currently 
on a North American tour with Young the Giant and Grouplove. Unfortunately, they won’t be stop-ping through Florida, but it’s play-ing a show in Atlanta on March 10. The video for “Anna Sun” can be streamed through VEVO, and the EP is available digitally , in stores and through Spotify.
Take a listen to Walk the Moon’s newest EP ‘Anna Sun’
musicERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
Tucked away in the lush fields of Tennessee, 80,000 
music fans gather annually for four days of music, art and fresh air. Bonnaroo, a yearly music festival 
held on a 700-acre farm in Manchester, Tenn., returns this year to what might be more success than the festival has ever seen.
From June 7 to 10, campers will experience a modern-
day Woodstock. Living out of tents and vans, lacking proper showers, eating crackers as if they were meals and drinking anything but water is the Bonnaroo way.
Since its creation in 2002, the best part of Bonnaroo 
— and the reason that so many people drive out to the middle of nowhere — is the musical acts. In the past, the festival has hosted acts such as Pearl Jam, The Police, Bob Dylan, The Flaming Lips, Jay-Z and Stevie Wonder. This year will be no different.
The stellar lineup this year includes recent Grammy 
winners Bon Iver and Radiohead, Red Hot Chili Peppers, The Kooks, The Beach Boys, The Shins, Foster the People, Skrillex, Feist, The Roots and Young the Giant, among others. This year’s lineup also features comedian Aziz Ansari.
Tickets to the concert start at $209.50 and go up to 
$259.50. Prices vary depending on when the ticket is pur -
chased. However, as of Feb. 25 the lower price levels have completely sold out. Included in the price of each ticket is parking and a camping spot for one car.
Allison Cowett, an 18-year-old freshman psychology 
major, will be attending the festival for the second time.
Cowett and her friends will be completing their road 
trip with a pit-stop in Georgia and hours of waiting in traffic to get into the campgrounds.
“The traffic is unbelievable,” she said. “It took us hours to actually get into the festival, but once you get there it is so surreal.”
Though Cowett has yet to buy her tickets, she says she 
plans on doing so soon because of how quickly tickets sold out last year.
“This sounds corny, but it’s an escape from reality. It’s 
four days of awesome music and great friends,” she said.
James Fray, a 19-year-old exploratory major, will be at-
tending Bonnaroo for the first time. He says he is most looking forward to “the location and people” because they “are so down to earth.”
One thing that makes Bonnaroo different from other 
music festivals is that it is literally down to earth. Bon-narroo promotes economically friendly ideals among its festival-goers. It encourages attendees to carpool to the show and maintain eco-friendly practices during their time spent in Manchester. People who attend the festival are even offered free fresh-drilled water, straight out of wells from the campgrounds.
Though this festival may sound like a whole bunch of 
hippies out in the middle of nowhere — and honestly, that isn’t too far off — Bonnaroo is much more than that. The campgrounds surrounding the 10 main stages become transformed into the hustle and bustle of a city. 
The festival’s facilities include a general store, ATMs, 
craft vendors, art installations, medical tents and even a cinema tent, which are all monitored by Bonnaroo Am-bassadors who basically serve as RAs for the living com-munity.
Bonnaroo’s website, www.bonnaroo.com, claims it 
isn’t a festival, it’s a “spirit.” Based on the way campers flock to Tennessee to revel in the sun, the heat, the music, the greenery and the uncleanliness, the Bonnaroo experi-ence certainly seems spirited indeed.12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
Photo courtesy of Bonnaroo
Get ready for the whimsy that is Bonnaroo; it’s a time to enjoy good music with good friends.
Photo courtesy of Bonnaroo
2011’s Bonnaroo festival marked its 10th anniversary, and the arch donned a giant feathered hat to celebrate.
Bonnaroo music festival brings the heat ... and the sweatmusic
Photo courtesy of Bonnaroo
Audiences can get pretty crowded - take health and 
safety precautions, festival friends.“This sounds corny, but it’s an escape from re-
ality. It’s four days of awesome music and great 
friends.”
Allison Cowett
UF freshmanTHURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
Furn. 1BR/1BA in a 4/4 with 3 other girls.
$350/mo. utilities included, Countryside Condos. avl. Mar 1. Jim -cell 305-664-1680, work 305-852-4044.   3-2-12-5-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Only $1149! Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave. Across from Law School
$1650 - Special spring rate. 4BR/2BA
W/D, DW, Cent AC/Heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-30-12-53-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2BR/1BA Sun Key units starting at $550
2BR/1.5BA Sun Harbor units starting at $575
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    3-30-12-52-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   3-21-12-35-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   3-30-12-44-2
Trend's Student Rentals of the Month!
Biven's North - Huge 3BR Lakefront
The Lofts - 3BR condo on Univ Ave
Near Law School - 3/2 1,907 sf
Text "Trend" to 313131
Trend4Rent.com
4-25-74-2SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor units $525
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
1bed/1bath units starting at $475
2bed/2bath units starting at $550
Reduced Deposits for Full Time Grads!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720/352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
2BR2BA  Condo  in Turkey Creek
Carpet, Dishwasher, Laundry Hkups,Close to Alachua & Gainesville 11426 NW 67th Terrace  $800/Mo  
2BR 1BA Garage Apt in Duckpond Area
Wood Floors, Laundry, Central H & Air726 NE 4th Street $800 /Mo
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF, 
Carpet, Central H & Air, CarpetLaundry., Inclds Wtr and Swg. $800/MoCan reserve for Summer or Fall now.Grad II 1236 SW 4th Avenue
2BR 1BA Apt Robert Obrien Apts
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat Gas HtNear Sams Club/Walmart  $500/Mo2901 NW 14th Street
2BR 1BA House in Oaks of Kanapaha
4845 SW 57th Drive $725/MoCarpet, Central H & Air, Laundry hkupsOff Archer Rd. 
Effeciency across from UF Stadium
2 Rooms, no kitchen, just Frig and sinkshared bathroom.  Most people bring in a hotplate or microwave $295/Mo 3-2-12-14-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available NOW.REDUCED to $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183   3-14-12-20-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
ONE Block to UF-Available 8/1/2012-2/2.5 
bath townhouse,w,d,dishwsh, guaranteed parking, wood floors VERY cute-1017 SW 1st Avenue www.forrentgainesville.com or 514-4915. Only 3 units remain!!!    3-14-12-20-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 3-12-11-45-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
$19.99 to sign and $100 credit
4/4’s starting @ $329
Text “SANTAFE” to 47464 for more!
Now Leasing for FALL!
4-25-12-43-2
Large Homes in NW For RENT
4-7 bdrm $1600 - $2.5K/mo (~$400/room)
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
3-13-12-10-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099       3-13-12-10-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
               ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100               ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500               ●/3 house 3514 nw 7 pl $1500               ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15003-12-12-8-2
1.5 miles to UF in NW Gville. Luxury 2bd/2ba 
condo in small community: walk-in closets, W/D, vaulted ceilings, balcony, 1410 sqft. Built 2006. $950/month. Pets OK. 359-1112 or katewallis83@yahoo.com. Avail. March 1    3-21-12-15-2.
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    3-29-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    3-29-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   3-29-12-20-2
Very vice 3/3 Rockwood $800/m
lg bedroom, closet and nice bathClose to UF, I-75 and bus routesall appliance inc(washer & dryer)Call Jared at (941)737-6997   3-19-12-12-2
4BR/4BA Beautifully Renovated condo spa-
cious kitchen, living area, and bedrooms par-tially furnished. W/D in unit. Great bus rts ten min to UF & shopping. $325/ room. Must rent all rooms at same time. Call(941)-232-1960    4-13-12-31-2
$1100, 4BR/2BA, new house on quiet dead-
end. Near UF, Shands & shopping. 1800 sq ft w/ 2 very large BRs. Tile floors, vaulted ceilings, wood cabinets, W/D, DW. Available now. 386-462-7881    3-2-12-5-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-2-12-34-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
1116 SW 2nd Avenue,$417 Per/R ,3Bd/2Bth 
Duplex avail, from March-July. Group or indi-vidual Sublease avail. Spacious Living Area and Bedrooms are furnished. Stove Top, Oven, Washer/ Dryer. 2 blocks from campus. R.Espinosa05@Gmail.com, 786-246-2541    3-2-12-2-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
SHARE RENT FREE
2BR/2BA furnished apt near Shands & UF in exchange for P/T help for male lung trans-plant patient. Must drive, be dependable, be available nights. Nursing experience/in-terest in transplants preferred. References required. Call 727-643-8002 (cell).    3-12-12-4-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
 THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I Buy Cars & Trucks
★ Call Anytime ★ 352-443-1100
3-13-12-20-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-1297 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $699902 TOYOTA CAMRY $699904 CHEVY ASTRO $6999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
04 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $799902 HONDA ODYSSEY $799901 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999352-375-9090    4-25-65-1205 DODGE DURANGO $999905 FORD F150 $10,99906 SATURN ION $11,99907 FORD MUSTANG $12,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  3-12-12-74-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
We have the following
full and part time positions:●Tech Support Rep●Software Developer●Linux Administrator●Admin Asst●ACT/SAT Coordinator●Video Tech●Aviation Sales●Accounting EditorPlease complete an online application at www.gleim.com/employment.     3-2-12-15-14
Sales Asst/Customer Svc Rep
Apply in person at
Tomlinson Motor Company, 3580 N Main St$10/hr, part time 15-20 hrs/wk - flexible.     3-15-12-16-14
SOLUTIONS BRIDAL DESIGNER HOUSE
Part-time Stylist Position
Call 352-367-0070 for details
E-mail resume in .pdf format to
cherish@solutionsbridal.com
3-2-7-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    3-1-12-10-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer day camp pro-gram. Positions in the camp are available in our Pre-Kindergarten, Kindergarten, and our elementary school age day camps offered at Oak Hall. A total of 8 FT and PT counselor positions plus 2 FT Head Counselor positions are available for the summer. Individuals for the day camp should be available to work daily from June 11-July 27. Interested ap-plicants should submit a resume to Maggie Martin via e-mail at mmartin@oakhall.org by March 16th. Interview information regarding group interview on March 17th will be sent out upon receipt.   3-16-12-15-14
!!ATTN SMOKERS!! You're needed to par-
ticipate in a study conducted by the UF Smoking Lab assessing effects of exercise on cravings, withdrawal, and/or smoking. Compensation provided!! Call 336-406-3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    3-23-19-14Piano accompanist to play song for worship 
services as well as accompanying choir. Wednesday Choir rehearsal attendance is mandatory as well as Sunday morning wor-ship. Email pastorharry@celebrationgnv.org   3-1-12-7-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    3-20-12-14-14
ATTORNEY WITH MINIMUM TWO YEARS 
EXPERIENCE IN ESTATE PLANNING & BUSINESS LAW wanted for prestigious Sarasota law firm. Please send resume to sarasotalaw@yahoo.com    4-11-12-30-14
SUMMER JOBS: Recreation Camp 
Counselors/Supervisors for summer recre-
ation program 6/11/12-8/03/12 for children ages 5-14.  WSI/Lifeguard and Maintenance Aides (5/12-9/12).  Exp desirable.  City of Plantation (west of Ft Lauderdale) 400 NW 73 Ave, Plantation, FL  33317 orwww.plantation.org to download application    3-2-12-6-14.
Leasing Agent  FT
Friendly, energetic person. Exp. preferred.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Must be avail. weekend. Apply in person
Spyglass Apts. 701 SW 62nd Blvd.     DFWP
4-25-12-35-14
Info Tech, Inc. - Info Tech, Inc. is a mar
ket leader in software for infrastructure
construction management. Please visit
our website to apply for open positions:
http://www.infotechfl.com/apply
3-21-12-5-14
YARD WORK & MARKETING TRAINING 
POSTION. College grad, ties to Gainesville, good transportation. Willing to labor & learn unique property management & shipping business. Leads to exec marketing position 352-316-6696    3-12-12-5-14
Nanny/Tutor wanted for 2 boys 9 & 11. 
Non-traditional or grad student with child care experience. Education or counseling majors preferred. Pick-up from school, help with homework. M-Th 3-5pm. $10-$15/hr. Call Stacey 352.256.9757    3-2-4-14
INTERESTED IN MEDICAL TRANSPLANTS? 
Lung transplant patient needs P/T help. Must drive, be dependable, references required. Pays $10/hr, but great experience. Call 727-643-8002 (cell)    3-12-12-4-14
Legal Assistant needed for immigration law 
firm, 20 - 40 hrs per week. Will train right per-son. Spanish-English a plus. Email resume to: robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.   3-13-12-5-14 
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! 
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office,
Rockwall, Cheer, Dance, Clean/Maint., 
Drivers, B-day Parties, Comm. Events. Visit 
suncountrysports.com/jobs.html for info and to 
download our required application today!
3-16-12-5-14
Personal/office assistant needed 20hrs/week 
in midtown-gainesville area.demanding but flexible work.organization and multitasking is a must, as well as reliable transport & laptop. submit application to c.morales@gmail.com    3-14-12-5-14
Nanny needed, 5 days, 2-7pm, NW G'ville, 
drive my girls 10-15 our car, homework and house help too. Dependable, good driving record & Refs.masonwoodorchids@hotmail.com     3-2-2-14
SLEEP CENTER SUPERSTORES is hiring 
forPT/FT Sales & Delivery positions.Applicants must be dependable, honest,personable & self-motivated.Must apply in person, no phone calls.$7.31-$10/hour plus incentives.www.GainesvilleSleepCenter.com   3-14-12-5-14PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and 
Reliable 371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G    3-30-17-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481    3-21-12-10-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    3-23-12-20-15
I setup home based franchises that sell 
upper end nutritional products and there is significant income potential. Give me 20 min of your time to go over options with you. www.drjbgraham.myqivana.com or (855) 4-QIVANA   3-2-5-15
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
GOOD EARTH GUIDE DOGS-NEWBERRY
● Change a life.● Dogs available.● Interns needed.352-222-5912      3-14-10-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
World Traveler wanted. Seeking male/fe-
male interested in experiencing new cultures, 
ancient art, historic sights, & exotic cuisine - all while making lasting friendships on an amazing European adventure this summer. See a free trip to Europe in your future? Visit contiki.com/amazing.   3-1-12-1-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Special February and March Rates- $99 
Advanced Cardiac Life Support and $35 Basic Life Support(BLS)(CPR).American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.    3-20-12-18-16
HYPNOSIS $23.95
quit smoking, diet, sleep better, stress, memory improvement, and test anxiety. go to www.hypnosisclassestoday.com for info and pre-pay    3-21-12-10-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
VIBRAM FIVE FINGERS
Extensive selection of Vibram Five Fingers 
shoes - Many styles on sale right now. If you haven't tried them you really should! LloydClarkeSports.com. Just 1 mile north of UF on 13 St.     3-2-8-18
FLIP FLOPS GALORE
Excellent selection of flip flops - many on 
sale now - Reef, Teva, Sanuk, Roxy, Chaco,  Q.S. - Spring Break Necessity! Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.   3-2-8-18
FREE GAIT ANALYSIS
Come run on our treadmill and let us fit you 
right for your next running shoes. 36 years locally owned. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.    3-2-8-18
SHOP LOCAL & ONLINE
NEED ATHLETIC GEAR, SHOES, SANDALS & other casual wear but want parents to buy for you? Our entire store is online with local pickup available. Free shipping too! Find us on facebook. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.     3-2-8-18
THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Gators Pro Day
UF will be holding its annual Pro Day on March 13 
inside Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, and the event will be open to the public. It begins at 10:30 a.m.Women’s hoops receives recognition
After excelling this season with an SEC-leading 14 double-doubles, Florida forward Jennifer George was named First-Team All-SEC on Wednesday. Guard Deana Allen also received the Co-6th Woman of the Year award. 
Florida coach Tim Walton said 
he’s not afraid to go to his bench and use all the players on the roster this season. See story, page 18.JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
By the time John Jenkins hit his 
game-high sixth 3-pointer, Brad 
Beal was willing to place the Van-derbilt guard in the same breath as his favorite NBA player.
 “He’s like Ray Allen,” Beal 
said. “He’s always coming off an-other screen, and another screen and another screen. He’s a terrific shooter and he got hot.”
Led by Jenkins’ 22 points, the Commodores shot 50 percent behind the arc Tuesday night at Memorial Gym and pulled away from the Gators late for a 77-67 win.
While the season-high 12 tri-
ples Florida allowed came at the hands of the Southeastern Confer -
ence’s 3-point percentage leaders, Beal said some of the open looks and defensive breakdowns Van-derbilt enjoyed against UF were inexcusable.
“There was just stupidity,” he said. “Sometimes we were too caught up on the ball instead of finding Jenkins or finding (Jef-fery) Taylor and guys were just knocking down threes. That was just our lack of awareness. You have to be aware on the court and know where the guys are.”
The Commodores, who shot 
10.2 percentage points above their previous season average, were just the latest SEC team to take advantage of Florida from the 3-point line. In the Gators’ previous 14 
games, 11 other league oppo-nents have bested their usual 3-point percentage against UF’s defense. The hot shooting nights have combined to drop Florida’s 3-point percentage defense to 35.6 for the season, which is 11th in the SEC.
“We figured out what they 
were doing,” said Taylor, who hit 4 of 8 from three. “We were quick, we were moving around fast, getting into the guys that we needed to cover and everybody just worked together.”
Though slowing down anoth-
er team’s 3-point shooting relies heavily on its quality of shooter and frequency of attempts, Van-derbilt’s success around the pe-rimeter looked hauntingly simi-lar to what Kentucky was able to accomplish against Florida more than two weeks earlier.
The Wildcats shot a season-
high 60 percent on 9-of-15 shoot-ing from deep in their 20-point win on Feb. 7. 
Kentucky hit three straight 
3-pointers to close a frenetically paced first half. Florida coach Billy Donovan attributed the easy looks to missed assignments in transition.  
He would echo the sentiment 
after the Gators struggled to switch from their full-court press to both zone and man-to-man de-fense against the Commodores.
“It was my fault for trying to 
change defenses,” Donovan said. “We got caught changing up in transition a few times, and Taylor and Jenkins torched us.”
Florida gave up double-digit 
3-pointers for just the second time this season, with the only other instance coming in late De-cember on an 11-of-21 shooting effort by Yale.  
The Gators, on the other hand, 
have hit more than 10 threes in 19 of their 30 games and are the only team still ranked in the AP Top 25 besides Michigan to take more than 41 percent of its shots from 3-point range, according to KenPom.com. The Gators have taken 44.5 percent of their field goal attempts from beyond the arc, a figure that ranks seventh in the NCAA and is 11.5 percentage points higher than the national average.
Down the stretch, Donovan 
grew disappointed with his team’s shot selection as Florida used  nine shots on 3-pointers in a just more than four-minute span starting at the 9:32 mark. Though the Gators made three, the Commodores still outscored Florida 14-9 during the stretch. 
“We did a pretty solid job of 
either contesting the shots or taking them away [Tuesday],” Taylor said.  “That’s pretty much why we won.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.
AP Photo
Florida freshman Brad Beal (23) said a series of mistakes and a lack of awareness allowed Vanderbilt 
to exploit the Gators’ defense for a season-high 12 made 3-pointers on Tuesday night.
Gators’ 3-point defense not showing up for critical games
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The Gators’ postseason forecast remains 
unclear, so they’re not planning too far 
ahead.
With the Southeastern Conference Tour -
nament kicking off today, Florida has been preparing and focusing solely on its first-round opponent: Auburn.
Forget the NCAA Tournament. Forget a 
potential second-round matchup against SEC Champion No. 10 Kentucky.
Even after defeating the Tigers 70-56 on 
Feb. 9, the Gators remain centered on today’s game at 1 p.m. in Nashville, Tenn., because history requires them to do so.
Florida is 1-7 against Auburn in postsea-
son play, including a 52-47 loss in the 1997 SEC Tournament Final. UF has reached the championship game just one other time.
The Gators have not defeated the Tigers 
in the SEC Tournament since 1994, when UF coach Amanda Butler was wearing a Florida uniform and playing the point.
“The only thing that, 
right now, we’re talking about is Auburn,” Butler said. “There’s not any rea-son to talk about a (postsea-son) run because we’ve got to play one game and we’ve 
got to beat Auburn.”
The Gators have simpli-
fied their immediate goal to 
getting past the Tigers, but it’s hard to ignore what would come next should UF win today. If Florida defeats Auburn, Kentucky will be waiting in the second round.
The Gators have played the Wildcats twice 
this season, losing both games by a combined eight points. And even redshirt senior guard Jordan Jones’ eyes have wandered to the next section of the bracket.
“Obviously, both close losses … two games 
that we really looked back on and thought we could’ve had,” Jones said. “With those close games, it’s confidence. We were right there with the No. 1 team in our conference.”
Florida’s losses to Kentucky accounted for 
Florida concentrating solely on Auburn, SEC Tournament
Chance at NCAA Tourney berth on the line“Sometimes we were 
too caught up on the ball 
instead of finding Jenkins 
or finding (Jeffery) Taylor 
and guys were just knock -
ing down threes. That was 
just our lack of awareness. 
You have to be aware on the 
court and know where the 
guys are.”
Brad Beal
UF guard
Butler
see W-HOOPs, PA ge 20� UF PLAYS EASTERN 
MICHIGAN TODAY AT 6 P.M. IN GAINESVILLE.
JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
 
Tim Walton said it’s pos-
sible to win without depth. The 
Gators will just take his word for it.
With an extensive and deep 
bench, Walton is not afraid to bring in substitutes if it means helping his team win. Through 14 games, Walton has batted every player on his roster at least once, and the trend looks to continue Thursday night at 6 when UF plays Eastern Michi-gan.
“There’s not a whole lot of 
separation between our worst hitter and our best hitter,” Wal-ton said.
“So you’re going to see a 
good mix this weekend, and you know, ultimately, that’s the hard part. When you’re re-cruiting, you tell kids this, this and this, and to be honest with them, they have to perform.”
In the No. 3 Gators’ trip last 
weekend to Palm Springs, Ca-lif., for the Cathedral City Clas-sic, junior Ensley Gammel was one of several players to come off the bench. She belted two homers, knocking in three runs to help Florida notch four wins in a difficult tournament. “It’s great,” Gammel said. 
“Everyone gets to play. Having depth definitely makes a better softball team.”
Walton’s constant changes 
to the lineup and fielding posi-tions have not only gained pop-ularity with the bench players, but also the regular starters. 
Sophomore Hannah Rog-
ers, who now has two up-and-coming freshmen pitchers be-hind her in Lauren Haeger and Alyssa Bache, said she is all for having fresh legs give the start-ers a break.
“Everyone on our team is 
just as good as one another,” Rogers said. 
“So I feel like just being able 
to give them more playing time will help them in the season. If someone was to get hurt, [it would] help them know the game, the players and teams throughout the season.”
Sophomore shortstop Chey-
enne Coyle said she shares Rog-ers’ opinion.
“Everyone on this team 
works really, really hard,” Coyle said. “On a lot of teams, people work hard and never get a shot to show themselves. I think it’s different on this team and it’s great, especially when a player can come off the bench and get a home run or a hit. 
“It shows that everybody, 
that if you work hard, they can get a chance to prove them-selves.”
From the beginning of the 
season, Walton expressed that permanency does not exist in his team’s lineup. He has relied mostly on the veteran Gammel when going to a player on the bench but has proven that any-one, at any time, can enter the game.
Briana Little, one of seven 
freshmen, has already played in six of Florida’s 14 games. The outfielder has received playing time despite Walton already having a more experienced fielding lineup that includes former Southeastern Confer -
ence All-Freshman team mem-ber Kelsey Horton and All-American Michelle Moultrie. 
Even freshman Bailey Castro 
recorded an at-bat this year de-spite hobbling to the plate, still recovering from a broken foot.
“If we have players that are 
just beating down the walls with their swings, it would be a lot easier to play them a lot more consistently,” Walton said. 
“I think that’s the only thing 
I’m looking for right now, is try-ing to find a consistent lineup.”BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Brian Johnson was 1,254 miles from 
Gainesville, playing in the Cape Cod League, when he began to feel some discomfort in his 
shoulder. 
Florida’s junior left-handed starting pitch-
er immediately knew who to call. He got in touch with Paul Chandler, Florida baseball’s strength and conditioning coordinator, and discussed his training regimen in South Yar -
mouth, Mass. The two decided that there was just one factor missing.
“We found a nearby pool and after a cou-
ple of times of getting back in, his arm went right back down to how it normally feels,” Chandler said. 
The request for a pool was all part of a train-
ing method that has become commonplace at Florida.
For 11 years, Chandler was a competitive 
swimmer, and he decided the pool could be a good place to train his pitchers.  
Chandler was looking for a way to make 
sure each UF pitcher had equal flexibility and strength  in each shoulder when he discussed with Gators coach Kevin O’Sullivan reverting to his competitive background for a possible unconventional advantage. 
The result was a program that puts UF 
hurlers in the O’Connell Center pool two days per week during the offseason and once per week during the season. 
Workouts are 20-30 minutes long and in-
clude freestyle and backstroke drills. 
“It’s a different form of exercise   — length-
ens the muscle in the shoulder,” O’Sullivan 
said. “It’s something that was fun and we’ve seen our pitchers recover quicker. It’s been a benefit for us, for sure.”
Chandler named the workouts the Pitchers 
Velocity Conditioning program and believes it is the only plan of its kind in college baseball.He said the program validates itself in results. 
The swimming decreases inflammation in 
the arm and allows pitchers to maintain the same velocity they have in their first 10 pitches later in games when their counts reach up-wards of 70. 
“It’s helped tremendously,” junior starting 
pitcher Hudson Randall said. “It’s just resis-tance, just like you do your bands or weights as a pitcher ... but in water it’s resistance all the time.
“It really stretches you out, works muscles 
you really don’t notice working out with weights.”
Maybe the biggest area where the pool 
training has shown its benefits early this sea-son is in the adjustments made by sophomore right-hander Jonathon Crawford. After a very 
limited 2011, Crawford dropped his arm slot in his pitching motion this year and the result has been more strikes and better con-trol. 
In some cases an arm- 
slot change can cause in-creased inflammation, but Chandler credits the pool 
exercises with that not being the case at UF. 
“They’ve got so much balance with their 
shoulder and so much more feel for their arm, the arm slot change happens and then you don’t have as much inflammation,” Chandler said. 
Chandler has said that his pitchers love the 
PVC program, and O’Sullivan sees nothing negative about the approach. 
However, for players who have spent their 
entire lives around the diamond, a weekly trip to the natatorium can bring about some hu-mor. 
“I don’t wanna call anybody out, but 
(freshman pitcher) Ryan Harris doesn’t look too good in the water,” Randall said.18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida junior starting pitcher Hudson Randall said he enjoys strength coach Paul 
Chandler’s pool exercises, adding that the resistance has helped him tremendously.
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida junior Ensley Gammel said the third-ranked Gators are enjoying 
coach Tim Walton’s approach to using the entire roster.
Parity on roster helping No. 1 GatorsFlorida’s pitching staff benefitting from unusual workouts
Chandler
“When you’re recruit-
ing, you tell kids this, this 
and this, and to be honest 
with them, they have to 
perform.”
Tim Walton
UF coachJOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators had their most prolific two-game 
offensive stretch ever last weekend.
Surprisingly, they gave the defense some of 
the credit.
After a season-opening loss at North Caro-
lina in which Florida went on 25-minute score-
less streak, coach Amanda O’Leary said one of the reasons for the offensive struggles was the defense’s inability to get the ball to the attackers in transition.
Since the loss, the No. 4 Gators have won 
four straight games, and in their last two wins against Siena and Detroit they scored a com-bined 45 goals, the most over the course of two games in the three-year history of the Florida lacrosse program.
O’Leary said that the team’s effectiveness in 
transition last weekend was the result of the de-fense and offense being on the same page.
“Our defenders weren’t having to run the 
ball 30, 50 yards,” O’Leary said. “They were able to find (the attackers and midfielders) in transition.”
On Friday against Siena, Florida benefited 
from effective ball movement that started on the defensive end of the field. 
Less than two minutes into the game, junior 
defender Sam Farrell controlled a ground ball and completed a short pass to freshman mid-fielder Sally Jentis, who took the ball from in-side the UF restraining line to the other end of the field. Once Jentis got to the 12-meter fan, she passed it to junior attacker Kitty Cullen, who scored the first of the Gators’ team-record 23 goals in the game.
O’Leary said part of the responsibility falls 
on the attackers to make the proper cuts back to the defensive end to get open. But she also said it is the job of the defenders to evade the opposition’s attackers before passing it rather than trying to force a pass when they do not have space, as two of the goals surrendered in the loss to UNC were the result of turnovers by UF defenders.
“It’s all about confidence,” Farrell said. 
“We’re all really fast in the defensive end, and so we just need to be confident with carrying the ball. I think a lot of the times we were scared to defeat the defender in front of us and we’d 
just throw the ball away.”
Junior attacker Gabi Wie-
gand agreed with O’Leary in that her and the rest of the 
offense must cut back at the right time to receive passes out of the defensive end. Wie-gand said the Gators work on their timing in practice by running drills in which an at-
tacker and defender line up at their usual spots  and the defender has to get the ball to the at-tacker at a specific spot on the field.
Jamie Reeg, a junior defender, said that good 
transition ball movement relies primarily on quick passing.
“It’s important to move the ball fast through 
the midfield because the ball travels faster than we do,” Reeg said. “Once you pass it up the field, it’s easy to get a fast break and catch the other team off guard.”
Florida hosts Syracuse on Saturday, and 
O’Leary said transition ball movement will be even more important against a team like the Orange.
“They’re very aggressive offensively ,” 
O’Leary said. “They’re going to be playing our defenders really , really tightly , so it’s going to be up to our defenders to be able to find those attackers in transition.”Florida players, coaches praise 
defense for scoring outburst� UF BEAT FSU 7-0 ON 
WEDNESDAY. THE TEAM OPENS SEC PLAY THIS WEEKEND.
ELI MARGER
Alligator Writer
 
Florida moved one match clos-
er to its 100th consecutive home 
win Wednesday. By beating Flori-da State, the Gators moved to 52-1 all-time against the Seminoles. 
All of that, however, pales in 
comparison to the challenging weekend ahead for No. 15 UF.
Florida swept Florida State 
7-0 Wednesday evening, with the Seminoles putting up little resistance. The Gators won each singles match in straight sets, and only one Seminoles player won more than three games in a set. 
Florida, which fell 13 spots 
from No. 2 in the latest ITA wom-en’s team rankings released Tues-day, will open SEC play against No. 5 Tennessee on Friday and No. 4 Georgia on Sunday. “We’re going to play a lot more matches now,” Joanna Mather said. “We’re going to come into it as intense as we have every other match.”
Mather has started the dual-
match season in up-and-down fashion, but she looked very strong Wednesday, defeating Florida State’s Mia Vriens in straight sets. 
Mather, a senior, started the 
year 3-2 playing exclusively from the No. 3 singles position before Wednesday’s dominant win. Af-ter starting the spring ranked No. 4 nationally, Mather has fallen to No. 18. Still, she has felt better about her tennis recently.
“I’m just focusing on taking it 
one match at a time,” she said. “I feel like each match I’ve played, I’ve gotten better, and I’m just hoping to continue that.”
Paired with junior Caroline 
Hitimana, Mather also won her doubles match 8-2 as the Gators swept the doubles point. Florida is 16-5 in doubles play this year. They are 6-0 when winning the doubles point, and 0-1 when los-ing. 
Despite their success, coach Ro-
land Thornqvist said he has seen  room for improvement. In the weeks  between Florida’s previous match at Stanford and Wednes-day, much of the work in practice focused on doubles play.
“I still feel to this point that we 
can make some drastic improve-ments (in doubles),” he said. “In the last two weeks of practice, we’ve had a marked improvement in our attitude in practice and how we handle mistakes, so I certainly hope that it will lead to strong per -
formances.”
On Wednesday, Florida’s dou-
bles teams beat Florida State by a combined 24-4. The Gators’ dou-bles will need to be strong next weekend, as the Volunteers boast three teams all ranked in the top 20, and the Bulldogs feature the NCAA’s No. 6 team. 
While Georgia and Tennessee 
will be Florida’s top competition in the SEC this year, Thornqvist said the team’s strong non-confer -
ence slate was designed because of the fact that the conference is so top-heavy. 
After playing a non-conference 
slate that included road matches at Baylor, Pepperdine, and Stanford, the Gators feel prepared for the SEC season, especially this week-end’s pair of top-five opponents.
“We tend to play a very dif-
ficult non-conference schedule by design. I think the last few years we’ve had some decline in the competition in conference,” Thornqvist said. “We’ve had some great matches with Georgia and Tennessee, the perennial power -
houses, but we’ve also had some matches that haven’t been as com-petitive.” THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 19
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida senior Joanna Mather, who has fallen from No. 4 to No. 18 in the 
individual rankings, beat FSU’s Mia Vriens in straight sets Wednesday. Gators secure 99th consecutive home win in sweep of ‘Noles
O’Leary
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
After giving up two easy goals at UNC, junior defender Sam Farrell said the Gators 
have made defensive adjustments in an effort to improve transition play.
20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012
Gators tout strong rankings in RPI and strength of schedule
two of the team’s 12 games decided 
by six points or fewer this season.
UF is just 3-9 in those contests, 
snapping a four-game slide when it topped No. 16 Georgia 61-57 on Feb. 19 in the O’Connell Center. However, Florida’s struggles in close games have not dashed its NCAA Tournament hopes.
The Gators currently rank 37th 
in RPI and 11th in strength of schedule.
ESPN’s Charlie Creme has UF 
projected as a No. 10 seed in the NCAA Tournament in his latest Bracketology, but he lists Florida as a team trending downward.
In order to reverse their fortunes 
and clinch an NCAA Tournament berth for the first time since the 2008-09 campaign, the Gators will need to do some damage this week-end. 
However, Florida does not have 
a history of making waves in the SEC Tournament under Butler, posting just a 2-4 record and never advancing past the quarterfinals in four years.
“The past success or the past 
lack of success or failures, those don’t have anything to do with what’s going to happen next,” But-ler said. “We all can determine our own fates at this point and that’s what we’ve got to be focused on is the present moment.”
Right now, the Gators are pre-
paring to face the Tigers. 
Florida will ready for its next 
challenge “when it’s appropriate,” Butler said.
“We’re not scared of anyone or 
backing down from anyone,” Jones said. “It’s Auburn first, and then whoever waits, we’re ready for them.”
Contact Joe Morgan at joemor-
gan@alligator.org.W-HOOPS , from page 17
#9 Auburn
#8 Florida
#1 Kentucky
#10 Mississippi State#6 South Carolina#11 Alabama#12 Ole Miss
#5 Arkansas
#4 LSU
#7 Vanderbilt#3 Georgia
#2 TennesseeGame 1 - Noon
[FSN]
Game 3 - 6:30 p.m.
[FSN]
Game 7 - 6:30 p.m.
[FSN]Game 5 - Noon
[FSN]
Game 8 - 9:00 p.m.
[FSN]Game 4 - 9:00 p.m.
[FSN]
Game 6 - 2:30 p.m.
[FSN]Game 2 - 2:30 p.m.
[FSN]Game 10 - 5:00 p.m.
[ESPNU]Game 9 - 3:00 p.m.
[ESPNU]
Championship - 5:00 p.m.
[ESPN2]2012 SEC WOMEN’S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT BRACKET
March 1-4 • Bridgestone Arena (17,576) • Nashville, Tenn.
Thursday, March 1 Friday, March 2 Saturday, March 3 Sunday, March 4
NCAA Tournament 
Automatic Qualifier
All times CENTRAL
#9 Auburn
#8 Florida
#1 Kentucky
#10 Mississippi State#6 South Carolina#11 Alabama#12 Ole Miss
#5 Arkansas
#4 LSU
#7 Vanderbilt#3 Georgia
#2 TennesseeGame 1 - Noon
[FSN]
Game 3 - 6:30 p.m.
[FSN]
Game 7 - 6:30 p.m.
[FSN]Game 5 - Noon
[FSN]
Game 8 - 9:00 p.m.
[FSN]Game 4 - 9:00 p.m.
[FSN]
Game 6 - 2:30 p.m.
[FSN]Game 2 - 2:30 p.m.
[FSN]Game 10 - 5:00 p.m.
[ESPNU]Game 9 - 3:00 p.m.
[ESPNU]
Championship - 5:00 p.m.
[ESPN2]2012 SEC WOMEN’S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT BRACKET
March 1-4 • Bridgestone Arena (17,576) • Nashville, Tenn.
Thursday, March 1 Friday, March 2 Saturday, March 3 Sunday, March 4
NCAA Tournament 
Automatic Qualifier
All times CENTRAL� 2012 SEC Women’s Basketball Tournament Bracket
          March 1-4 ● Bridgestone Arena (17,576) ● Nashville, Tenn. 
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator Staff