FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 10CLASSIFIEDS 15
CROSSWORD  19SPORTS 23VOLUME 106 ISSUE 106 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Commission votes in support of water regulations
The resolution will protect Alachua County springs, pg 3.  
Relish to open new location in downtown Gainesville
The restaurant will stay open after bars close, pg 5. Florida used a 
second-half 
surge to pull away 
from Auburn 
on Tuesday 
night at home. 
See story, page 17.
Dancer, blogger talks body image
Ragen Chastain discussed health and conﬁ  dence 
in the Reitz Union Ballroom, pg. 4. 
77/60 Haley Stratcher / Alligator Staff
  Party Animals
  Unite Party dog, Jackson, 14 months, plays with Students Party dog, Sammy, 18 months, on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday 
afternoon. Unite Party campaigners said Jackson was born a Unite dog. Students Party campaigners said they were the ﬁ  rst to have a party dog and that imitation is the highest form of ﬂ  attery. 
  JON SILMAN
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  It was a simple status update.  Beatrice Diehl, 22, a journalism senior and 
a member of the Sigma Kappa sorority , felt a need to express her opinion about Student Government after she read an article in the Alligator on Monday about a Unite Party member throwing away copies of the paper. In an interview with the Alligator on Tues-day , she described a social environment that catered to the Unite Party by coercing mem-bers to vote and pass out ﬂ  iers for Unite to get privileges and that generally perpetuated a si-lent mandate to support the party or be subtly ostracized, even reprimanded.
  “It’s patronage politics,” she said, “and 
that’s what I hate so much about it. It’s not democratic at all.”
  Diehl, a member of Sigma Kappa for four 
years, said she doesn’t usually get involved with SG, but after the trash can newspaper incident, she had to speak out.  On Tuesday at about 2:30 a.m., she wrote this:
  Everyone remember to vote today!! As a Senior, 
it would be really great to leave this school know-
ing it was in good hands, with people who actually care about the ENTIRE student body. I’ve hated campus politics and avoided them for four years because they seemed so petty. And this proves they  Sorority 
member speaks out about election
SEE SORORITY, PAGE 8
� POLLS ARE OPEN UNTIL 8:30 P.M.
  SAMANTHA SHAVELL
 Alligator Writer
  Tuesday’s Student Government elections 
brought out about 18 percent more students 
than voted on the ﬁ  rst day in the past two elections.  Supervisor of Elections Toni Megna said 
Tuesday’s votes tallied 6,517.
  These numbers are up about 1,000 votes 
from the ﬁ  rst day of both the last two SG elec-tions.
  The total votes from the ﬁ  rst day of the Fall 
2011 election was 5,486, and the total vote tally for the Spring 2011 was 5,532, according to Al-ligator archives.  No major computer errors occurred Tues-
day.
    Ian Centrone, a 21-year-old advertising se-
nior, voted in the CSE lab and said some of the keyboards were acting up, but it didn’t cause too much of a problem.  ‘
    Students can vote today at any of the 11 lo-
cations, which include   the Broward Hall Base-ment, Jennings ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor study room, Springs Area Ofﬁ  ce Room 202, Murphree Area Com-mons, Reitz Union third ﬂ  oor computer lab, McCarty Hall B computer lab B, Southwest Rec Center, Levin College of Law student lounge, CSE Computer Lab, Marston Library and the Health Science Center Library Col-laboration Center.
  Today the health center location will open 
at 9 a.m. and the CSE Computer Lab will close at  4:30 p.m.  Voter turnout increases by 18 percent for ﬁ  rst day of elections  EMILY MILLER
 Alligator Contributing Writer
 Tickets to see Billy Joel are available to-
day.
  Joel will answer questions and perform 
March 1 at 8 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
  Tickets for the event, which are free to 
UF students with a Gator 1 Card, will be distributed at the University Box Ofﬁ  ce to-day from noon to 5 p.m. University Box Of-ﬁ  ce rules prohibit students from lining up before 7 a.m.
  About 1,800 tickets 
will be available. One ticket is permitted per student ID, and no more than four IDs can be pre-sented at a time.
  “You are never in 
your life going to be able to see Billy Joel for free, and this is a great expe-
rience and hopefully a memory you will have forever,” said Corey Portnoy, Accent chairman. “He is a legend.”
Portnoy said Accent Speaker’s Bureau is 
paying Joel $25,000 for the event.
  If tickets are still available, they will be 
distributed Thursday starting at noon for students and at 6 p.m. for the public.
  Doors open at 7 p.m. Each ticket reserves 
a seat until 7:45 p.m.
  Student Government Productions chair-
man Jeffrey Schnier said the Phillips Center was chosen per Joel’s request.
  Student Government Productions is co-
sponsoring the event.   Billy Joel to perform at Phillips Center  
Joel
“It’s patronage politics, and 
that’s what I hate so much about it. 
It’s not democratic at all.”
Beatrice Diehl
UF seniorNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 106 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Rachel Rowan, Nika Zecevic
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett,   
  David Williams
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 A
dvertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/60PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/60THUNDER
STORMS
80/48PARTLY
CLOUDY
66/40PARTLY
CLOUDY
71/50SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
3-Day Call in to Support the RTS 
Bus Drivers
Today to Thursday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.Turlington PlazaThis week Students for a Democratic Society is hosting a three-day call-in to support bus drivers. See members on Turlington Plaza to learn more about the challenges that RTS bus drivers are facing and how to help.
5K-9 Olympics
Today, 2 p.m.Reitz Union North LawnCompete alongside your dog in the first 5K-9 Olympics. Winners of the longest fetch, highest jump and most time standing on hind legs will be rewarded with prizes including cruises, gym memberships and waived University Commons 5K-9 admission. More event de-tails can be found on Facebook.com/uc5k9.
Authors@UF: Hitler’s Shadow 
— Nazi War Criminals, US 
Intelligence and the Cold War
Today, 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.Smathers Library, Room 1AHistory professor Norman Goda will discuss his book “Hitler’s Shadow — Nazi War Criminals, US Intelligence and the Cold War.” The book inves-tigates how and why numerous Nazi war criminals, including high officials of the Gestapo, escaped prosecution at the end of WWII. Goda will share his presents a free lecture series. Pandit, born and raised in India, is a licensed, board-certified physician. His 20-year search for a reason to believe led him through the questions of athe-ism, postmodernism and plu-ralism to a unique method of comparing the five great world religions. For more information visit facebook.com/pandituf or email uf.babyisaac@gmail.com
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.perspective as a writer, histo-
rian and researcher. Q&A and 
reception will follow.
CHISPAS General Body 
Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.Institute of Hispanic Latino Cultures, “La Casita”All students are welcome. There will be free pizza and a speaker from the Student/
Farmworker Alliance.
Golden Key General Body 
Meeting
Today, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.Turlington, Room L011Go to Golden Key’s third gen-eral body meeting to learn about more ongoing events and opportunities this spring. There will be free pizza, soda and a presentation from guest speaker Abhi Lokesh. After the meeting, everyone is in-vited to a social at Applebee’s to raise funds for Relay for 
Life.
Cross Examined: The Evidence 
for Belief
Today to Friday , 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.The Ocora at Pugh HallJoin Dr. Subodh Pandit as he 
 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
� COMMISSION WANTS     
LOCAL WATER CONTROL.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
The Alachua County Commis-
sion wants Ginnie Springs and oth-
er county springs to keep strongly flowing.
To bring attention to water 
depletion in Alachua County, the commission pledged its support to keep water regulation of Florida’s rivers and springs under local con-trol rather than state control.
In a unanimous vote Tuesday 
morning, the commission approved a resolution to continue its support of keeping control of public water within water management districts, which are the agencies that control how much water can be pumped out of the ground to irrigate land throughout the state.
The resolution came in reaction 
to a Florida Senate bill that would take water regulation power from the water management districts and give it to the state.
Two springs in North Florida 
that were once tourist destinations in the 1920s are now dried up be-cause too many areas around the 
state are pumping groundwater out of North Florida, said Chris Bird, 
director of the Alachua County Environmental Protection De-partment. He is concerned Gin-
nie Springs could follow.     
“Water and lack of it is probably 
the most pressing problem in the future of Florida,” commissioner Lee Pinkoson said.
There are five water manage-
ment districts in Florida. Alachua County is split between two dis-tricts: the Suwannee River Water Management District and the St. Johns River Water Management District.
When residents request a per -
mit to irrigate their land — usually farmland — their water district de-nies or grants them a permit to set up a well that pumps groundwater from the Floridan Aquifer, a large underground body of water that fills springs across North Florida.
“As a result, there is less water 
to feed the springs,” Bird said.
While supporting water man-
agement districts will not solve the problem of disappearing water, the commissioners said at the meeting, it would allow local governments to keep a watchful eye over the springs and rivers.
If the state government takes 
control of water regulation and distribution, it could pump from wherever it pleases, he said.County 
votes to protect springs
DeLaney
4, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
Elizabeth Hamilton / Alligator
Ragen Chastain, three-time national championship dancer, author 
and motivational speaker, talks about positive body image in the Rion Ballroom on Tuesday night.
on c Ampus
CAITLIN HARTLEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Ragen Chastain collapsed on a treadmill in her 
gym, she knew she had to make some changes in her 
life.
Tuesday night, she shared her discoveries and of-
fered strategies for a life of health and happiness with an audience of about 80 people in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
GatorWell paid Chastain $2,000 to speak.Chastain is 5 foot 4 inches tall and weighs 284 pounds. 
She believes she is the healthiest and happiest she could ever be.
She encourages others with body image issues to feel 
the same way.
“Health and weight are two different things,” 
Chastain said. “There are healthy people and unhealthy people in every size and weight.”
Chastain overcame an eating disorder and won three 
national dance championships. She now maintains a blog about her journey at danceswithfat.org.
She said she’s familiar with negativity from doctors 
and society, and she still receives ridicule despite her accomplishments.
“A lot of times, somebody wants to bring me in as a 
speaker, but I was turned down because they say I was promoting obesity,” she said.
On the contrary, she said, her belief is to support 
all body types and help people love what size they are while being healthy.
“She is such a confident person,” said Kaifang Zheng, 
a 23-year-old mental health counseling student. “From her body, my bias would first be she’s not. But she really is that confident, and I love that.”Dancer, blogger talks body image at Reitz
CAROLYN HAND
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County School Board 
voted Tuesday to keep county schools’ 
2012-13 Spring Break separate from that of UF and Santa Fe College.
The vote was 3-2.Some advocated for aligning the 
breaks to give UF and SFC employ-ees who have school-age children the chance to have the same Spring Break as their children.
But some board members were wor -
ried that having an earlier Spring Break would have a negative effect on student performance in the spring months.
“If you’re a teacher, you know that af-
ter Spring Break — especially with high school students — the students think the school year is over,” said Eileen Roy, a member of the School Board.
Shane Andrew, principal of New-
berry High School, said students tend to lose focus after Spring Break, espe-cially high school seniors who are pre-occupied with thoughts of prom and graduation.
Karen McCann, president of the Ala-
chua County Education Association, told the Board at a previous meeting that teachers and staff were concerned a joint Spring Break would give high school students easy access to alcohol through older college students.
In response to McCann’s statement, 
board member Carol Oyenarte said aligning the breaks would mean more parental supervision for students.
Encouraging the board to try some-
thing new, Oyenarte said doing so would be similar to its previous deci-sion to adopt a countywide school dress code.
“The first time is hard, but it’s at 
least worth a try,” she said.
Kari Cronin, an Irby Elementary 
School teacher and a parent, said she understood that the decision was not an easy one for the board.
“The 3-2 vote tonight to me says 
that they were kind of torn themselves in what kind of decision to make,” she said. “Change is hard at first, but I think that we can all adjust to change. But it just sounds like tonight that they were not quite ready to embrace that philoso-phy when it comes to the spring sched-ule.”School 
Board votes on SpringBreak dates
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW ORLEANS — As the sun began to 
set and the traditional family atmosphere of 
Mardi Gras along St. Charles Avenue end-ed, streams of revelers poured into New Orleans’ French Quarter to continue the party well into the night.
Earlier, bathed in spring-like warmth 
and showered with trinkets, beads and mu-sic, New Orleans reveled in the excesses of Fat Tuesday.
A seemingly endless stream of costumed 
marching groups and ornately decorated float parades led by make-believe royalty poured out of the Garden District, while the French Quarter filled up with thrill-seekers expecting to see debauchery.
And they did.Some in the Quarter had a sleepless 
night after Monday’s Lundi Gras prequel party. The drinking was in full-swing again shortly after dawn, and with it came out-rageous costumes and flesh-flashing that would continue until police made their an-nual attempt to break up the merrymaking at midnight, when Lent began.
Tom White, 46, clad in a pink tutu, bi-
cycled with his wife, Allison, to the French Quarter.
“I’m the pink fairy this year,” he said. 
“Costuming is the real fun of Mardi Gras. I’m not too creative, but when you weigh 200 pounds and put on a tutu, people still take your picture.”
His wife was not in costume. “He’s dis-
graced the family enough,” she said.
The theme of the day was party hard 
and often.
Across the globe, people dressed up 
in elaborate costumes and partied the day away. In Rio de Janeiro, an estimated 850,000 tourists joined the city’s massive five-day blowout. Meanwhile, the Portu-guese, who have suffered deeply in Eu-rope’s debt crisis, defied a government ap-peal to keep working.
In New Orleans, the streets filled with 
hundreds of thousands of people.
The celebration arrived in Louisiana 
in 1682 when the explorer LaSalle and his party stopped at a place they called Bayou Mardi Gras south of New Orleans to cel-ebrate.
Costumes, beads consume Mardi Gras in New OrleansTYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office deputies arrested a 
Gainesville man Monday night for having sex with a 16-year-old girl.
Torie G. Richardson, 33, 
was charged with sexual as-sault after spending Sunday night with the girl at the Motel 6 at 4000 SW 40th Blvd. The girl told Sheriff’s Office deputy Brian Gregalot that she and Richardson had sex twice in the last year, according to the arrest report.
Gainesville Police also ar -
rested Richardson for sexual assault of a girl younger than 16 years old on Dec. 13, but charges were dropped on Jan. 30 due to insufficient evidence, according to the Alachua Coun-ty Clerk of Court.The girl in the most recent 
case said she didn’t know Richardson before he 
added her as a friend on Facebook last March. According to the arrest re-
port, they communicated via telephone and Facebook before eventually meeting at Eddy Boy Park in Chiefland.
On Sunday, the two decided 
to meet again. The girl said she rode the bus to the Motel 6, where they smoked marijuana for about 30 minutes before having sex, according to police.
Richardson has been incar -
cerated in the state three times and most recently got out in 2009, according to the Florida Department of Corrections.
Man charged with having sex with teenager
Richardson
“She is such a confident person. From her 
body, my bias would first be she’s not. But she 
really is that confident, and I love that.”
Kaifang Zheng
23-year-old mental health counseling student
“If you’re a teacher, you know 
that after Spring Break — espe-
cially with high school students 
— the students think the school 
year is over."
Eileen Roy
school board member
The first celebration was in 1682  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
John McLaughlin / Alligator
Peace Corps Acceptance
The director of the Peace Corps, Aaron Williams (right), presents Elihu Isele (left), 35, with an accep-
tance package to the Peace Corps. Isele recently graduated with a master’s in sustainable development practice from UF. Albert the Alligator also made an appearance.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
Beverly Bruce was watch-
ing “The V oice” Monday night 
when her grandson came home and lit her closet on fire.
An Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office deputy arrested 32-year-old Keith Thomas at 10:16 p.m. Monday on charges of arson and criminal mischief, accord-ing to an arrest report.
At about 9:45 p.m., Thomas, 
who Bruce said is mentally chal-lenged, came home from drink-ing at a bar with his friend. He wanted to drive to see his girl-friend, but Bruce wouldn’t let him. She said she hid the keys in her pocket so he wouldn’t find them.
“He really only gets like this 
when he is drunk,” said Bruce, 73. “He’s real sweet when he is sober.”
After frantically search-
ing for his grandmother’s car keys, Thomas went into an empty bedroom and walked into the storage closet where Bruce stored her 5-foot-tall fake Christmas tree. He then lit a match and set the box holding the tree ablaze, according to the arrest report.
Bruce said she did not chase 
him when he went into the bedroom. She sat in her chair and continued watching “The V oice,” a reality TV singing competition.
Bruce said she was accus-
tomed to her grandson’s drunk-en outbursts after living with him for nine years. However, she said his behavior has never caused her to call the police.
“I called the police, but I wasn’t afraid of him,” she said. “He would never hurt me. Never.”
Ten minutes later, she saw 
a flickering light in the empty bedroom adjacent to her liv-ing room. She walked into the room and saw flames.
Bruce, who needs a tank 
of oxygen to breathe, tried to think of a safe place to go. She said she remembered there was a built-in oxygen tank in her car and headed for her driveway.
“I saw those flames, and I 
said, ‘I’m outta here,’” Bruce said. “‘You’re not blowin’ me up.’”
Bruce locked herself in her 
car and called the police. In the meantime, Thomas took a steak knife from the kitchen, walked outside and slashed the front 
left tire of her white Honda Civic, accord-ing to the po-
lice report.
W i t h i n 
m i n u t e s , Bruce said, two depu-ties’ vehicles 
and a fire truck were outside her door.
The fire burned several 
plastic boxes, coat hangers and the cardboard box holding her Christmas tree, according to the arrest report. Damage from the fire did not exceed $1,000.
Thomas’s bond has not been 
set, and he was in the Alachua County Jail as of Tuesday night, according to the county Clerk of Court website.
“I just want him to get some 
help,” Bruce said. “He just needs help.”Man charged with  
setting relative’s closet on fire
LOCAL
BLAINE KRIVACEK
Alligator Contributing Writer
Downtown party-goers will 
soon have more options for satis-
fying late-night burger cravings.
Relish Big Tasty Burgers will 
open a new location in down-town Gainesville that will stay open after the bars close, owner Rob Roche said.
The new location at 201 SE 
First St. is tentatively scheduled to open on March 15.
Roche said the Midtown loca-
tion is a quick place to eat, where-as the new downtown location will be more of a hang-out spot.
Along with extended week-
end hours, the downtown Relish will have an outside seating area, serve beer and wine and have 60-inch televisions.
Roche said he aims to create 
a comfortable atmosphere where people can go to relax after a long night and eat quality burgers.
“We really focus on people 
having a great experience when they visit Relish,” Roche said.
Roche, who also owns the Pita 
Pit on West University, opened the Relish in Midtown in January 2009 because he saw an untapped market for burgers in the area.
His business places an empha-
sis on fresh ingredients and certi-fied Angus beef, which makes up only 8 percent of the beef sold in the country, he said.
Relish patrons can choose from 
eight types of relish, and there’s no limit to the amount of top-pings one can pile on a burger.
Marketing junior David Bur -
khardt, 21, said he enjoys the res-taurant’s topping philosophy.
“Relish is really convenient af-
ter a late night in Midtown,” he said. “I’m glad Relish will be in downtown too for when I am in a downtown mood.”Relish to open downtown location
“We really focus on people 
having a great experience 
when they visit Relish.”
Rob Roche
owner of RelishThomas
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Will you go to Relish downtown?
324 TOTAL VOTES67% YES
33% NOMonday’s question: Are you going to 
vote today?Never Be Silenced
Voting is the only way to 
be heard in SG
What is UF Student Government?
According the SG Constitution, members of Stu-
dent Government are supposed to:
-represent and defend the rights of students to the univer -
sity, the community and government;
-provide a forum for the expression of student views and 
interests;
-promote academic freedom, responsibility and high stan-
dards of education;
-provide services and organize events for the benefit of stu-
dents.
-help promote understanding and recognition of the re-
sponsibilities of students to the university, the community and humanity.
During this election, you probably have not heard these 
principles espoused by representatives of either party.    
However, these principles are extremely important to un-
derstanding why you should care about SG elections.    
According to its own constitution, SG represents the voice 
of the entire Student Body, and it cannot do so justly unless members of the Student Body make their voices heard at the ballot box.    
If this election is decided by members of only a few organi-
zations on campus, then the decisions made by SG will reflect those views alone. SG will also be beholden to only those who helped put them in power.    
Voting is not only your privilege, but at UF, where SG holds 
so much power and influence, it should be your responsibility.    
Caring about this election will also ensure that you have the 
ability to hold elected officials accountable when they make mistakes.    
Fortunately, the Alligator is protected by the First Amend-
ment to act as a watchdog for you, the Student Body.    
But we can only do so much to hold our representatives ac-
countable. Unless members of SG recognize the power of the Student Body to influence the makeup of this governing body, nothing will change.    
Voting for the SG Elections ends tonight at 8:30 p.m.The locations include the Broward Hall basement, Jennings 
Hall first floor study room, Springs Area Office Room 202, Murphree Area Commons, Reitz Union third floor computer lab, McCarty Hall B computer lab B, Southwest Recreation Center, Levin College of Law student lounge, CSE computer lab, Marston Library and the Health Science Center Library Collaboration Center.
The CSE lab will close at 4:30 p.m. and the health center lo-
cation will open at 9 a.m. today.
Go vote. Do not vote on behalf of any party, any platform or 
any particular candidate.
Vote to keep your voice.Internet shouldn’t change the way we read
We’re all familiar with people who claim to hate reading, yet spend hours perusing Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr posts.
Now it’s time to fess up.In the last week, have you spent more time engaged in 
deep, contemplative reading or browsing the Internet?
Equally important, have you found it more difficult 
to absorb yourself in longer writings and easier to read short online articles?
Let’s be clear: By deep, contemplative reading, I mean 
a complete, undisturbed commitment to a writing of sev-eral pages. That is, reading in the traditional sense.
Contrasted with this type of reading are inattentive 
Internet browsing, reading Facebook posts, emailing and quickly skimming Wikipedia articles — in short, the ways we read online content.
Research shows that there is a fundamental difference 
between these two types of reading. Scholars at Univer -
sity College London conducted a study observing online research habits and found that Internet readers “power browse horizontally through titles … going for quick wins. It almost seems that they go online to avoid read-ing in the traditional sense.”
So why are we avoiding reading “in the traditional 
sense?” Why is it more difficult for us to engage in longer writing?
In his article “Is Google Making Us Stupid?,” Nicholas 
Carr explored such questions and found that he, along with many of his colleagues, had more difficulty read-ing longer writings as their Internet use increased over the years. Further, Carr argued that we tend to take on the qualities of the technology we use, and the Internet might be fundamentally changing the way we think.
In fact, it seems difficult to imagine Internet use not 
affecting the way we think. Much Internet use today is based on instant gratification: short, immediate bursts of information or entertainment that tend to have little last-ing, beneficial impact.
As we read Facebook and 
Twitter posts, watch short video clips and quickly skim Wikipe-dia articles (forgetting its con-tent soon after), we reinforce the neural circuitry responsible for instant gratification.
Similarly, as we use the In-
ternet more, we tend to engage 
less in longer writings. This may have long-term effects on our ability to think because it weakens the neural cir -
cuitry that allows for delayed gratification. As a result, we become less likely to read longer writings to gain new insight.
According to Susan Greenfield, professor of synaptic 
pharmacology at Lincoln College, Oxford, social media websites pose a unique risk. Greenfield found that expe-riences on social media websites “are devoid of cohesive narrative and long-term significance. As a consequence, the mid-21st century mind might almost become infant-like, characterized by short attention spans, sensational-ism, inability to empathize and a shaky sense of iden-tity.”
This is not to condescend or bemoan a technology that 
has made knowledge more widely available. The Inter -
net’s benefits are self-evident, but there is considerable emerging evidence suggesting that its unchecked use may affect the way we think.
At the end of the week, ask yourself: Have I spent 
more time browsing the Internet and reading Facebook statuses or reading in the traditional sense?
If the answer is the former, remember that you might 
be changing the way you think, and try to take steps to tip the balance in favor of the latter.
Abdul Zalikha is a biology and English junior at UF. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Abdul Zalikha
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 7
   T  he past few weeks have been politically dominated by 
President Barack Obama’s mandate requiring Catholic institutions to provide workers with access to contra-
ception and pharmacological abortion. The conservative out-cry was well-placed, and I agree that the mandate was a gross governmental overstep.
  The political and religious battle at the moment of the dec-
laration was well covered, yet another question should be an-swered: How does contraception affect the fabric of society?
  Most of us are so used to the existence of readily available 
contraception that we cannot imagine a world without it. Like everyone who attended a public school in Florida, I was forced to take a sexual education course at 12 years old, in which I was taught the virtues of sexual prophylactics. It was conde-scendingly assumed that we would all soon be engaging in wanton sex, so the best thing the school could do was make sure nobody got pregnant.
  The underlying assumption in courses such as these is that 
sex is a recreational activity, which unfortunately can have the negative side effect of pregnancy. Sex is considered by our so-ciety a fun thing to do on the weekends with no lingering con-sequences, thanks to contraception. Whether to bear a child, on the other hand, is considered an educated choice, much like taking out a mortgage on a home or starting a retirement fund.
  Before widespread contraception, sex and pregnancy were 
not separated. Rather, they were one in the same. People got married not because of any 20th-century romantic ideal, but because a couple bearing children was a boon to society.
  Pregnancy was once considered a blessing from God — now 
it is often seen as a curse. When did we, as a culture, begin to perceive ourselves as Nietzschian god-men with the ability to overthrow the laws of nature with a manufactured prophylactic?
  These past few paragraphs pose 
the question: Was the current sexual climate born out of widespread con-traception, or did an organic cultural change simply create the demand? 
The answer is likely a little of both.
  However, contraception is still the symbol of our highly 
sexualized culture, and it’s fair to ask if disconnecting sex from pregnancy is healthy for society.
  The Western world is suffering a reversal of its family trees. 
Birth rates have declined immensely in Europe, and are suffer-ing in the U.S. as well. Women in the United Kingdom, Ger-many, Italy and Greece bear less than two children each on average – a number that leads to a decline in population. The U.S. is barely over the line at 2.06 children per woman.
  At ﬁ  rst glance, this seems like a harmless proposition. 
However, the current model of Western government expendi-tures relies on ever-increasing generations of young people to support those who retire. There is a reason why Social Secu-rity is no longer as economically viable as it was when it was founded — people aren’t having enough babies. Isn’t it ironic that those on the left who so staunchly support contraception and abortion at the same time advertise a system that relies on high birth rates to function?
  To reverse this course, the way Western culture perceives 
sex and pregnancy has to change. Sex should no longer be a recreational activity but rather a meaningful symbol of union between two individuals. Pregnancy should no longer be seen as a curse, but rather a blessing.
  One is reminded of the motto of the 1933 Century of Prog-
ress World’s Fair: “Science ﬁ  nds, Industry applies, Man con-forms.” I wonder if the workers at the ﬁ  rst condom factory knew the society their new product would breed. Even if they didn’t, we should still reﬂ  ect on it.
  Luke Bailey is a history junior at UF. His column appears on 
Wednesdays.  Sex should not      
always be considered recreational Column
Luke Bailey
opinions@alligator.org
  On Feb. 13, the Bob Graham Center for Pub-
lic Service hosted Israeli journalist Amira Hass. Hass is an Israeli, the daughter of two 
Holocaust survivors and is known for her leftist re-ports on Palestinian affairs.
  Her lecture left me in shock and frustration. I 
would like to put the rhetoric aside and discuss the facts.
  In her discussion titled “Israel & Palestine: Fear 
of the Future,” Hass lamented the culture of what she calls “Jewish ethnic privileges” in Israel and cautioned everyone in the packed Pugh Hall against the dangers of such a “colonial society.”
  I am an ardent supporter of free speech, but I am 
also a strong believer in the importance of facts and informed decisions. To those who agree with Hass, I ask you to consider the following.
  Hass asserts that Palestinians are forced to live 
as “stateless refugees in their own homeland.” Yet it was Arab leaders who, in 1948, refused to accept the United Nations Partition Plan and instead went to war with Israel. After the war of 1967, Israeli leaders immediately sought to return the newly acquired Sinai and Gaza Strip in exchange for peace. Arab governments including Jordan, Syria and Egypt refused and launched a surprise attack on Israel’s holiest day of the year in 1973.
  Hass claims that Israel disregarded its chance for 
peace by ignoring the Oslo Accords, but she failed to acknowledge several key points. Discussions be-tween Yasser Arafat (chairman of the Palestinian Labor Organization, an organization whose explicit goal was to replace Israel rather than live alongside it) and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin began in 1993. Israel agreed to withdraw from most of the territories in exchange for peace and the PLO’s ac-knowledgment of Israel’s right to exist.
  Yet in 2000 at Camp David, Yasser Arafat choose 
to reject a two-state solution and the second intifada (wave of terrorism) began two months later.
  The Oslo Accords are just one of many examples 
of Israel’s attempts to obtain peaceful relations. Is-raeli soldiers forcibly withdrew Israeli citizens from Gaza and the West Bank in 2005 in order to turn the land over to Palestinians in hopes of peace.
  Since the disengagement, Quassam rockets 
have been ﬁ  red from Gaza into Israeli cities such as Sederot on a nearly daily basis for the past 10 years.
  I do not write this article in an attempt falsify every single one of Hass’s claims. Like any country, Is-rael is not ﬂ  awless. However, it is unique in that it is sur-
rounded on all sides by enemies and must go to greater lengths than any other state to protect its people — both Arabs and Jews.
  Hass justiﬁ  ed suicide bombings and terrorist at-
tacks on Israeli citizens by comparing the situation to South African apartheid. This claim is in need of severe clariﬁ  cation.
  Apartheid was a system in which the minority 
of whites governed the majority black population. Blacks were subjected to social, political and eco-nomic discrimination. Unlike the apartheid system, Israel not only extends citizenship to Arabs but also gives equal protections, rights and liberties to all those citizens.
  Israel is a multi-ethnic democracy, struggling to 
eradicate discrimination, not promote it. 
Furthermore, as of 2011, 13 of the 110 Knesset 
seats and one seat on the Supreme Court are held by Arabs.
  Hass also claims that the security fence construct-
ed by the Israelis in 2003 when terrorist attacks were at their peak is a means of separation and segrega-tion. However, 97 percent is chain-link fence and, most important, terrorist attacks have decreased more than 90 percent since its construction.
  I could write pages addressing each of Hass’s 
claims: refuting, rebutting and clarifying. But un-like Hass, I am not hoping to propagate my views to you. I simply want to present both sides of the issue.
  To eliminate Israel is to eliminate the only de-
mocracy in the Middle East, a country that provides its people with security and health beneﬁ  ts and the world with technology and other incredible re-sources.
  To eliminate Israel is to also eliminate America’s 
one true ally in the region. Today, if you walk down the streets of Tel Aviv, you will pass Arab shops and sit next to Palestinians on the bus. It is abun-dantly clear that there is no systematic oppression in place.
  As students at UF, you all have the opportunity 
to make independent and informed decisions. Do not allow yourselves to be swayed by one speaker. Consider the facts.
  Zoe Beiner is a history freshman at UF. Students should ignore speaker’s rhetoricGuest column
Zoe Beiner
Speaking Out8, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
� THE VIDEO WAS POSTED TUESDAY.
STAFF REPORT
Unite Party members uploaded a video to 
YouTube on Tuesday afternoon of Student 
Body presidential candidate Tj Villamil speak-ing about The Independent Florida Alligator.
The video, posted by “UnitePartyUF” at 
about 1 p.m., had about 850 views as of Tues-day evening and was also posted on the Unite Party’s Facebook page.
In the video, Villamil said he asked the 
“Florida Alligator” to cut its expenses in 2011 in order to increase the funds available for stu-dent organizations by 5 percent.
Villamil could not be reached for comment 
Tuesday evening. 
Christina Bonnarigo, Unite Party spokes-
woman, said she could not clarify or elaborate 
on Villamil’s statements.
Janine Sikes, UF spokeswoman, said the 
Alligator is financially independent from the 
university.
“The University of Florida often purchases 
space for advertising or campus news bulle-tins but provides no subsidy or other financial support to the newspaper,” she wrote in an email Tuesday.
Jeanna Mastrodiacasa, assistant vice presi-
dent of student affairs, said the newspaper’s budget has no effect on the budgets of student organizations.“[The two] are financially and editorially 
totally separate,” she said. 
Jean Chance, chairwoman of the Alligator’s 
board of directors, said the Alligator became independent of the university in 1973 after the editor, Ron Sachs, approved an insert to run with the paper listing the addresses of abor -
tion clinics. Abortion was illegal in Florida at the time, as was printing information about abortion or abortion clinics.
Prior to this, she said, the Florida Alligator, 
as it was then called, had an office in the Reitz Union, was funded by the Students Activities Fee and had a board that was appointed by the UF president. After the insert ran, Sachs was arrested, Chance said. The court ruled in his favor, declaring the state law unconstitutional and a breach of free speech. However, Florida Attorney General Robert Shevin ruled that the Alligator and UF should split.
Following this decision, she said, the paper 
moved off campus and added “independent” to its name.
This independence refers not only to the 
paper’s relationship with UF, but also to the relationship between the newsroom and the business side, said Patricia Carey, general manager of the Alligator.
The newsroom is entirely student-run, with 
52 paid employees. The other departments  — advertising, business, production and pro-
motions — have 22 paid employees and 10 unpaid interns. These people are a mixture of both students and career staff members, Carey said, but the two parts of the Alligator never influence each other’s content.
“There is a strict hands-off policy when it 
comes to the editorial department,” she said. “And it works both ways. Editorial can’t come into advertising and tell us what to run, and we would never come to editorial and say, ‘Write this story about an advertiser.’”
Carey oversees the Alligator’s total operat-
ing expenses and said the newspaper’s budget has been steadily decreasing since 2009.
As a result of the shrinking budget, staff 
has also decreased.
Alligator staff writers Joey Flechas, Emily 
Morrow and Meredith Rutland contributed to this report.Villamil criticizes Alligator in campaign YouTube video
Screenshot pulled from YouTube.com
Tj Villamil, presidential candidate for the Unite Party, speaks in a YouTube video post-
ed Tuesday afternoon.
STudenT governmenT elecTionS
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
The Student Government Elec-
tion Commission advised the UF 
Supreme Court to disqualify several Students Party candidates.
The commission, lead by Mi-
chael Hacker, recommended three Students Party engineering Student Senate candidates — Umair Asghar, Kyle Collins and Max Stein — be disqualified. It also recommended that engineering students’ votes for the Students Party executive ticket not be counted.
However, the final decision will 
fall on the Supreme Court at its meeting on Sunday.
The Unite Party complaint fo-
cused on an unauthorized email sent through an academic list-serv.
The issue of authorization was 
dropped. However, the commis-sion ruled that the Students Party violated the election codes by using IT services for personal commercial purposes. This violates UF’s Accept-able Use Policy.
Students Party treasurer candi-
date Carly Wilson argued that the Acceptable Use Policy states that IT resources can be used for support of student activities.
The Unite Party representatives 
said the Students Party candidates could personally gain from sending the emails.
“I don’t see any grounds to ex-
empt themselves as a political par -
ty,” said Unite Party general council Casey Stamps.
The Unite Party said the Students 
Party sent a campaign email through the Institute of Industrial Engineers list-serv.
The Students Party was also 
found to have violated election codes with two campaign emails that weren’t registered correctly . They were fined $1 per email.
One is still being examined by 
the commission, which is scheduled to meet Friday.
Students Party members said 
they will immediately appeal the decisions.
SG commission hears complaint against Students Party
Facebook status update sparks controversy among sorority members
cane [sic] be: [link to article was provided here]
Please vote for the Students Party. I think you’ll find that a new 
and fair SG administration is just what we need. I tried to be apathetic 
for my entire college career, but reading things like this (and frankly knowing other sneaky tactics) makes me so upset.
And again, in case I wasn’t clear, you should really vote Students 
Party. Because they’re awesome. And democratic. Which is, you know, the way our government, whether university, local or national, should be. Okay. Off my soapbox. :)
Diehl said she knew the post might potentially offend some, 
but was surprised to receive two separate messages from two different sorority sisters. The first, who Diehl asked to remain anonymous, said this: I’m not trying at all to limit your rights to freedom of speech, but since we as a Sigma Kappa chapter en-dorse Unite, your status is contradictory to our chapter views as a whole. It is also very unsisterly , considering we have sisters running on the Unite Party ticket this semester.
If you would like to keep your status as is, I suggest that you 
please remove all of the Sigma Kappa paraphernalia from your profile (including profile pictures with Sigma Kappa shirts, hearts and doves, etc).
Two hours later, Diehl received another message, this time 
from standards chairwoman Meredith Cotton. According to Diehl, the standards chairwoman checks to make sure sisters are not making the sorority look bad, and she would be respon-sible for asking sisters to remove drunk photos or inappropri-ate comments from Facebook.
“They make sure we’re being classy when we exercise our 
First Amendment rights,” Diehl said, laughing.
Cotton’s message: Your election posts are unsisterly and inap-
propriate, especially towards the women that are up for election. While it is great to exercise your freedom of speech, it is also hurtful to have sigma kappa and sisterly posts on your facebook that put down these women and their efforts. Please exercise your freedom of speech in a classy and respectful way, as the women involved in SG have person-ally come to me saying that they feel hurt by your actions.
The messages upset Diehl, she said, especially because she 
was on her own Facebook page, and she said she wasn’t put-ting down anyone in particular, just expressing an opinion.
“When I went into a sorority, I didn’t expect they would try 
to take over your life and limit what you could say or do,” she said. “I just said I support Students Party, I don’t support the Unite Party, and here’s why.”
Diehl said coercion is a big part of the Greek community’s 
way of supporting the Unite Party, and that almost every soror -
ity and fraternity on campus has candidates running for office.
“They never explicitly tell you to vote Unite, but we have 
a Unite Party representative in every house,” she said. “And then we have people running for Unite, we have posters that say Unite, and they say we support Unite. It’s everywhere.”
She said on election day a representative for Unite makes 
sure everyone is voting. Her house and many others have a way of ensuring this.
“We have a board,” she said.The sticker board has all the names of the sisters on it, and for the two days of elections, they get texts and calls remind-ing them to vote. When they do, they are to place an “I voted” sticker next to their name. Doing so gets them points, which are incentives that she said can be used for sorority events like socials.
“And they will literally call you,” she said. “I even have a 
message from our message board that says having an exam is not an excuse tonight. You have to go out and vote.”
The girls are pressured to fill the board the first day, Diehl 
said, and the more stickers, the better. The idea is that if the Unite Party rep sees a full sticker board, it’ll be good for the house.
In addition to the board, Diehl said sisters are expected to 
pass out fliers and campaign for Unite, regardless of the knowl-edge they have of the issues.
“We never sit down and talk about the issues. It’s literally 
shirt, flier,” she said. “In the past I never recall someone com-ing up and explaining the issues. They’re always just, ‘Remem-ber, we support Unite.’ It’s obvious who they want you to vote for.”
The thing that bothers Diehl the most is that she was chas-
tised for stating her opinion.
“To receive such a response, I was kind of shocked and an-
gered, and I don’t really want to be affiliated with people that are going to do that to someone.”
She said she didn’t change her Facebook status, and she 
doesn’t plan on doing it at all. She may be reprimanded again, but she’s adamant about how she feels.
“It’s my Facebook,” she said, “I’m allowed to do that.”
SororiTY , from page 1“I don’t see any grounds 
to exempt themselves as a 
political party.”
Casey Stamps
Unite Party general council WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012  ALLIGATOR, SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION, 1
Zhada A Eaves
Graduate Assistant at GatorWell Health Promotion Services
From unforgettable cross-country trips to volunteer projects, 
spring break has become an undisputed highlight of the spring 
semester. The following is a guide to help you stay safe during your spring break travels:
Travel Safety Tips
• Check the oils and tire pressures in your vehicle.• Drive the speed limit.• If you are tired, pull over. Stop at a rest stop, switch drivers 
if possible.
• Always carry some emergency cash. It can range from ﬁ  ve 
dollars to twenty.
• Keep valuables out of view in your locked vehicle.• Give your itinerary and ways of contacting you to someone 
back home in case of an emergency.Alcohol Tips
• If you chose to drink, try to limit yourself to one drink per 
hour, alternate your drinks with water,and make sure to eat be-fore you drink.
• When you go with friends to a party, have a designated 
driver - someone who will stay sober and drive. You can take turns for other parties.
• Watch who makes your drink, and keep your drink in your 
possession at all times.
• Set a limit on how many drinks you are going to have when 
you drink, and stick to it.
• Get help if someone has any of the signs of alcohol poi-
soning:
 Person is passed out or unresponsive and cannot be 
awakened. Cold, clammy, pale or bluish skin.
 Breathing is slow or irregular, with 10 seconds or more be-
tween breaths. Vomiting while “sleeping” or passed out and not waking after vomiting. Unable to stand or walk without great difﬁ  culty.
Safer Sex Tips
• Plan on using the buddy system with your friends. By com-
ing and leaving together it will help prevent unwanted hook-ups or anyone being left behind.
• If you choose to engage in sexual activities, always use a 
condom and/or dental dam.
• Trust your instincts. If you are uncomfortable, leave the 
situation.
Sun Safety Tips
• Wear sunscreen with at least 15 SPF (sun protection fac-
tor) while outdoors.
• Minimize exposure to the sun during its peak hours, 10am- 
3pm, by wearing hats, sun shades, light clothing, or carrying an umbrella while outdoors.
For information regarding international travel, visit travel.
state.gov. Keep this information in mind and enjoy your vaca-tion!Conquering Spring Break
 HAVE A CONDOM WITH YOU 
WHEREVER YOU GO!
Samantha Evans, MS, CHES
Health Promotion Specialist at GatorWell Health Promotion Services
Accidents can happen: Condoms 
can break because they are past the 
expiration date, stored improperly, or used incorrectly, especially in the heat of the moment. If you’re worried that a condom may break, you may want to keep the following points in mind.
Condoms should never be stored 
in a wallet, car, or direct sunlight be-cause heat, even body heat, weak-ens the condom over time. Oil-based lubricants also cause condoms to break. Instead choose a water or silicone-based lube (Astroglide, Wet, etc) which is safe for use with con-doms and can help prevent break-age by reducing friction.
Never use two condoms at once 
because the friction can cause both condoms to break. When putting the condom on, first check the expira-tion date and squeeze the condom package to ensure it still has an air bubble (if it does not, the package and condom may be punctured). Open the package carefully (no teeth, nails, or scissors). Pinch the tip of the condom to leave space for ejaculation and unroll the condom all the way down.
After sex, hold the base of the 
condom before withdrawing. If you or your partner ever find yourself in a situation where the condom does break there are a few things to con-sider. If pregnancy prevention is a concern, consider following your condom breaking incident with Plan B. Also known as emergency contra-ception, or EC, the high-dose birth control pill is available over-the-counter and can prevent pregnancy if taken within 72 hours. Plan B is most effective when within 24 hours. Women and men over 17 years of age can call a doctor, a health clinic, a pharmacy, or place an overnight order from Drugstore.com without a prescription.
If sexually transmitted infections 
(STI) prevention is a concern, there are some things to consider.
There are different window peri-
ods, or time it takes for the STI to be detected in a persons’ system, so the timing of testing is important. When it does come time to test, there are some reasonably priced or even free options to consider on campus or in the Gainesville community.
Free confidential HIV testing for 
UF students is available on campus at the GatorWell main office (352-273-4450) by appointment only. HIV testing is also available at the Alach-ua County Health Department (352-334-7960) for an optional $20 fee and at the Student Health Care Cen-ter (392-1161) for a fee ranging from $25-40. The Student Health Care Center, Alachua County Health De-partment, and Planned Parenthood of North Florida (352-377-0881) also offer testing for other STIs and pric-ing is usually determined by a slid-ing scale fee or based on your insur-ance.
The Alachua County Health De-
partment also offers free walk-in HIV and STI testing (including Chlamyd-ia, Gonorrhea and Syphilis) on the first and third Thursday of the month at the Pride Community Center of Gainesville (4-6pm) and Body Tech Tattoo Parlor (8-11pm).
Always Be PreparedTips for a safer vacation with your friends
ACADEMICS
Sara Martin, MS, CHES
Health Promotion Specialist at GatorWell Health 
Promotion Services
Many college students have very busy 
schedules and the pressure of being aca-demically successful can be great, so being able to manage your time is essential! In fact, according to a 2010 Healthy Gators survey, UF students reported that effectively manag-ing their time was “very important” to their academic success.
Indeed, learning how to manage your 
time helps increase productivity and reduces procrastination, both of which can improve academic success. So how do you turn this knowledge into action?
1. Assess how you are currently using 
your time. For 2-3 days, keep a time log of what you do during the day and how long you spend doing it. Afterwards, look for trends. Identify which activities are important (see #2) and which are time wasters.
2. Know what’s important! Prioritize your 
daily and weekly tasks. Then, organize your time according to your priorities. Higher prior-ity tasks should come ﬁ  rst.
3. Make time to manage time. Set aside 
consistent time in your schedule to organize how you will use your time. This can be done on a daily, weekly, monthly, and even whole-semester basis.
There are a wide variety of tools that can 
be used to help with this including planners, calendars, phone apps, “to do” lists. Pick whatever works for you and your organiza-tion style.
4. Minimize distractions. Identify what 
your common distractors and time wasters are. Then, come up with a plan to minimize these where possible. This may mean study-ing in a different environment, turning off the TV and/or computer, putting your phone on silent, or even setting aside speciﬁ  c times of the day that you will not answer the phone or hang-out with friends.
5. Learn to say NO! Sometimes it feels 
like you do not have enough time in the day to get everything done because… YOU DON’T. If 24 hours rarely seems like enough time, then you may be putting too much on your plate. Sound familiar? Identify current activi-ties that are not priorities and decrease them or cut them out completely. In the future, be-fore you say yes to something new, ask your-self it if realistically ﬁ  ts in with your priorities and time. If you do take on something new, think about cutting something else out of your schedule.
6. Make time for yourself! Living a bal-
anced life is important to your overall wellbe-ing. Schedule time to take care of yourself and manage your stress. Take breaks while studying, relax at the end of a long day, or schedule in activities that you enjoy doing such as volunteering, hiking, dancing, go-ing to sporting events, or spending time with friends.
For more information about time manage-
ment or to learn how to schedule an appoint-ment with a wellness coach to work on time management, visit GatorWell’s website at ga-torwell.ufsa.uﬂ  .edu.
Managing Time for 
Academic Success
FUN & FITNESS
2, SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION , ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
E. Maureen Miller, MPH, CHES
Coordinator for Alcohol and Other Drug Preven-
tion at GatorWell Health Promotion Services
Recently at GatorWell we asked Univer-
sity of Florida students to provide us feed-
back about what specific questions they had about health. The following are two of your alcohol questions that we thought were especially great and our answers:
Q1. What should I do when everyone 
around me is drinking and I don’t wish to drink?
First of all, if you choose not to drink, you 
are not alone. At UF, over 17,000 students choose not to drink alcohol. The decision of when, where, and why you drink is yours. It should not be dependent on the drinking habits of those around you. Remember that it is always okay to say no to a drink. Be polite but firm in your refusal. You can also carry around a non-alcoholic drink such as juice, soda, tea, and water.
Keep busy-make conversation, enjoy 
the meal or appetizers, take photos with other guests, or dance with your friends. Offer to be the sober designated driver. Ex-plain your reasons for not drinking or make an excuse such as you’re allergic to alco-hol, you have a test or project the next day, you have to get up early the next morning, you don’t want to spend the money, you’ve been sick and taking antibiotics, or it is con-trary to your religious beliefs. 
Regardless of what you say, the deci-
sion to not drink is your own and it should be respected by your friends.
Q2. Is there any way to know if drugs 
have been slipped into your drink at your party?
It is important to remember that alcohol 
itself is the cheapest type of drug. It is also quite accessible and readily available. It is easy to lose track of how many drinks you have consumed and quickly raise your Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC) to over the legal limit of .08. 
Further, if an individual has passed out 
from drinking too much, legally they cannot give their consent for sexual activity. There is really no way to detect if an additional drug has been slipped into your drink. Most drugs are odorless, colorless, and taste-less. If a drug such as Rohypnol, Ketamine, 
or GHB has been slipped into your drink, you will experience the effects almost im-mediately including a sleepy, relaxed, and drunk feeling that lasts anywhere between 2 to 8 hours. 
These types of drugs combined with 
alcohol can also result in amnesia, respi-ratory depression, and death. Ways to de-crease your risk include the following:
§ Get a fresh drink if you have left your 
drink unattended.§ Never accept drinks from someone you 
don’t know, even if it is an acquaintance§ Watch the bartender or server make 
your drink§ Use the “buddy system” to watch out 
for friends§ Never leave a party or club with some-
one you do not know well and trust§ Be alert to any unusual behavior 
around you.§ If you suspect your drink has been 
drugged, seek medical help as soon as possible.
For more information about alcohol, to-
bacco, and other drugs, visit GatorWell’s 
website at gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu.
You Asked, We Answered
 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION , 3
PHYSICAL ACTIVITY
Lauren Witbart
Graduate Assistant at GatorWell Health Promotion Services
Incorporating physical activity into your day can be a 
healthy habit that benefits every aspect of your life including 
stress levels, mood, energy, weight management, and sleep. According of a 2010 University of Florida Healthy Gators sur-vey students ranked “exercise/fitness” as their fourth great-est health concern.
Sound relatable?The US Department of Health and Human Services rec-
ommends that “Adults should do at least 2 hours and 30 minutes each week of aerobic physical activity at a moderate level.” 
Examples of moderate physical activities include walking 
briskly to class, dancing, biking, and swimming.
 A good rule of thumb to know if you are working at a 
moderate level is that you should be able to talk while partici-pating in these activities, but not sing. Here are some tips to help you get started or increase your current level of physical activity:
1. You don’t have to leave your house.
§ Get up during commercials and study breaks and do 
some jump-jacks, sit-ups, or push-ups.§  Use technology. Try Wii fitness, Kinect, YouTube fitness videos, or fitness DVDs like P90X.
2. Change your daily routines.§  Park at the end of the parking lot and use that opportu -
nity to add physical activity to your errands.Chores count too- vacuum, dust, mop, scrub, they all get you moving.§  Bike to campus.§ Walk to that next class rather than taking the bus.§  Use a pedometer to track your daily steps- everything counts!
3. Get Social!
§ Get an exercise buddy that will keep you motivated..§ Grab a couple friends and take a trip out to Lake Wau-berg.§  Join an intermural team, club team, or student organi-
zation. From sailing to table tennis, quidditch to dance, there are lots of activities to try out on campus.
4. Try New Things .
§  The Gainesville Rock Gym offers a fun rock climbing experience.§ UF Rec Sports, community gyms and centers, and even the Alachua County Public Library offer unique group classes such as Bosu, Country Line Dance, Dance Fu-sion, Yoga and Zumba.§ If you’re up for a little adventure, The Lake Alice walk-ing/biking path, Paynes Prairie StatePreserve, Morningside Trails, and/or San Felasco Ham-mock Preserve are fun options to experience nature while getting in some physical activity.5. Other Tips.
§ Gradually build new activities or longer time spent exer-cising into your routine.§  Feel proud of your accomplishments and celebrate your successes! Use an app to keep track.§ Keep at it! Try new things until you find an activity that is both challenging and fun. The more you incorporate physical activity into your daily routine, the more you will start to feel the benefits of it.Get a friend, set up a couple times you’re available during 
the week, and get moving UF! For more information, visit http://www.choosemyplate.gov/physical-activity/what.html and http://gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/ Nutrition.aspx
Get Up to Get Down with Fitness
4, SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION , ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
SUN SAFETY
Provided by the UF Student Health Care 
Center
Gainesville’s cold and wet winter has 
made basking in the sun a priority for many 
students this spring break. But most want sun-kissed skin, not a trip to the emergency room.
Before you hit the beach, follow these 
recommendations to protect yourself from painful, harmful sunburn:
1. Protect yourself from the sun during 
the most intense times of 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Plan outside activities for the early morning or late afternoon.
2. Choose a sunscreen with a sun pro-
tection factor (SPF) of 30 and higher. SPF only refers to protection against ultraviolet B (UVB) rays, so read the label to ensure you are protected against both ultraviolet A (UVA) and UVB rays.
3. Apply sunscreen at least 30 minutes 
prior to sun exposure and reapply frequently. If you are particularly sensitive to the sun, wear sun-protective clothing, a hat and sun-glasses to protect your eyes.
There are many prescription and over-the-
counter products that can make you more susceptible to sunburn. Use extra precaution if you are taking these or any other medica-tions, which may enhance sun sensitivity in some individuals: birth control (tablets, ring or patch); antibiotics commonly prescribed for acne or urinary tract infections (UTIs); non-steroidal pain relievers (NSAIDS) such as ibuprofen (Advil®) or naproxen (Aleve®); and/or cholesterol-lowering agents (“sta-tins”).
Even ingredients in certain sunscreens 
can cause photosensitivity in some people. Avoid sunscreens that contain benzophe-nones (dioxybenzone and oxybenzone), para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA), salicylates and cinnamates.
If prevention fails and you become sun-
burned, it is important to treat the burn prop-erly:
1. The extent of the burn will not be ap-
parent until 12-24 hours after sun exposure. Keep the skin cool and moist by applying cool compresses. If skin is blistered, leave the blisters intact.
2. Avoid tight clothing and apply moistur-
izer or aloe gel to hydrate the skin. Avoid any topical products which contain numbing agents (for example, lidocaine, benzocaine or dibucaine) because you could become al-lergic to these products.
3. DO NOT apply ointments or butter to a 
burn as this will likely cause further damage to the skin.
4. Drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehy-
dration.
5. Pain relievers such as acetaminophen 
(Tylenol®), ibuprofen (Advil®) and naproxen (Aleve®) can help with the discomfort and fe-ver that may accompany sunburn. Antihista-mines such as cetirizine (Zyrtec®), loratidine (Claritin®) or diphenhydramine (Benadryl®) can help with the itchiness that often accom-panies sunburn.
6. Seek medical attention if you experi-
ence a fever higher than 102° F, chills, dizzi-ness or nausea.
If you have any questions or concerns, 
make an appointment with your UF Student Health Care Center primary care provider. For more information about sun protection and skin cancer prevention, visit the Skin Cancer Foundation’s website at www.skin-cancer.org.
Information provided by the UF Student 
Health Care Center, www.shcc.ufl.eduDon’t let the sun burn 
your spring break fun
Provided by GatorWell Health     
Promotion Services
When you think of college stu-
dents’ eating patterns, do you picture 
nutritious, balanced meals? Or is the image filled with fast food, pizza, and eating ramen until you can’t stand to look at it ever again?
For many students the reality is 
somewhere in between and for good reasons. Dr. Brian Wansink at Cornell University found that the average per-son makes more than 250 food-relat-ed decisions a day.
While studying why people choose 
the foods they do, Dr. Karen Glanz found that taste, cost and often conve-nience outweigh nutrition. When you are making many daily food decisions in the context of an irregular, packed schedule and a tight college budget, it is easy to see why cost and conve-nience can trump nutrition. 
What can you do if you want tasty, 
healthy food when time and money are in short supply? The trick is mak-ing nutritious choices both convenient and attractive so that the decision is an easy one.
Pack a Snack. Snacking is often a 
key source of fuel for busy days and late night study sessions, but the
cost can add up quickly if you have 
to buy snacks when hunger strikes. Have a stock of go-to snacks on hand:
• Pack a banana, apple, carrot sticks or grapes – a great and inex-pensive way to get some extra fruit and vegetable servings in.• Make your own trail mix at home with nuts, dried fruit, cereal and chocolate chips for a satisfying snack that is easy to pack. You can change it up each week to fit your tastes and ingredients that are on sale.• Bring a peanut butter sandwich for a low cost snack that can keep you going until your next meal.
Eating on Campus. One of the 
keys to eating well on campus is know-
ing your options. Take a look around the dining locations that are most con-venient for your schedule or check out Gator Dining’s website for a guide to smart food choices at locations across campus.
• At the dining halls, stop by the sal-ad bar to round out your meal with a few favorite veggies.• At eateries like Subway and Moe’s Southwest Grill take advantage of the option to add extra veggies to your sandwich or entree for free.• Look for substitutions like brown rice, whole grain bread or vege-table side dishes to easily pack in some extra nutrients.
At the Grocery Store. Sticking to a 
grocery list and buying only what you 
know you will use can reduce unpleas-ant surprises at the register.
• Opt for items that you can enjoy for multiple meals. Canned black beans, chicken breast, cheese, sal-sa, tortillas, and lettuce are loaded with vitamins, minerals, fiber, and protein. Turn them into burritos, quesadillas, and a taco salad.• Weigh cost versus convenience. Throwing out a ton of produce that you bought with the best of inten-tions can leave you rethinking fu-ture purchases. If you are more likely to use the pre-cut fruit or bagged salad, the extra expense may be worth it in the long run.• Consider trying a new recipe with friends and roommates. Splitting up the ingredient costs and prep time can make it more manageable and you can all enjoy the leftovers.
With these strategies, you can help 
make your 250+ food decisions a little 
easier. Visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu for more healthy eating tips.
Wanted! Tasty, Healthy 
Options When Time & 
Money are Tight
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
Need 4 students for 4 bedroom, 4 bath, fully 
furnished Condo $350 per month per student, includes utilities at Univ Terrace West 3800 SW 20th Ave 352-586-6468. Requires 1 year lease starting Aug 15th.   2-23-12-12-1
OPEN HOUSE
From 2-6pm  on   February 23rd
Tour our Newly Remodeled 4/4’s
*Prizes *Free Food *Music
Their going fast! 352.379.9300
4-25-12-43-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Only $1149! Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-28-12-36-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2bed/1bath Sun Key units starting at $550
2BR/1.5BA Sun Harbor units starting at
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Receive Summer discounts when you
sign a 15 month lease!!!!
Contact our office to inquire about
student specials!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2BR/1BA close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    2-29-12-35-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-2-12-29-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   2-29-12-25-22, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   2-29-11-27-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE
Prestigious Bivens Arm. 5BR house, Pool, & Dock. Bike or walk to Shands & UF. Serious grad students preferred. $2500/mo. Call 619-857-9903    2-22-12-20-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #3. Please call 352-371-3473 leave message.       2-22-12-20-2
Trend’s Student House of the Month!
2710 NW 2nd Ave
302 NW 4th Ave
Amazing 3 bedroom Historic House  
Brand New Kitchen and Hardwood Floors
Close to UF Text “Trend” to 313131 for 
More Details
Trend4Rent.com
2-24-20-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor Townhouses $525
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
1bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $475!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
2-23-12-15-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available NOW.REDUCED to $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183   2-29-12-15-2
ONE Block to UF-Available 8/1/2012-2/2.5 
bath townhouse,w,d,dishwsh, guaranteed parking, wood floors VERY cute-1017 SW 1st Avenue www.forrentgainesville.com or 514-4915. Only 3 units remain!!!    3-14-12-20-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 2-27-11-40-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
2BR2BA  Condo  in Turkey Creek
Carpet, Dishwasher, Laundry Hkups,Close to Alachua & Gainesville 11426 NW 67th Terrace  $800/Mo  
2BR 1BA Garage Apt in Duckpond Area
Wood Floors, Laundry, Central H & Air726 NE 4th Street $800 /Mo
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF, 
Carpet, Central H & Air, CarpetLaundry., Inclds Wtr and Swg. $800/MoCan reserve for Summer or Fall now.Grad II 1236 SW 4th Avenue
2BR 1BA Apt Robert Obrien Apts
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat Gas HtNear Sams Club/Walmart  $500/Mo2901 NW 14th Street
2BR 1BA House in Oaks of Kanapaha
4845 SW 57th Drive $725/MoCarpet, Central H & Air, Laundry hkupsOff Archer Rd. 
Effeciency across from UF Stadium
2 Rooms, no kitchen, just Frig and sinkshared bathroom.  Most people bring in a hotplate or microwave $295/Mo 2-24-12-9-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
$19.99 to sign and $100 credit
4/4’s starting @ $329
Text “SANTAFE” to 47464 for more!
Now Leasing for FALL!
4-25-12-43-2
4/2 apt close to campus 1740 NW 3rd PL
Early signing discount-have 4 people and sign by 2/29 monthly rent 275/room. No Pets. 1 year leases 352-231-3002 www.hodgeprop.com    2-27-12-4-2
Large Homes in NW For RENT
4-7 bdrm $1600 - $2.5K/mo (~$400/room)
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
3-13-12-10-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099       3-13-12-10-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Lovely 3/3, individual lease @ Campus 
Lodge, females only. Two great roommates. $459/mo, first floor, next to pool, see cam-puslogdeuf.com for rent/amenity details. Email azanotelli121@aol.com   2-28-2-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
SWM looking for roommate to share 2 story 
condo. Unfurnished 250 sft bedroom/prvt bath with access to furnished kitchen/living room.Located on Tower Rd 4 blocks S of Newberry RdEmsil: eleeng075@netscape.net   2-28-12-10-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
We Buy Cell Phones & other Electronics 
(iPads,iPods,Gaming Systems,Laptops.)Working or Not ! We Unlock & Repair PhonesTechmodo 6450 SW Archer RD(352)872-5881                 2-29-18-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I Buy Cars & Trucks
★ Call Anytime ★ 352-443-1100
3-13-12-20-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
97 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $699902 TOYOTA CAMRY $699904 CHEVY ASTRO $6999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
04 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $799902 HONDA ODYSSEY $799901 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,99906 SATURN ION $11,99907 FORD MUSTANG $12,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
We buy unwanted vehicles with or without 
title any condition,make,year or model we pay up to $20,000 and offer free towing call 813-516-0847    2-28-20-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  2-24-12-8-13
16, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
DONOR WANTED:
African-American undergoing IVF treatment with leading IVF Center seeking dark com-plexion African-American female egg donor between 21-28 years old. Must be able to pass background screening:  personal health history, family health history, psychological, drug and genetic testing. Past or current smokers do not apply.  Except for birth con-trol pills, egg donor cannot be on ANY medi-cation. Will pay $4,000 plus all IVF expenses including legal counseling.  Please send full length color photo to: 2614 North Tamiami Trail #311, Naples, FL 34103. Include: Name, D.O.B., mailing address, e-mail ad-dress, and PH #. Thank you in advance for your consideration.   2-22-1-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
We have the following
full and part time positions:●Tech Support Rep●Software Developer●Linux Administrator●Admin Asst●ACT/SAT Coordinator●Video Tech●Aviation Sales●Accounting EditorPlease complete an online application at www.gleim.com/employment.     3-2-12-15-14
Receptionist needed for professional sup-
portive office environment FT 8-5 M-F 10.00 per hour Please Email resume toCorey@mssgainesville.com    2-24-12-7-14Sales Asst/Customer Svc Rep
Apply in person at
Tomlinson Motor Company, 3580 N Main St$10/hr, part time 15-20 hrs/wk - flexible.     2-23-12-6-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION FT
ECG DepartmentPlease apply in personInstitute of Veterinary Spec3603 NW 98th St. Suite A         2-22-5-14   
RECEPTION POSITION
FTPlease apply in personInstitute of Veterinary Spec3603 NW 98th St Suite A         2-22-5-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    3-1-12-10-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer day camp pro-gram. Positions in the camp are available in our Pre-Kindergarten, Kindergarten, and our elementary school age day camps offered at Oak Hall. A total of 8 FT and PT counselor positions plus 2 FT Head Counselor positions are available for the summer. Individuals for the day camp should be available to work daily from June 11-July 27. Interested ap-plicants should submit a resume to Maggie Martin via e-mail at mmartin@oakhall.org by March 16th. Interview information regarding group interview on March 17th will be sent out upon receipt.   3-16-12-15-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. Apply in person @ 2906 NW 13Tth St. 352-372-1226 sandysresale.com   2-27-5-14
!!ATTN SMOKERS!! You're needed to par-
ticipate in a study conducted by the UF Smoking Lab assessing effects of exercise on cravings, withdrawal, and/or smoking. Compensation provided!! Call 336-406-3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    3-23-19-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring 
Bartenders/Deli Help. Accepting apps at both 5156 S W 34th St and 2327 N W 13th St locations. Must have reliable transporta-tion and some daytime availability.   2-28-12-5-14
Wanted: Experienced Tumbling Coach
For beginner to advanced tumbling classes.front rolls to fulls. Must be able to spot high school age kids in running tumbling skills. Part time. Competitive pay. 352-222-9977   2-28-12-5-14
Piano accompanist to play song for worship 
services as well as accompanying choir. Wednesday Choir rehearsal attendance is mandatory as well as Sunday morning wor-ship. Email pastorharry@celebrationgnv.org   3-1-12-7-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    2-29-12-33-15
MIT Mathematics Graduate. TUTORING 
available for HIGH SCHOOL and COLLEGE STUDENTS. Taught last semester at UF. E-mail/call for REFERENCES and RATES. (352) 519-8974 and avila@alum.mit.edu   2-27-12-10-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    3-23-12-20-15
BUSINESS OWNERS AND MOTHERS 
Gavin Doran Photography is prepared to capture the essence of your business or family.Get a competitive advantage & create memories.Email hunter@gavindoran.com   2-28-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16HAPPY HOUR @ CHAMPAGNE SALON
$10 Eyebrow Threading
1109 W. University Ave. 215-2873   2-24-5-
20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Special February and March Rates- $99 
Advanced Cardiac Life Support and $35 Basic Life Support(BLS)(CPR).American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.    3-20-12-18-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
VIBRAM FIVE FINGERS
Extensive selection of Vibram Five Fingers 
shoes - Many styles on sale right now. If you haven't tried them you really should! LloydClarkeSports.com. Just 1 mile north of UF on 13 St.     3-2-8-18
FLIP FLOPS GALORE
Excellent selection of flip flops - many on 
sale now - Reef, Teva, Sanuk, Roxy, Chaco,  Q.S. - Spring Break Necessity! Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.   3-2-8-18
FREE GAIT ANALYSIS
Come run on our treadmill and let us fit you 
right for your next running shoes. 36 years locally owned. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.    3-2-8-18
SHOP LOCAL & ONLINE
NEED ATHLETIC GEAR, SHOES, SANDALS & other casual wear but want parents to buy for you? Our entire store is online with local pickup available. Free shipping too! Find us on facebook. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.     3-2-8-18
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Transcendental Meditation Technique: A 
free Introductory Lecture, Sunday, Feb. 26, 1pm at the Hampton Inn, Arredondo Room, 101 S.E. 1st Ave, Gainesville, FL 32601. Questions: 352-338-1249 orabyxbe@tm.org, Allan Byxbe.   2-24-12-8-20
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
alligatorSports.org
Make sure to visit the website for additional coverage 
of Gators sports. You can also follow us on Twitter with the handle: @alligatorSports.Florida catcher Brittany Schutte has been excelling in the cleanup role for the Gators, pulling in multiple weekly honors. See story, page 18.  
� NO. 1 FLORIDA BEAT BETHUNE-COOK-
MAN, 8-6, ON TUESDAY AT MCKETHAN STADIUM.
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Preston Tucker’s first four plate appearances 
Tuesday didn’t go as planned.
Florida’s right fielder started the game 0 for 4 
at the plate, with two groundouts and a pair of fly 
balls. 
But with the score tied and the bases loaded 
in the bottom of the eighth inning, Tucker finally came through.
The Gators’ slugger ripped a single to right-
center field to plate Cody Dent for what proved to be the game-winning run as No. 1 Florida downed Bethune-Cookman, 8-6, in the team’s first mid-week game of the season.
“You gotta put bad at-bats behind you,” Tuck-
er said. “I just grinded out that last at-bat, put the 
ball in play and good things happened.”
The go-ahead RBI moved 
Tucker to within one of tying former Florida great Brad Wilk-erson for the Gators’ all-time career record of 214. He nearly tied the record on the eighth-inning single, but Florida held 
shortstop Nolan Fontana at third.
That didn’t prevent the Gators from tacking 
on an insurance run two at-bats later, when Brian Johnson came through with a sacrifice fly to put Florida (3-1) ahead.
“As long as we got one in I was fine,” Tucker 
said. 
“I knew we had [Mike Zunino] behind me and 
then Brian. I knew either way we were going to get at least one more across.”
Tucker’s late-inning heroics overshadowed a 
big night at the plate from Zunino, who started at designated hitter while Southeastern Conference Freshman of the Week Taylor Gushue got the start at catcher. 
Without the worries of calling a game, Zunino 
belted two solo home runs and extended his hit-ting streak to eight games dating back to last sea-son.
Although Zunino hit .417 during opening JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Brad Beal could not repeat what he 
heard at halftime in Florida’s locker 
room.Neither would Kenny Boynton, nor 
Erving Walker.
“Coach was mad as I-don’t-know 
what,” Beal said. “He said words we can’t even describe.”
Billy Donovan didn’t delve into too many details either, but he did have the right to dish out an unpleasant speech midway through No. 12 Florida’s 63-47 win against Auburn (14-13, 4-9 South-eastern Conference) on Tuesday night in the O’Connell Center. 
The Gators (22-6, 10-3 SEC) spent 
their first 20 minutes turning the ball over 12 times and trailed by three at halftime. By the end of the game, Flor-ida had 18 turnovers — a season-high at home. 
Beal accounted for four, following 
a six-turnover outing Saturday against Arkansas.
Not since committing 20 in a Dec. 2 
loss to Syracuse have the Gators given away possessions so freely.  
Donovan said he spoke to his play-
ers about their families perhaps watch-ing in the stands or former players like Joakim Noah or Mike Miller seeing the game on TV . At least one former Dono-van player, 1996-1999 guard Greg Stolt, was actually in the building.
“What’s their feeling right now?” 
Donovan said. “Those guys gave their heart and soul to this program and that’s the way you’re representing our program right now with your effort and focus and everything else?”
Though the Gators made their first 
six attempts of the night and shot bet-ter than 50 percent from the field and behind the arc for the second straight game, Donovan felt the good shooting performance didn’t cover up a lack of focus.
He brought up Walker, who scored 
13 points and grabbed a team-high sev-en rebounds, as an example. With eight seconds left in the first, he clanked a long 3-point shot off the rim and then failed to get back in transition. Au-burn’s Chris Denson was able to drive the length of the court and lay in a shot at the buzzer, sealing the first-half lead for the Tigers.
“Erving Walker’s going to shoot with 
eight seconds to go at the end of the half and then he’s going to look up at the clock and hope the clock runs out,” Donovan said. “Are you kidding me? So I don’t think that, for me as coach, that it’s that outrageous to ask.” 
When the Gators finally emerged for 
the second half, they clearly took Dono-van’s message to heart. Florida dished out eight assists in the final stanza af-ter only having five in the first. UF also cut its turnover rate in half with just six giveaways.
After trading the lead 13 times, the 
Gators were finally able to pull away courtesy of a 15-2 run sparked by a 
David Carr / Alligator
UF freshman Brad Beal scored 13 points and grabbed six rebounds in Tuesday’s 
win, but he also accounted for four turnovers after committing six Saturday. 
see BAseBALL, p Age 20
see hoops, p Age 18Donovan speech inspires UF comeback
Yeguete ruled out indefinitely
Tucker
Quotable
“It wasn’t pleasant. ... I wouldn’t want my kids to hear it.” 
Erving Walker
UF point guard 
(on Billy Donovan’s halftime speech Tuesday)
Tucker’s game-
winner outshines two-homer night from Zunino JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
 
In the Gators’ first homestand of the 
season, Brittany Schutte not only outper -
formed every player in the Southeastern 
Conference, but every player in the nation.
The junior catcher earned the honors 
of Southeastern Conference Player of the Week and National Fastpitch Coaches As-sociation Division I National Player of the Week for her play against Jacksonville and Michigan State.
In four games, Schutte racked up nine 
straight hits after grounding out in her first at-bat against Jacksonville. Batting cleanup for Florida, she also knocked in six runs, including two home runs on back-to-back days.
“Brittany works hard at her game and is 
her own biggest critic,” Florida coach Tim Walton said. 
“Last week, she was locked in and swung 
at good pitches. When you hit fourth for the Gators, you get everyone’s attention and I truly appreciate the way Brittany has han-dled the pressure. Brittany Schutte is fun to watch and I am very proud of what she brings to the game.”
After setting the UF single-season record 
in home runs last year, Schutte has picked up where she left off. 
Nine games into the season, Schutte 
leads her team with a .560 batting average. She is also tops in five other offensive cat-egories and ranks second in hits, runs and RBI.
Before the Gators kicked off their sea-
son, Schutte expressed her goals during media day.
“More than anything I think I have more individual expectations,” Schutte said. “I just want to come through, since I’m one of the upperclassmen now and one of the older players, considering how young our team is. I just want to do what I’ve been do-ing, and even get better in all aspects of the game.”
Although Florida is only two weeks into 
a nearly four-month season, there have been signs that Schutte has evolved from being just a power-hitting catcher to a more complete hitter.
At this point, Schutte is on pace for 86 
regular-season hits this year, 25 more than she had in an extended 2011 season that fea-tured a run to the Women’s College World Series finals. She is also projected to collect five more RBI, eight more stolen bases and 10 more doubles. 
Of course, Schutte has not forgotten the 
staple of her game: home runs.
In back-to-back games, Schutte showed 
off her power, sending a softball over the fence in each contest. However, she said it’s not her goal to break her own single-season home run record, but just go out and be-come an all-around better hitter.
“No [goals] numbers-wise or statistics,” 
Schutte said. 
“I just want to be able to, when I’m 
called upon in certain situations, be able to succeed in those and come through in those for my team and probably cut down on the strikeouts, if anything.”18, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
David Carr / Alligator
Florida catcher and cleanup hitter Brittany Schutte won two awards this week after re-
cording a hit in nine straight at-bats and driving in six runs during last week’s games.
Schutte receives national recognition for standout weekend
David Carr / Alligator
Florida sophomore forward Will Yeguete is out indefinitely 
after suffering a broken left foot in Tuesday’s game.
Yeguete suffers broken left foot in second
Beal 3-pointer at the 12:52 mark. Beal, 
a freshman, scored 13 points and hauled in six rebounds.
For a veteran guard like Boyn-
ton, who had a team-high 20 points on 6-of-9 shooting from three, seeing Donovan angry wasn’t a novel expe-rience like it was for Beal. Though, it still was beneficial.
“I’ve seen him like that a couple 
times,” Boynton said. “He needed to get on us though. I think it helped us. We came out in the second half and we came with some intensity.”
Despite losing sophomore forward Will Yeguete for the indefinite future to a broken left foot with 11:11 left to play, the Gators were able to clamp 
down defensively and hold the Tigers to just 17 points in the second half. 
After Auburn hit 
half of its 10 shots from behind the 3-point line in the first, it made just 1 
of 7 in the second half and ended the night shooting 33.3 percent from the field. 
In his postgame press conference, 
Donovan said Yeguete’s injury will force UF to overhaul its lineup and use several players out of position.
The 6-foot-7 Yeguete had just re-
turned to Florida’s lineup Saturday against Arkansas following a one-game absence due to suffering his second concussion of the year.
“We’re banged up right now,” 
Donovan said. “We’ve got some health issues that we need to get back healthier than we are right now, but it’s nothing major. 
“Will’s would be major because 
if it is broken, I would say that he’s done for the year.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.
HOOPS , from page 17“When you hit fourth for the 
Gators, you get everyone’s attention 
and I truly appreciate the way Brit-
tany has handled the pressure.”
Tim Walton
UF softball coach 
Turnovers Hoops Graphic
TOs          Assists                              Result                                       Date
20              15                      LOSS 69-72  at Syracuse                        
18              14                      LOSS 83-85  (2OT) at Rutgers              
18              13                      WIN 63-47 vs. Auburn                        
16              11                      LOSS 74-81 at Ohio State                   15               9                       LOSS 70-75  vs. Tennessee                  
15              10                      LOSS 56-67  at Tennessee                    
15              19                      WIN 78-65  vs. Wright State                 Dec. 2 Dec. 29Feb. 21Nov. 15Feb. 11Jan. 7Nov. 21
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator StaffDonovan
LANDON WATNICK
Alligator Writer
 
While most of the Gators prac-
ticed their routines with the coach-
ing staff last fall, Rachel Spicer had one less semester to prepare for the upcoming season.
Spicer, a 17-year-old from Tex-
as, was one of three freshmen to join the UF gymnastics team last December. 
She signed her National Let-
ter of Intent with Florida in No-vember, but elected to graduate early from Marcus High in Flower Mound, Texas, to enroll for the  spring semester.
“Here I don’t really notice my 
age and being young because ev-eryone is so close,” said Spicer, who turns 18 in June. “Sometimes I take an advantage from that be-cause they have so many more experiences than me, and they can help me in that aspect.” 
Spicer joined the team on Dec. 
26 and saw action 11 days later in all four events during UF’s season opener against North Carolina State. 
In her debut, Spicer scored 9.75 
on balance beam, 9.725 on floor exercise, 9.7 on vault and a 9.65 on an uneven bars exhibition.
“They had to have at least 
trusted me a little bit because I got to compete in all of the events at my first meet,” Spicer said. “They just believed in me, even though I hadn’t been here very long.”
Spicer entered UF with ex-
perience as a member of the Ju-nior Olympic National team and Metroplex Gymnastics, her elite-level club. 
Still, it took her a couple of 
weeks to get used to the physi-cally draining pace of collegiate gymnastics.   
“I was like, ‘Oh my gosh, this is 
going to be so hard,’” Spicer said. “But I think for being so young, I’ve done a pretty good job just figuring out myself how to do things.”
Throughout the remainder of 
January, Spicer gradually saw less action than she did against the Wolfpack due to a sore calf. 
But in the past two meets, 
Spicer has been a big contributor for the Gators, competing in six events and one exhibition. 
Against LSU on Feb. 10, she tal-
lied a 9.85 on floor and beam, and she added a 9.8 on vault. 
Last weekend at Auburn, Spicer 
struggled on floor (9.75) due to a strained groin muscle, but still managed to record career bests on beam (9.875) and vault (9.85). 
“She came up just a little bit 
short on her final tumbling pass on floor,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. “But the way she performed, the way she competed — she stuck her vault again and her beam, just no wobbles. Knowing that, doing a really limited number, she did a great job being out there [last Fri-day] competing consistently.”
Spicer said she hopes to com-
pete in at least three events when No. 1 Florida hosts No. 3 Georgia to close out its Southeastern Con-ference slate Friday night.
“All of my hard work started 
to pay off [last Friday],” Spicer said. “But I just need to work on my endurance and I’ll be back and ready.” WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 19
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida junior attacker Kitty Cullen highlighted UF’s success in yellow-card situa-
tions with a man-down goal Sunday against Maryland-Baltimore County.
David Carr / Alligator
Gators freshman gymnast Rachel Spicer skipped her final semester of high school to enroll in UF at age 
17. She posted career bests on beam (9.875) and vault (9.85) Friday against Auburn.  
GYMNASTICS
Florida’s Spicer, 17, having impact after early arrivalJOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators want to play like they have the 
upper hand even when they don’t.
A change to the carding rules in women’s 
lacrosse this season has put teams in situa-
tions where they often have to play with a man advantage or disadvantage. Florida had its most impressive performance of the sea-son in these uneven situations on Sunday in an 18-6 win at Maryland-Baltimore County.
After converting on less than 50 percent of 
their man-up opportunities in their first two games of the season, the Gators capitalized on both Retriever yellow cards in Sunday’s win.
“It’s something we need to continue to 
work on,” coach Amanda O’Leary said of playing a man up. “Opportunities are going to arise where we are going to be in those situations.”
O’Leary said Florida’s success when play-
ing with a man advantage is predicated on quickly finding the unmarked player.
“It’s just really good ball movement,” 
O’Leary said. “It’s very similar to basketball. You got to move the ball quickly and effi-ciently and that person has to put the ball in the back of the net.”
Under the previous rule, the offending 
team could still keep seven players in the ac-tive third of the field while having just three players outside of that third. 
The new rule prevents the penalized team 
from moving a player up on offense or back on defense, forcing them to play 7-on-6 la-crosse during the time the carded player is out. 
With UF on the advantage, Ashley Bruns 
found Gabi Wiegand 12 seconds into the sec-ond half against the Retrievers. One minute after UMBC’s Alicia Krause picked up her second yellow card of the game, Bruns had the ball behind the net and found junior at-tacker Caroline Chesterman unguarded on the right side of the crease for a goal.
UF also excelled against UMBC in situa-
tions where it was a man down.
In addition to holding the Retrievers 
scoreless on one of their man-up opportuni-ties, the Gators scored the first man-down goal of the season when junior attacker Kitty Cullen beat a triple team and scored an unas-sisted goal.
Cullen said the attack is only as effective 
as the defense allows it to be that when play-ing a man down. Whenever the defense can force a turnover, the offense will have a good chance to score.
“Our defenders are just unbelievable 
when we are a man down,” Cullen said. 
The Gators had six yellow cards in their 
14-5 win over Jacksonville last Wednesday, and while O’Leary said after the game that she was not pleased with the overly aggres-sive play, she said it gave them good in-game experience playing a man down.
“We are getting better at it,” O’Leary said. 
“The fact that we scored a man down was a testament to our attacking and being able to run by those defenders.”Gators making most of new man-up, man-down situations
“The fact that we scored a man 
down was a testament to our attack -
ing and being able to run by those 
defenders.”
Amanda O’Leary
UF coach20, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2012
Magliozzi lasts three innings in win
weekend, the reigning SEC Player of the Year said he 
felt he was pressing too much at the plate with teams pitching him outside of the strike zone.
“I know I’m going to get pitched there most of 
the year,” Zunino said. “I just got too antsy that first weekend and was able to sit back in my stance [Tues-day] and get a couple pitches I can drive.”
After working on his swing and shortening his 
stride during Florida’s off day Monday, Zunino set-tled in against the Wildcats (2-2). 
In the second inning, Zunino sent the first pitch 
he saw from Bethune-Cookman starter Scott Garner to the bleachers in left field to lead off the frame and start the scoring for the Gators.
Florida added three runs the following inning and 
another in the fourth, but the Gators’ middle relief gave up three runs of its own between the fifth and seventh innings to allow the Wildcats to take a 6-5 lead.
“There’s some things pitching-wise with the young 
pitchers we need to get a little better at,” Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “We need to pitch ahead a little bit and we need to put zeroes on the board the following inning when we score. … They’re young mistakes and they’ll get better as we move along.”While the middle relievers struggled to sustain a 
lead for the second game in a row, Zunino’s bat came to the rescue again to lead off the seventh when he hit what O’Sullivan called a “no-doubter” to right field to tie the game.
The opposite-field blast, combined with Tucker’s 
late-inning hit, helped UF overcome a night when the Gators stranded 10 runners on base and gave Florida some momentum heading into Wednesday night’s home game against No. 19 UCF. 
Freshman Johnny Magliozzi got the start for Flor -
ida, his first as a Gator. In 3.2 innings, Magliozzi al-lowed three earned runs on five hits, two walks and a hit batter. He also struck out three.
Austin Maddox picked up the win, throwing two 
innings of scoreless relief. 
“It doesn’t get any easier,” O’Sullivan said. “We 
still haven’t clicked yet, we’re still knocking some rust off, so to speak. I don’t think we’re quite sharp yet, but we’ll get there.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.BASEBALL , from page 17
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Florida catcher Mike Zunino hit two home runs in Tuesday’s 8-6 win.
“There’s some things pitching-wise with 
the young hitters we need to get a little 
better at.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coach