VOLUME 106 ISSUE 92 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
National Signing Day Coverage:
Florida’s ﬁ  rst full class under Will Muschamp was 
highlighted by the signings of three ﬁ  ve-star recruits, including D.J. Humphries. See graphic, pg. 18. 
Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability launches local food campaign
Program began Wednesday at Gator Dining, pg 3.  
Alachua County Fairgrounds to relocate in a few years
Fairgrounds will move two miles to the north, pg 5. 81/55‘Smash’ makes 
its way to NBC 
right after the 
Super Bowl. Page 
10 has all the info 
for musical fans.
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida hauled in 23 commitments in coach Will Muschamp’s ﬁ  rst full re-
cruiting class, including 14 players who play on the line of scrimmage. 
RECRUITING
  MATT WATTS
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 Will Muschamp kept his word — and im-
proved his ﬁ  rst full recruiting class Wednes-
day —  by getting one of the state’s top com-mits to do the opposite. 
  After losing to bitter rival Florida State 
on Nov. 26, Muschamp pledged to rebuild Florida through the recruiting process, starting ﬁ  rst with the lines of scrimmage. The Gators made a big splash in that regard on National Signing Day when ﬁ  ve-star St. Petersburg Lakewood defensive end Dante Fowler Jr. switched his commitment from the Seminoles, deciding instead to spend his college career in Gainesville. 
  Fowler is the eighth recruit in Florida’s 
2012 class who plays on the defensive line. In all, Muschamp nabbed 14 line-of-scrim-mage players to help bring UF’s class to the No. 3 national ranking, according to Rivals.com.
  “You recruit through this process and 
sometimes when you get there on signing day, you’re leaving it up to the young man and his family to make a decision,” Mus-champ said. “We’re excited to add another good pass rusher to our program.”
  In addition to Fowler, the Gators inked 
the No. 1 overall defensive end, ﬁ  ve-star Jonathan Bullard out of Shelby (N.C.) Crest High, and two four-star tackles in junior college transfer Damien Jacobs and Venice High’s Dante Phillips. UF also added three more defensive ends, including Fort Lau-derdale St. Thomas Aquinas’ Bryan Cox Jr. 
  “I certainly feel like we’ve addressed our 
most pressing need on both lines of scrim-mage,” Muschamp said. “I’m really excited  Muschamp pulls in top-three class
  EMILY MORROW
 Alligator Staff Writer
   Gainesville Police are looking for two men 
who were spotted publicly masturbating on separate occasions Sunday night.
  Two women were walking from their car in 
the parking lot of Stratford Court Apartments, 604 SW 10th St., when they saw a man sitting on an electrical box with no pants on. He was masturbating. 
  Police said the women ran upstairs to their 
apartment and saw the man’s shiny, light gray basketball shorts laying on the steps.
  By the time police arrived, both the man and 
his basketball shorts were gone. An Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce K-9 search of the area was unsuccessful, according to the police re-port.
  The women told police the suspect was a 
thin, light-skinned man with short, dark hair. He was wearing a gray-striped shirt.
  They also told police they had seen the man 
two other times hanging around the apartment complex. 
  About an hour later, police responded to an-
other call from the Walgreens on Archer Road where a man was masturbating in his car.
  This man also left before police arrived on 
the scene, said GPD Lt. Jorge Campos.
  Campos said the two men had similar de-
scriptions, but police do not believe they were the same person.  Two public 
masturbators seen Sunday
  SAMANTHA SHAVELL and SHELBY WEBB
 Alligator Writers
  Drug company Pﬁ  zer Inc. recalled two types of birth 
control Wednesday that could be less effective because of 
a packaging error. 
  The company recalled certain batches of Lo/Ovral-28 
and batches of Norgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol based on the lot number. 
The packets might have tablets out of order or have in-
correct numbers of active and inactive tablets, according to a Pﬁ  zer news release. 
Users can look up their prescription’s lot number on the pill pack and the company website.
  GatorWell sexual health specialist Samantha Evans 
said women on the affected medications should use a con-dom or abstain from sex until they get a correct dose of hormonal birth control.
  When 19-year-old political-science junior Sally Cohen heard about the recall, she immediately jumped up to re-search if the pills were causing health risks. 
She relaxed when she learned they aren’t.  She said she wasn’t sure which pill she was on, but she 
knew it was a generic pill, like the second of the recalled contraceptives.
  Twenty-year-old telecommunication sophomore Anna 
Fuhrer was taken aback and didn’t know which pill she was on. She looked it up and realized hers is not made by Pﬁ  zer.
  “I have to be more aware of what kind I’m on and how 
accredited the business is that is giving out my birth con-
trol,” she said. 
Eight other types of birth control pills were recalled in 
September after packaging errors.
These pills were not manufactured by Pﬁ  zer. Pﬁ  zer recalls two types of birth control for packaging errorSEE RECRUITING, PAGE 19
Tablets may not be in correct sequence
“I have to be more aware of what kind I’m on 
and how accredited the business is that is giving 
out my birth control.”
Anna Fuhrer
UF sophomoreNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 92 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tom Green, Phil Kegler, Greg Luca,   
  Corey McCall, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Calli Breil, Chloe Finch, 
  Karly Kehres, Sarah Kinonen, 
  Wade Millward, Elesa Paschke, 
  Raven Pritchett, David Williams, 
  Nika Zecevic
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager
 Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/55CLOUDY
77/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/54THUNDER
STORMS
79/54THUNDER
STORMS
78/54MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Return of Alpha Zeta Rose Sale
Today through Feb. 14
Want to surprise a loved one or a dear friend with some roses this Valentine’s Day? The Alpha Zeta Rose Sale returns this year to make it possible. Contact Gernide Zamor at gzamor08@ufl.edu for an order form. Once submitted, members of Alpha Zeta will deliver the order any-where on campus (faculty and staff only). Orders range from bouquets to single roses.
Islam Fair
TodayReitz Union Lawn and ColonnadeJoin Islam on Campus for its an-nual Islam Fair as part of Islam Awareness Month. Come learn about Muslims from various re-gions of the world, eat Middle- Eastern food and learn about upcoming Islam Awareness Month events. There will also be henna, trivia, calligraphy , tie-dye hijab booths and more. The event is free. For more in-formation, visit islamoncam-
pus.com
Reitz Union Entertainment Board 
presents “Groundhog Day”Today, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.
Reitz Union Auditorium
RUB presents “Groundhog Day” starring Bill Murray as a weatherman living the same day over and over again. The movie is free and open to the public.
Free salsa classes with the Gator 
Salsa ClubToday, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.Reitz Union ColonnadeCome and join the Gator Salsa Club to learn some salsa moves for free. The lessons will be held on the Reitz Colonnade every Tuesday and Thursday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. The club will teach  Dance on 2 from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. followed by Casino style from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. No experi-ence or partner is required. All levels of dancers are welcome. 
Gators for Haven Hospice First 
General Body MeetingToday, 6:30 p.m.Reitz Union, Rooms 346-347At this meeting, the club will talk about the application pro-tations and guest speakers.  
For more information, visit 
multicultural.ufl.edu/bslc. 
Joshua Bell
Saturday, 7:30 p.m.
Phillips CenterHailed as the most celebrat-ed American violinist of the modern era, Joshua Bell part-ners with British pianist Sam Haywood in a critically ac-claimed 21-city tour. This magnificent collaboration will include works by Brahms, Schubert and Grieg. Student tickets are $20. Visit perform-ingarts.ufl.edu for more infor -
mation. 
Dance Marathon hosts 5K, FT5K
Sunday, 8 a.m.UF Commuter LotDance Marathon at UF is host-ing its annual 5K, the “FT5K.” Early online registration is $20, and same-day registration is $25. A 1-mile fun run is an op-tion for $10 for those who like shorter distances. All proceeds benefit Shands Hospital for Children, our local Children’s Miracle Network Hospital. To learn more and register, visit www.floridadm.org/5k.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly for -
matted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.cess to volunteer at Haven Hospice, talk to a Princeton Review Rep about available courses, discuss service and social events, and have rep-resentatives from other orga-nizations talk about medical mission trips they offer in the future and how you can get involved. If you have any questions, email gators4hh@gmail.com or visit gators4hh.
com.
UF Libertarians screen “Waiting 
for ‘Superman’”
Today, 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m.Matherly, Room 118For National School Choice Week, the UF Libertarians will be screening “Waiting for ‘Superman,’” a Sundance award-winning documentary that analyzes the failures of the public education system in America. Those interested in education, public choice, political economy , public policy and liberty are wel-come to attend. Refreshments will be provided. 
Soweto Gospel Choir
Friday, 7:30 p.m.Phillips Center for Performing ArtsGrammy Award-winning Soweto Gospel Choir pays homage to tribal, tradi-tional and popular African and Western music while uplifting souls with earthy rhythms, dynamic harmo-nies and a cappella vocals. Student tickets are $12. Visit performingarts.ufl.edu for more information. 
James E. Scott Black Student 
Leadership ConferenceSaturday, 8:30 a.m.Ustler Hall IBC’s annually hosted con-ference provides students with skills that can help them become more effec-tive leaders through work-shops, discussions, presen-
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
KATHRYN VARN
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students and Gainesville resi-
dents gathered at the Gator Corner Din-
ing Center on  Wednesday morning for a breakfast featuring crepes with local organic citrus, tempeh scramble with cage-free eggs and organic oatmeal with local fixings.
The Farm-to-Table Breakfast served 
as a kickoff to the UF Office of Sustain-ability’s   Food For Thought campaign, which runs Feb. 1 to April 26. 
The campaign will educate people 
on food and sustainability issues, said Ashley Pennington, the Office of Sus-tainability’s outreach coordinator. She said the campaign’s main goal is to connect people with local resources. 
At the breakfast, each cooking sta-
tion featured a description of the food and its origin, and attendees received guides to sustainability printed on re-cycled paper with soy-based inks.
The entire campaign will cost UF 
about $5,000, according to Anna Priz-zia, director of the Office of Sustain-ability. 
She said local food is food that 
comes from within 250 miles.
“Since it is an awareness campaign, 
I think we will be gauging [success] based on who is coming out and how many people are showing up to the events,” Prizzia said. The campaign will include surveys to learn people’s reactions to events.
Other events will include speakers, 
a do-it-yourself series of canning and preserving food and a film screening as a part of the Cinema Verde Envi-ronmental Film and Arts Festival. The full calendar of events can be found on the Food For Thought website, sustain-able.ufl.edu/food. UF kicks off local food 
campaign at Gator CornerCity eleCtions
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
Student voter turnout on campus remained 
low in Tuesday’s elections. 
Out of the 4,173 voters registered at the Re-
itz Union, 119 voted.
Low student turnout is not unusual for 
city elections. 
In the March City Commission race, 57 
people voted at the Reitz Union precinct — 
4,471 people were registered to vote. In the mayoral race in March 2010, 85 people voted at the Reitz Union out of 4,465 registered vot-ers.
Supervisor of Elections Pam Carpenter 
said the Reitz Union is the main precinct for students who live on-campus. Off-campus students vote at precincts across the city.
“I always wonder why the younger pop-
ulation doesn’t turn out to vote,” Carpenter said. “This election is bipartisan, so it allows everyone to get involved and be heard.”
Jeremy O’Neal, a 24-year-old environmen-
tal engineering master’s student, said he was too busy with schoolwork to research the can-didates before election day. 
Tyler Payne said he didn’t vote in the city 
elections because city elections in his home-town are more important. 
“I just feel more connected to my city gov-
ernment at home,” said Payne, a 21-year-old business management and religion senior.
After he voted Tuesday, 19-year-old Frank 
Plageman spent the afternoon encouraging students to vote at the Reitz Union. 
Plageman, who is from Jupiter, said he 
thinks the biggest reason students do not vote in city elections is because of their apathy to-ward City Commission.
“What students don’t realize is that if they 
spoke up, the City Commission would listen to them,” the political science sophomore said. “Then, the commission would be less likely to create an ordinance that students don’t like.”
Carpenter said she urges students to vote 
in the runoff election on Feb. 28. 
“You have another opportunity to have 
your voice heard,” she said. “Students really should participate.”Few students on campus 
turn out to polls Tuesday4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Tj Villamil, Sabine Justilien and Juan Rodriguez pose for another photographer at the Reitz Union Amphi-
theater on Wednesday afternoon. The three announced that they will be running together on the ballot for the Unite Party elections.
Student government
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
The Unite Party announced its 
first all-minority executive candi-
dates between classes Wednesday afternoon. 
The party announced Sabine 
Justilien as its vice presidential candidate and Juan Rodriguez as its candidate for treasurer to about 30 people in the Reitz Union Am-phitheater.
Justilien currently serves in the 
vice president’s cabinet and Rodri-guez is the current Student Body vice president. 
Last week, Tj Villamil an-
nounced his candidacy to run with the Unite Party for Student Body president. 
On Wednesday, he introduced 
his running mates. He said their goal will be to enhance the student experience in every possible way.  
He also said if they are elected, 
this would be the first time in UF history three minorities will serve as student leaders. 
Justilien, the division chair for 
campus life, said she was pleased that UF bore witness to an all-minority ticket on the first day of Black History Month. 
Before her role in cabinet, Justil-
ien was the assistant director of Multicultural Affairs, she said after the announcement. 
Rodriguez said if he is elected, 
he would ensure the $5 million budget allocated to Student Gov-ernment would be used properly. 
Rodriguez, a former member 
of the Student Senate budget com-mittee, stepped in as vice president when Anthony Reynolds left the position to replace Ben Meyers as president. 
Before he was vice president, 
Rodriguez was working on writing guidelines to the finance codes, Vil-lamil said after the announcement. 
“I am excited to bring him back 
to where his expertise lies,” Vil-lamil said. Unite Party announces executive candidates for spring election
� COMMISSIONERS CAN 
PURCHASE OR GIVE UP IPADS AFTER TERM.
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Writer
City Commissioner Jean-
na Mastrodicasa received 
an iPad from the city a little more than a year ago and is still giddy about it.
“I very much like it,” Mas-
trodicasa said, laughing. “It saves money for the city, and I think it also helps us in our meetings.”
However, with elections 
for the City Commission on Tuesday, two current city commissioners will be out of office this year. This means their city-paid-for iPads will have to be returned to the city or purchased for a discounted price.   
The city bought the iPads 
for the seven city commis-sioners, the city manager and the city attorney.  
If turned back into the 
city, the iPad’s memory will be erased, and the device will be given to an incoming com-missioner. If a commissioner chooses to purchase it, it will cost him or her about $200, which will go into a fund for buying new iPads.
Becky Rountree, the city’s 
director of administrative services, said the devices were bought with the savings the city obtained by going pa-perless. 
The city paid $499 for each 
iPad a little more than a year ago, which Rountree said was much less than it would cost to print all the documents that go through City Hall.
She said it cost $785 a year 
to print the agendas for each commission meeting. The city saved about $5,500 a year in paper and ink by switching to the devices.
Rountree said the savings 
are substantial when you fac-tor in the time it took city em-ployees to organize, file and bind the agendas.
Given her options, Mast-
rodicasa said she would most likely purchase her iPad from the city at the end of her term in a few months.
“I actually don’t use it 
much for personal use now,” Mastrodicasa said. “But I have two small children, and everyone tells me they’ll love to play with it.”Two city-bought  
iPads in limbo     after city elections KALEIGH STEINORTH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dewey Bozella, falsely imprisoned for 26 years and 
the 2011 recipient of the Arthur Ashe Award for Cour -
age, will tell his story to Gainesville tonight.
Bozella served 26 years in Sing Sing prison for a mur -
der he did not commit. He was exonerated in 2009. 
He will speak in the Rion Ballroom of the Reitz 
Union. Doors open at 7 p.m., and the event starts at 8 
p.m. 
He will be paid $12,500.No ticket is necessary , and the event is free and open 
to the public. Seating is on a first-come, first-served ba-sis. A Q&A session will follow the event.
Bozella was given four opportunities for early re-
lease if he admitted guilt, but he refused to admit to a crime he did not commit, according to greatertalentnet-work.com. 
Bozella used boxing to motivate him throughout his 
time in prison, and he eventually earned the title of light heavyweight champion of Sing Sing. Upon his release, 
Bozella fought his first and only pro-fessional match, beating opponent Larry Hopkins at the Staples Center by an unanimous decision. 
Corey Portnoy, chairman of Ac-
cent Speakers’ Bureau, said he expects Bozella’s story of courage to resonate 
with all members of the audience.
“Dewey Bozella stands for cour -
age, and that’s something that all 
students at the University of Florida should aspire to have,” Portnoy said. “I feel that his words of advice will help those who might be faced with an issue that chal-lenges their integrity.” Exonerated boxer to speak at Reitz
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Contributing Writer   
The first time someone stole 
Lina Ramirez’s bike, she was in 
Walgreens getting a snack. She was only going to be a second, she thought, so she didn’t lock it.
About a month later, the 21-year-
old mathematics and economics ju-nior parked her new bike at home, but she struggled with a flimsy lock.  She thought it was locked, but apparently it wasn’t. Someone stole that one, too.
“It sucks,” Ramirez said. “The 
first time, I was really really upset, and the second time I was like, ‘Oh God, not again.’”
Ramirez never recovered the 
bikes. She didn’t report them stolen, and neither was registered with the University Police Department.UPD registered 1,493 bikes in 
2011. There were 112 bicycles re-ported stolen in 2010, and 152 bikes were reported stolen in 2011. UPD bike officer John Savona said a lot of bikes are stolen each year, but many people, like Ramirez, don’t file a report.
Savona said UPD offers free 
registration and bike-engraving for students, faculty and staff.
Bikes can be registered with any 
police officer on campus or with the front desk of UPD’s office on Mu-seum Road.
The numbered decals give own-
ers a much better chance of recover -
ing missing or stolen bikes. Savona said the decals provide proof of ownership, which is critical when trying to identify a recovered bike.
“As soon as we register a bike, 
it gets entered in our data system,” Savona said. “If I stop someone and I see they have a decal, I can match it up to the owner.”
Savona registers some students’ 
bikes in lieu of writing them a ci-tation, he said, in order to deter thieves.
“One time, I arrested a bike thief, 
and I asked him why he didn’t take this one bike,” Savona said, “and he said he didn’t want to take it be-cause it had a UPD decal.”
If someone lost a bike or fears 
it was stolen, but didn’t register it, Savona said there is little more that a person can do aside from filing a report with UPD. Even after that, the chances of getting the bike re-turned are slim.
Ramirez now rides her friend’s 
old bike, which she fixed herself. She said despite her bad luck with bikes, she won’t register this one any time soon.
“I hate this bike,” Ramirez said. 
“If I got a new bike that I actually cared about, I would.”
Bike thieves deterred by UPD decalsBozella
“I am excited to bring him 
back to where his expertise 
lies.”
Tj Villamil
Student Body president candidate
152 bikes stolen last yearBENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Writer
The Hoggetowne Medieval 
Faire will be moving, but not for 
a few years.
The Alachua County Fair -
grounds will be relocated two miles north of the Gainesville Regional Airport between North 63rd Avenue and North 69th Avenue. The current site will be replaced with a retail shopping area.
The move will affect the logis-
tics of the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire in the future. However, a previous pitch to move the fair -
grounds to Newberry could have jeopardized the future of the fair, which is attended by thousands of people each year.
The city of Newberry put in a 
fall proposal to relocate the coun-ty fairgrounds to a complex in its city instead of the Gainesville lo-cation on Waldo Road.
Gainesville Mayor Craig Lowe 
said in an interview in the fall that he would not allow a city-funded fair to take place in Newberry. Lowe’s main argument was that it would give the perception Gainesville isn’t interested in de-veloping the east side of town.Plan East Gainesville is a 
project to bring jobs and eco-nomic growth potential into East Gainesville.
Rick Drummond, interim 
county manager, said moving the fairgrounds is an integral part of Plan East Gainesville.
Newberry’s pitch has since 
been dropped, he said.
The Waldo Road land was 
purchased by Alachua County for $2 million in 2006. It will take about $22 million to get the loca-tion prepped to be a fully work-ing fairground.
One of the reasons that the 
move is taking so long is the bud-get for the fairground project was cut.
The budget, which was origi-
nally $21 million to $28 million, has been decreased to between $12 million and $14 million, Drummond said.
“The economic realities have 
changed since we first wanted to 
pull the trigger on this project,” Drummond said.
Linda Piper, events coordina-
tor with the City of Gainesville 
Division of Cultural Affairs, said one of the main advantages of the 
move is an increase in parking.
The current fairgrounds can 
hold 1,000 cars, and the new fair -
grounds will be able to park 5,000 cars, she said.
She said the move will be ben-
eficial to eastern Gainesville.
“I am glad it will impact the 
east side of Gainesville economi-cally,” Piper said. “And it will bring jobs.” THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gypsies dance at the Hoggetowne Medieval Fair on Saturday.  The Alachua County Fairgrounds will be 
moving to a site two miles north of the Gainesville Regional Airport in a few years for a total cost of $24 million.
Alachua County Fairgrounds to relocate in a few years
The fairgrounds will be moved two miles north
“I am glad it will impact 
the east side of Gainesville 
economically, and it will 
bring jobs.”
Linda Piper
events coordinator with the City of 
Gainesville Division of Cultural AffairsReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Has your birth control been recalled?
952 TOTAL VOTES83% YES
17% NOWednesday’s question: Would you mas-
turbate in public?No-Sense Scott
Governor’s position on 
tuition hikes confusing
On Tuesday, Gov. Rick Scott, in a somewhat surprising statement, said he did not support increasing tuition for students at Florida’s colleges and universities. 
This position puts the governor at odds with members of 
his own party in the legislature who are proposing an 8 percent increase in tuition.
Sen. Evelyn Lynn, R-Ormond Beach, chair of the budget 
subcommittee on higher education, told the Orlando Sentinel, “I have great concern because we’re cutting back on dollars, and education has been cutting back every single year for the last four years now, and to come one more year when we have to reduce money and say ‘no tuition increases’ is very diffi-cult.” 
It appears that Lynn reflects the traditional Republican view 
that keeping tuition flat will likely place the burden of educa-tion costs on Florida taxpayers. She also believes that because Florida has one of the lowest tuition rates in the country, it has room to increase tuition to ease cuts elsewhere. 
The governor said he believes increasing tuition would be 
the wrong thing to do, equating colleges to businesses that try to cut costs first before increasing prices. The problem is when the state has to balance the budget every year and has already cut a lot from higher education in Florida, something will have to give, putting taxpayers on the line. 
This is not to say that we are supporting tuition hikes, be-
cause that is certainly not the case. The increasing cost of tu-ition each year is certainly a problem and could be remedied in other ways. We also realize, as we have argued in past editori-als, that tuition increases are sometimes a necessary evil used to make up for the rising cost of education.  
Perhaps we should look at the underlying reasons for annu-
al increases in the cost of higher education before we continue to cut or increase tuition. Are standards for admission too low? Are federal subsidies driving up costs? 
Regardless, what is most surprising from this budget battle 
is that the governor is pretty much siding with his arch nem-esis, President Obama, on this issue. In his State of the Union address, the president came out strongly against further tuition increases, and Scott has echoed some of the same reasons, such as the idea that education should be affordable to everyone. 
Could the governor be going against his party on the issue 
in order to soften his hardline image? If that is the case, we doubt it will make his opponents, many college students in-cluded, like him.
If anything, it will make him look like he’s pandering to 
younger people for support rather than truly standing up for them against further tuition increases. 
Whether or not he genuinely believes what he says, his po-
sition on this issue is probably not going to change the minds of many Floridians.Lessons outside classroom matter most
We’re told we attend UF to “get an education.” We go to class, write our papers, take our tests and, after four years, we earn a degree.  Well, I’ve re-
cently come to the conclusion that the building blocks of success have little to do with your GPA. Rather, most of my “education” comes from outside the classroom.
Entering college — with all my striving and crisply 
honed training — I still felt I didn’t understand the qualities that led to some of the highest achievements in life: lasting happiness, success, meaning, purpose. It took me a while to realize it, but intelligence, academic performance and pres-tigious schools do not correlate well with gratification.
From an early age, my upbringing and high school edu-
cation trained me in every obscure calculus problem, ma-jor world war and biological process. Through my formal education, my teachers co-authored the person I became, crafting me to face academic challenges. But when it came to some of the most important lessons — how to navigate the contours of conversation and how to gracefully exit one, whom to befriend and whom to dismiss — I felt utterly on my own.
The traits that make a difference are certainly not taught 
in a classroom: the ability to understand and empathize with people; to analyze situations and distinguish underly-ing patterns; to create meaningful relationships; to identify and correct personal inadequacies; to challenge or adhere to the status quo; even to construct delicate emails.
I’ve learned these things not under the stark fluorescent 
lights of the classroom, but rather in the social context of meeting new people, extracurricular gatherings, managing crises, participating in lunch and dinner dates, and just the everyday business of living on my own in the heightened reality that is college.
Let’s take, for an example, the fertile social grounds of 
a birthday dinner. It is in these types of situations where the real life lessons are learned. There are the obvious con-scious lessons, such as the ability to carry a conversation and listen. But deep down, in the rich subconscious where wisdom grows and character is formed, something more is happening. 
In these situations, we react 
to the social patterns that prevail with each unique person at the table. We can tell which clique prefers talking about shopping, and which prefers talking about 
drinking. We see the prevailing currents of the social ocean — which members of the table are regretting their seating choice and which members of the table are amiably com-placent. 
We are all performing a series of delicate social tasks. For 
the span of the dinner, the members of the table are dem-onstrating wit, complacency, compassion, tact and timing. More so, the members are learning how to interpret one an-other, to gauge temperament and react accordingly, to be empathic and engaging. In short, they were learning and practicing the skills necessary to succeed in life.
So, when we get back in the classroom, it’s almost as if 
we’re getting a placebo education. The idea being that our prestigious university doesn’t actually work by teaching us things. It works by giving us the impression that we’ve been engrained with knowledge, which gives us the insane sense of unwarranted self-confidence which then makes us monetarily successful later in life. 
So, let’s be real here. We’re not going to remember a se-
ries of facts about public policy or engineering or whatever your major may be. We’re going to forget the vast major -
ity of everything we’re tested on in college. What we’re not going to forget, though, are the lessons learned outside the classroom — lessons about interpretation and interaction, life and living, and people and personality.
Garrett Bruno is a political science sophomore at UF. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Garrett Bruno
opinions@alligator.org THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Voters take their issues pret-
ty seriously. There are fam-ily values, the economy, the 
Constitution, taxes and personal freedom, just to name a few. This is largely why the Republican Party has surged in the past few years and why 2012 was supposed to shake things up even more.
Despite all the force behind the 
GOP , it somehow chose incred-ibly unimpressive candidates. The party once known for the Reagan Revolution just doesn’t have much going for it. Sure, there’s the tea party, but we’re still paying for a decade and a half of bad deci-sions.
Let’s be honest, being a Repub-
lican this year is like being single in your 30s: You’ve had better, but you’re just going to have to settle. Since Ole Miss is not only extreme-ly conservative but also has tons of people who pretty much just want to get married, allow me to continue the analogy with the Re-publican options.
First, the irrelevant candidates. 
There’s Gary Johnson, the former governor of New Mexico. The GOP invited him to a few debates but eventually your parents — the media — stopped allowing you to hang out with Johnson, probably because he’s pro-marijuana. May-be Johnson could have worked, but because the GOP started ignor-ing him, he’s joined the Libertarian Party.
Then there’s Buddy Roemer, 
the person whose face you’ve seen but literally had no idea what his name was. The former congress-man from Louisiana won’t accept donations greater than $100, so he’s pretty much asking to be for-gotten.
Speak-
ing of mon-ey, there’s Mitt Rom-
ney, the loaded, charming person everyone says you should like. Romney’s the Jay Gatsby of poli-tics without all the alcohol-laden parties. That’s also his downfall: Despite how popular he is, he’s so secretive it’s creepy.
He’s been married to his high 
school sweetheart for 40 years, which looks good compared to Newt Gingrich. But in all honesty, Romney has had an open marriage with conservatism for decades. When you look at his stances on abortion, TARP , the Second Amendment and health care man-dates, you see why his nickname is Obamney.
Of course, there’s Rick Santo-
rum, whose continued presence no one can figure out. It’s probably because he’s the nice person who goes to church every week who Grandma loves but seems to have a lot of personal issues. He acts like a decent person, but it’s hard to take someone seriously when they talk like there’s a question mark at the end of every other sentence.
Gingrich is the crazy ex of the 
Republican Party that it just can’t get rid of. He’s a genius and would probably accomplish a lot. He was even speaker of the House — in 1994. This guy should be playing golf in Myrtle Beach, not cam-paigning for president there. True conservatives seem to trust him a lot more when he’s not in politics, anyway.
Finally, there’s Ron Paul, who’s 
like the person without a Facebook because of how much the media ignores the guy. He’s been around forever, but his consistency is why he’s especially relevant. It’s his third time trying to be president, and he’s still the only person who takes his vow to uphold the Con-stitution seriously.
He’s the only candidate who 
treats us like adults, has never compromised his values and speaks to us with common sense. He’s difficult because he’s always right. Americans continue to bash Gingrich because, naturally, peo-ple hate to admit when they’re wrong. Perhaps Paul’s wisdom explains why he has more support from members of the military than all the other candidates combined, making the people who say his for-eign policy isn’t aggressive enough just look foolish.
Gingrich is the most conserva-
tive candidate, but everyone says Republicans should write him off because he’s not photogenic, a smooth talker, filthy rich and because his suits look like they came from the clearance rack at J.C. Penney. Paul’s no Reagan, but Americans are essentially choos-ing of their own free will to be like the mom in that movie “The Note-book,” which I swear I’ve never seen.
This election is basically an ar-
ranged marriage in which we’re pretty depressed about our ulti-mate option of Romney vs. Obama; it’s not the most romantic story ever, but that’s politics. At least 2012 is a wake-up call. Huntsman 2016, anybody?
Alec Jones is a columnist for the 
Daily Mississippian at the University of Mississippi. 
GOP candidates a string of suitorsUWire
Alec Jones
UWire
College is the time to be curious. We need to take advan-
tage of our time and embark on an adventure before we lose that chance. Traveling and studying abroad, 
completely immersing yourself in another culture, can im-pact your life significantly. And if we plan to make a differ -
ence in the world as young adults, we need that international experience now more than ever.
Any period of time overseas is worthwhile, and the more 
time the better, because the only way one can really learn about another culture is to live in it. Last semester, I studied abroad in Italy, and I can honestly say that I did not have enough time there. Especially when learning a language, four months is barely enough time to mentally unpack. Time flew by, as it always does, but I learned more about myself over the course of those four months than I ever had before.
College is a time to embrace personal change and growth. 
Making the choice to travel independently can jump start this growing process. The ability to deal with change helps the 
traveler’s transition when leaving a place he or she has become deeply accustomed to. It was very difficult for me to leave Italy — my time there felt unfinished. But because I have 
become accustomed to change, I am able to understand the fact that I am still young and one day I can go back. My trip was just the beginning.
I wouldn’t have been able to adjust as well as I did if it 
weren’t for the people I met. I made life-long friendships with people from all over the world. There is only experience to be gained by a venture overseas; there’s really nothing to lose.
My time abroad did nothing but make me a more deter -
mined person. I feel rejuvenated to have lived in a different culture, and I think it’s kind of beautiful that I and other stu-dents have the freedom to travel and live out these dreams so early in life. Most of us don’t know exactly where we’ll end up, but for now we might as well just enjoy the ride while we’re on it.
Candice Wheeler is a columnist for the Minnesota Daily at the 
University of Minnesota. Studying abroad 
teaches adaptabilityUWire
Candice Wheeler
UWiretheAvenue    
Follow two minority 
students trying to make it in the performance arts on page 9.
“Smash” into show business! 
You can’t vote in NBC’s latest musical show, but it’s 
still a treat. Read all about “Smash” on page 10.Grab a slice at Blue Highway: 
There are quite a few eateries in Gainesville that everyone should know about. Discover your own Blue Highway on page 12. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
DANA BURKE
Avenue Writer
Saturdays in the Swamp haven’t 
been the same since football season 
came to a close. Despite being a col-lege town, shot-gunning beer at 10 in the morning for fun has neither the same effect nor is it as socially acceptable when there isn’t a foot-ball game to follow. 
Not to fear, football lovers — the 
Super Bowl is here! What does this have to do with fashion, you say? Well, whether you’re watching the Super Bowl with friends, cheering on the Gators from the bleachers in the O’Connell Center or frequent-ing Southwest Recreation Center to get your workout on, your clothes make a statement. Try these athlet-ic-influenced style tips to look stun-ning in any sporting situation and score big in your wardrobe.
Super Bowl Party
Regardless of your team prefer -
ence this year, blue, white and red will be the choice colors. Tackle your clothing options head-on and opt for something reflective of your personal style while still supporting your boys on the field.
Even if you are the team’s num-
ber-one super fan, there are other ways to show it than by painting your face, sporting a fuzzy wig in your team’s colors and wearing an ill-fitting jersey.  If you must display your team’s name proudly across your chest, pick a shirt that still has feminine flair.  
Touch by Alyssa Milano is a line 
of spirit apparel made for women that covers every sports team in the NFL, NHL, MLB and NBA.  Her “The Coop” football T-shirt (which is available in a version for both the Patriots and the Giants) is a girly alternative to a jersey, featuring a v-neck design with a color-blocked top and sporty stripes on the sleeves.
If you’re a girly girl, there’s no 
reason why you can’t wear a dress or skirt on this extra-masculine day. Use the colors of your team in sweet silhouettes and you’ll have a touch of femininity that still says you’re interested in the game — touch-down! 
Gator Games 
College football may be over, 
but at least we have college basket-ball games to look forward to until March.  Stand out from the crowd in the O’Connell Center while cheering for the Gators by showing school spirit in trendy ways.On campus, it is not unusual to 
see orange and blue incorporated into everyday outfits, typically in generic T-shirts from various clubs, organizations and the campus bookstore.  Take your look from campus to the court by sprucing up your style from jeans and a T-shirt to something more spirited. 
Instead of an average pair of 
jeans, try a pant, short or a skirt in a solid blue or a bright orange.  If you think wearing solid orange bottoms is weird, think again.  Tangerine was the hottest color trend on the runways this spring. 
Paired with a simple white T-
shirt, the look will remain ener -
getic yet effortless. It’s easy to go overboard when you want to show your team spirit, but by using team colors sparingly in unusual ways, you’ll turn heads in a good way. 
If you must stay tried and true to 
your favorite Florida tee, switch it up by tucking it into a skirt, or pair -
ing it with a blazer.  These simple changes will give new life to your shirt no matter how many Gator wins it has seen.  
Gym Sessions
New Year’s resolutioners: Need 
extra motivation besides a Spring Break beach body? Buy your -
self some cute workout wear and kick-start your ex-ercise routine into 
high gear.
To avoid looking sloppy on cam-
pus, try actual activewear instead of old T-shirts and shorts.  You never know who you might run into at the gym or in class, and you won’t make a great first impression in a sweat-stained T-shirt. These work-out clothes are built for activity in dry fabrics that will keep you from looking like a slob. 
For all of you girls guilty of con-
fusing gym clothes with streetwear (yes, I’m talking to all the girls who live in their Nike running shorts but never actually go to the gym), please reassess your wardrobe.  If you are not going to or coming from the gym, leave the activewear at home.
For the girl who has everything, 
go the extra mile in your workout wear by shopping designer duds.  Adidas by Stella McCartney fea-tures an ultra-chic snakeskin prints.  Pack a punch in your clothing choices and sweat in style.Fifth Avenue Fashion: Sporty Style for the Gator Girl
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Going for a jog? Getting into the game? Sweat in style with these cute looks!
RAKSHEEN AYAZ
Avenue Writer
One  of every three people in the 
United States is a minority , yet TV 
networks cast predominantly white individuals in their shows. Over the past two decades, African-Amer -
icans and Hispanics have taken on many more roles on television. Arab- and Asian-Americans are also taking on stronger roles, though at a lesser rate. 
The enrollment of minority stu-
dents at UF’s School of Theatre and Dance program has increased by about 20 to 30 percent in 10 years. 
Timothy Altmeyer, an assistant 
professor of the UF School of The-atre and Dance, predicted that the number of minorities in the fields of acting, modeling, singing and danc-ing will likely increase. 
“My observation is that it is be-
coming easier, for nontraditional casting has become much more prominent,” Altmeyer said. “In the past five years, some of our stron-gest breakouts, the highest persons, have been African or Latino.” 
Chinese-American Felix Chai, 
20, a junior family youth and com-munity sciences major, aspires to be a dancer and later a choreographer, who travels and teaches workshops. He competed in the World of Dance competition in Chicago last year with the UF Apocalypse Dance Troupe, an all-male, hip-hop dance troupe. 
For Chai, dancing is a hobby he 
wishes could turn into a career. He practices for about 11 hours a week and even more when nearing a com-petition.
“A lot of the successful dance 
troupes in America’s Best Dance Crew are Asian,” he said.
The older Asian community still 
focuses on studying and getting professional jobs, Chai said. “I have a strict mom who doesn’t really ac-cept the fact that I dance,” Chai said. “I’ve never actually told my mom that I truly want to be a choreogra-pher or dancer.” 
“If I ever had the opportunity to 
drop school, I would do it,” Chai said. “You can always go back to school.” 
Indian-American junior adver -
tising major Monica Desai, 20, is an actress and model. She graduated from the Lisa Maile School of Act-ing, Modeling and Imaging while she was in high school.
Her first job as an extra for the 
movie “Bring It On: In It to Win It” convinced her she should pursue a career in acting. Some of her accom-plishments include being in com-mercials for V erizon, Nutrisystem, Healthy Start and Valencia College.
“It’s funny because, although I am completely Indian, my look is actually considered ‘ethnically am-biguous’,” she said. 
Desai’s family is supportive of 
her acting and modeling career, though her mother always pushes for her to focus on her studies.“There are also traditional Indian 
people who believe that my interest in developing a career based on cre-ativity is not realistic,” Desai said. 
Desai always puts classes first. 
She has driven to Tampa for an au-dition and been back in Gainesville in time for class. However, she real-izes that a successful acting career is not guaranteed.
“I constantly remind myself that 
I can do what they do, and better yet, I can do it with a twist of my culture.”
UF’s minority students also hope to break into showbiz  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Photo by Alligator Staff
Look for Desai and Chai’s names in lights some day soon. For now, give them your support!
RACHEL GODFREY 
Avenue Writer
Psychedelic electronic beats and ethereal 
harmonies come together in an inexplicably 
fitting combination in The Big Sleep’s “Nature Experiments.” A three-year hiatus was appar -
ently the perfect recipe for the Brooklyn-based trio to marinate ideas and churn out a solid, full-length LP .
The Big Sleep incorporates a revival of 
shoegazing, a subgenre of alternative rock, which fuses separate guitar melodies and vo-cals into a rough and imprecise sound.  
Sonya Balchandani and Danny Barria are 
the driving spark behind The Big Sleep, with their vocals and guitar work leading the al-bum. They also happen to be married. The duo found its drummer, Gabe Rhodes, through a Craigslist ad.  
Inspired by classic bands like The Cure and 
Led Zeppelin, The Big Sleep has an eclectic sound. Sugary yet dynamic, they are remi-niscent of The xx or Yeah Yeah Yeahs with a 
much heavier edge. 
In the past, The Big Sleep simply followed 
where the music took it. Its tracks came off as 
more jam sessions than bona fide composi-tions. Lyrics were always an afterthought. 
The album begins with “#1,” an anthem-
like track dominated by an intense guitar backbeat. However, a gaping lack of lyrical variety shows The Big Sleep may be falling prey to its old faults. 
An eerie, almost carnival-like melody be-
gins “Valentine,” which soon morphs into an electronic drone.  Barria chimes in with near monotone, as Balchandani softly coos in the background. The simple track heats up as ev-ery element gains speed and vigor.
A trippy keyboard melody is the foun-
dation for “Wood on the 
Water.” A synthesizer adds a spacey touch to this warped and quirky track. It’s a refreshing break from the frenzied shredding The Big Sleep is so fond of. 
“Red Carpet” mesmer -
izes with ceaseless electronic repetition. The 
Big Sleep has nailed their progressive formula, settling into a composition pattern that high-lights its strengths.  “Four Wishes” is a formidable track, made 
up of intense guitar riffs and menacing percus-sion lines. The Big Sleep isn’t concerned with perfection here; the track is raw, gritty and wholly authentic. 
“Meet Your Maker” holds nothing back, 
immediately launching into an electrifying fury of bass and guitar. 
Nature Experiments has its bright spots, 
tracks that are memorable for their sheer uniqueness and passion. 
The Big Sleep has every element it needs to 
be an unstoppable force in alternative music, but it has to rein in its tendency to squander away that talent with unruly riffs and mud-dled sections.  
The Big Sleep has gained critical and popu-
lar acclaim alongside fellow indie artists Pas-sion Pit and Freelance Whales. 
“Nature Experiments” dropped on Jan. 31, 
the band’s first release since “Sleep Forever” in 2008.
Did a three-year hiatus help The Big Sleep’s new album?
‘Nature Experiments’ brings a trippy soundtheater 10, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
  MICHAEL NEWMAN
 Avenue Writer
 
  You may have missed it, but not too long 
ago Men’s Health magazine released the re-sults of a semi-scientiﬁ  c study that ranked America’s saddest cities based on statistics such as suicide rates, unemployment rates and the rates of households using antide-pressants. 
No. 1 on the list is St. Petersburg, with 
neighboring Tampa trailing behind at No. 4. Surely this is bad news for real estate agents and not news at all for people who have lived in the area for a major portion of their lives. 
  “That’s crazy , man,” said Rahim Samad, 
who has lived in Tampa for 20 years, about the survey . “But I believe it.” 
  The DJ, producer, emcee and indepen-
dent ﬁ  lm actor/producer has drawn heavily on the city’s distinctive brand of grime for his ﬁ  rst ﬁ  lm, “Travel Properly .”    
    Luckily, Tampa listeners have WMNF. It’s a community-run, free-form radio sta-tion with more than 100 volunteer program-mers.
  Brigid Ochshorn, host of the overnight 
program “Freedom of Choice,” has been curating a series of free outreach shows for the station at Cafe Hey in Tampa and Mojo Books and Music near USF. 
    Ochsorn also produces 
music as No Milk, a Coc-teau Twins-esque solo project driven by pro-grammed drum patterns. 
It features nagging 
synth and ephemeral vo-cals layered in delay and effects.   
But that’s not the only good news for elec-
tronic music fans, with Josh Plotkin keeping busy running his startup label MORE Re-cords out of Tampa.     
The records are available at morerecords.
org along with free streams of songs from the releases.  Tampa’s music environment 
becomes more diverse
  ALYSSA HOLCOMB
 Avenue Writer
 The separate worlds of the on- and off-
Broadway stages collide in the form of 
“Smash,” NBC’s new musical TV show that mixes elements of shows such as “Glee” and “The Voice.” 
  The show centers on Karen Cartwright 
(“American Idol” alumna Katharine McPhee), a struggling actress who endures one disappointment after another, deter-mined to ﬁ  nd the role ﬁ  t for her on the Great White Way . While Cartwright tries to ﬁ  nd her ﬁ  rst role, chorus girl Ivy Bell (Megan Hilty, an established Broadway performer) looks for her own time in the spotlight. Equipped with tremendous voices and curvy physiques, the duo ultimately be-come rivals who vie for the lead in an up-coming showstopper.
  The new show-stopping idea? “Marilyn: 
The Musical,” a ﬂ  ashy revue of the life of Marilyn Monroe. The latest brainchild of playwrights Julia Houston (Debra Messing of “Will and Grace”) and Tom Levitt (Chris-tian Borle).
  Add legendary producer Eileen Rand 
(Academy Award-winner Anjelica Huston) and loved-yet-hated director Derek Wills (Jack Davenport) and the “Marilyn” train is in full steam. Filled with impromptu demo sessions and preliminary workshops, the in-novative idea collides into the lives of all in-volved, at times threatening to collapse the personal lives of both the actors and artists.
  With a line of executive producers in-
cluding Craig Zadan and Neil Meron (“Chi-cago,” “Hairspray”) and Steven Spielberg, “Smash” packs a powerful punch behind the scenes. Marc Shaiman and Scott Witt-man, the musical masterminds behind “Hairspray” and “Catch Me If You Can,” work double-duty as executive produc-ers and composers/lyricists for the show’s original songs.
  In the pilot, airing Feb. 6 at 10 p.m., the 
gradual growth of the Monroe ideal em-  NBC’s ‘Smash’ shows on- 
and off-stage sentimenttelevision
SEE SMASH, PAGE 11
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
KAY BEA 
Avenue Writer
My opinion is on the fence when it 
comes to dance clubs. On one hand, I can’t get enough of them. But on 
the other, hitting up the club often makes me wonder what I’m doing with my life.  These thoughts usually occur to me post-club as I scarf a huge, greasy slice at 2:30 a.m., drunk and kicking myself for sending “I miss you” text messages to exes.   
Having sailed on the clubbing-is-still-
exciting boat more than a decade ago, I have to admit that my outlook — or rather, my ex-pectations — for these scenarios has mutated quite a bit. The awareness is similar to the superficial turn-off you feel when your signifi-cant other farts in front of you for the first time.  You still love the person, the experience isn’t a deal breaker and in the back of your mind you always knew they weren’t perfect, but still, some of their glow has dimmed.
So, getting back to the club, I’d like to talk 
to you guys about some things that went down in XS not so long ago.  Holy hell, what is up with that place?  It is absolutely glorious, all jokes aside.  
As I made my way through the corridor to-
ward the mouth of the dance floor, my senses were immediately hit with a sensory overload that eliminates all guards of inhibition.  The music is loud, its pulsating rhythms so easy that one can’t help but notice an enhancement of one’s animal instincts.  
One thing that always gets me off — even 
though I pretend to vehemently deny it — is being approached by and talking to hot, new guys.  It gets the adrenaline running a little bit, and if conversation lasts for more than five minutes, I can’t help but start to wonder if the guy is a good kisser.  Of course, all it takes to choke these thoughts and build a wall is a one un-sexy comment.  “You know, you have 
a really great ass.  Want to dance?”  No, no I do not want to dance.  
The standard excuse to 
leave this now-awkward situation is the good ol’ la-dies room.  God bless the ladies room, seriously .  The 
line is always a mile long, with some people taking a million years to do their business.  Toilets stuffed with an overflow of paper and piss always make me wonder who the hell is in my company at the club.  Flushing ain’t that hard.  But even in this irritating congregation of women all wearing size XS, there still is a sense of camaraderie.  
We give each other toilet paper if our stall is 
out, compliment each other’s outfits and wish each other a good night.  It’s great.
Post-piss, I lasted in the club another hour 
or so, doing more of the same.  I left that eve-ning with girlfriends, happy but deflated.  This is what I mean about dance clubs: I really just don’t know what they’re all about.  I’m glad they exist, but can’t explain why .  
Had I left with a guy, would I have felt bet-
ter?  If so, does that reflect a lack in my self-esteem or an expectation of the dance club atmosphere?  
Funny, but as I sit here thinking about the 
questions I just posed, I can’t help but sense a desire to get made up and try it all over again.
The Art of Flying Solo, Topic 3: That Daily Bump and Grind
beds itself in the minds of both the creative and stage-set teams. Karen, in limbo between audition runs and waitressing shifts, thinks the blonde bombshell is her big chance to finally make it in show business. Ivy , tired of spending her nights upstage, begins a metamorphosis into the persona of the voluptuous vixen. Julia, struggling with balancing her work and family, becomes entranced by the idea. The male counterparts complement the leading ladies with 
a mix of unabashed bravado and nervous indecision. Derek is argumentative and stubborn, but what he lacks in compromise he makes up for in knowing talent when he sees it.
Both sides of the cast come together in the quintessential 
place for all show folk: the audition room. With the creative team seated behind a table and the hopeful performers ner -
vous and determined before them, the two worlds crash with the opening chords of “Let Me Be Your Star,” an original song set as the audition piece. Both Karen and Ivy, dressed in curve-hugging, classic Monroe sex-appeal shine in their own way. 
The pilot episode is far from perfect; there are points where 
the story seemed to drag or became too cliche (i.e. Derek in-viting Karen back to his apartment late at night to offer some “advice” before callbacks). 
Yet it is scenes like the audition scene that overcome the ob-
stacles, just like the real world of theater. 
With a solid foundation and an intriguing storyline, “Smash” 
is poised to become a new medium for lovers of both the stage and screen to enjoy.Katharine McPhee jumps from ‘American Idol’ to ‘Smash’
SMASH , from page 10
� GRAB GOOD GRUB FROM 
BLUE HIGHWAY, A PIZZERIA
KIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer
“On the old highway maps of 
America, the main routes were red 
and the back roads blue. Now even the colors are changing.” - William Least Heat-Moon
Blue Highway Pizzeria has 
been serving pizza, sandwiches and other Italian classics since 2004 in Micanopy and since 2009 in Gainesville’s Tioga Town Cen-ter. Frank Ruffino, a 60-year-old Micanopy man, is the owner and founder. Sixty is the new 40, he as-sured. 
Ruffino has been cooking pro-
fessionally for 33 years. He is most-ly a self-taught cook; however, he has received some unofficial train-ing from the Culinary Institute of America. He first started cooking as a kid in Chicago, where he was born and raised. One of his first childhood memories is watching his grandmother make ravioli. His Italian heritage influenced his cur -
rent cooking style. 
“Everyone has good food mem-
ories,” Ruffino said. “The one nice thing about this business is its im-mediate gratification. I can give someone a good plate of food and see the smile come on their face. You can see it in their eyes.”
Before Ruffino and his wife set-
tled in Florida, every five to seven years his family moved to a differ-ent city for better jobs. 
“This was an opportunity for us 
to put down roots,” he said. “We had roots here when we lived here. We wanted to be part of the com-munity.”
The Blue Highway in Micanopy 
just kind of happened, he said. It used to be an “old redneck bar” called the Wits Inn. When he first bought the property, he ran it as a bar for about five months until he got all the permits to officially open as a pizzeria. 
Ruffino originally was going 
to name the restaurant Pizzettas, which means “small pizzas.” His father did not feel it went well with the location, so he chose another name.
Blue Highway came from Wil-
liam Least Heat-Moon’s book “Blue Highways: A Journey into America.” In the book, Heat-Moon traveled throughout America on back roads, or blue highways. He wrote about mom-and-pop places and good restaurants where he stopped, as long as he stayed off the main roads, Ruffino said.
A few months after the pizzeria 
opened, a local historian informed him that the restaurant was actual-ly located on an old blue highway, U.S. 441. 
“Sometimes things are meant to 
be,” he said. 
He based the menu on things he 
liked to eat.
“I wanted something casual,” 
he said. “I wanted to do something everyone likes, and I wanted to do it better than most people get. People love pizza.” 
Ruffino’s son taught him how 
to make pizza because he had worked in pizzerias while he was growing up. The pizza served at Blue Highway was created by their joint effort.He said a good pizza starts with 
a good crust. 
“I’ve had people tell us, ‘God, 
I’ve never ate crust before, but I love your crust,’” he said. “There’s a lot of love and handwork going into our product here.”
Every pizza is made to order. 
On a weekly basis, the restaurant makes more than 1,000 pizzas. On a good week the number can hit 2,000, he said.
Regulars are the core customers 
at the pizzeria. Some people come four times a week, he said. Blue Highway does its best to 
buy local products. It also uses or-ganic products for the salads. 
The Micanopy location only 
sells pizza, sandwiches, salads and desserts, but Tioga has an expand-ed menu that also serves pasta. 
He has two items named after 
his parents: The “Gino,” which has Genoa salami, capicolla, pro-volone cheese, lettuce, tomato, ba-nana peppers and oil and vinegar on a roll, is named for his father, and “Mama Josephine Spaghetti and Meatballs” is named after his mother. 
“My mother used to make great 
meatballs,” he said. 
Ruffino has created a family 
environment with Blue Highway’s employees. Some workers have been there since the beginning. 
“I can’t do this myself,” he said. 
“If it wasn’t for our employees, we wouldn’t be here. That’s probably one of my driving forces: not only to make people happy, but then to see our employees, who are a part of our family, go and prosper. It’s a really good feeling.”12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
Photo by Kiera Wright-Ruiz
Family recipes with a family atmosphere can be found at Blue Highway.
Off the Main Road: Discover Blue Highway, a Pizzeria
KENDRICK BROWN
Avenue Writer
On Feb.19, :08 nightclub will host a free 
alternative to music festivals like Bonna-
roo, Coachella and SXSW for Gainesville music enthusiasts.
Dante Lima, Jose Peruyero and Marshal 
Patrick first organized the AM/FM Music Showcase in 2010 to show their apprecia-tion for a city that always supports its local bands.  
In its fourth installment, AM/FM is of-
fering an eclectic mix of more than 17 acts spanning rock, blues, folk, hip-hop, exper -
imental and indie genres.
As longtime members of the Gainesville 
music scene, all three organizers under -
stand the difficulties of gaining a follow-ing in a college town.
“It’s hard to get exposure when you’re 
fighting uphill against football and par -
ties,” Lima said. 
“So we figured a one-day festival was 
the best way to go.”
Beginning at 3:30 p.m., bands will per -
form 25-minute sets, alternating between two stages.  
This year’s showcase will feature acts that have never performed in the show-case, such as Annie and the Canyon, plus a slew of familiar faces including Pseudo Kids, Greenland is Melting, Mindrise, Darkhorse and hip-hop artist D.P .
With AM/FM co-organizer Lima on 
bass, the Pseudo Kids have released two EPs and one full-length, self-titled album that they plan to follow up with an EP in March. 
Vocalist Scott Kauffmann paints daunt-
ing portrayals of someone dealing with abandonment and alcohol dependency over instrumentals fit for dancing and par -
ties on the beach.  
The combination gives the listener an 
idea of a delusional world where Kauff-mann offers the only realistic, sometimes overly dramatic, point of view.  
Rapper D.P. is distinguished as the sole 
hip-hop act on this year’s bill.  
Fresh off of an East Coast tour with reg-
gae band The Supervillians, D.P . recently released his eighth project in five years, “The Return II.”  
His latest offering blends sonic elements 
of hip-hop, country and southern rock to complement his lyrical tales about rural upbringings, heartbreak and not having the most amicable relationship with law enforcement.  
“The Return II” can be previewed on 
www.officialdp.com where D.P . also gives people the opportunity to set their own price for the album.  
Some of Gainesville’s favorite bands 
will use the festival as a platform for re-union.  
Hard-rock aficionado Blacksnake will 
give its cult following a rare performance. 
Award-winning singer/songwriter 
Chuck Martin revives his rockabilly crew DblWiDe for the first time in nearly six years.  
With a collection of such talented bands 
and singer/songwriters, it’s obvious why the festival’s motto is “About Music, For Music.” 
But Lima contends that the concert se-
ries wouldn’t be as successful without the sponsorship of Danny and Joy Hughes’ Loosey’s Longshot bar.
“Danny helped us put on the first one by 
doing sound and essentially playing stage manager,” he said. “We’d be lost without his leadership skills. And, obviously, he’s giving up his bar to help us throw the ex-tra events, and he paid for our T-shirts.” 
“Danny and Joy are fantastic.”Loosey’s will host a pre-party on Fri-
day, Feb. 17, where fans will have the op-portunity to meet AM/FM’s acts. 
The after party immediately follows 
Sunday’s main event.  
Attendance rates have steadily in-
creased at each showcase, and the three cohorts are anticipating a packed house this showcase.  
But the goal doesn’t stop when the mu-
sic does on Feb. 19.  
Lima has hopes that the AM/FM Music 
Showcase will continue to expand with the support of Gainesville’s music and college communities.  
“We want to make it multiple days and 
multiple venues,” Lima said. 
“The dream for this has always been 
big, and with any luck, it will be an antici-pated and loved event for years to come.”
AM/FM Music Showcase displays talented local artists
“Danny helped us put on the first 
one by doing sound and essentially 
playing stage manager. We’d be 
lost without his leadership skills.”
Dante Lima
AM/FM Music Showcase organizermusicTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
MOVE IN NOW!!
1/1 in 2/2 the District on 62ndNear Oaks Mall, UF + SFCRent incl. util+cble+intrnt+...352-871-6065 ASAP     2-8-12-6-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       4-25-11-72-22BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-28-12-36-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2bed/1bath Sun Key units starting at $550
2bed/1.5bath Sun Harbor Townhouse
starting at $575
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2BR/1BA close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available Feb 1st.REDUCED to $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183     2-7-12-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099    2-6-12-21-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA great house. 
Fireplace, wash/dry provided, dishwasher, wood floors, fenced. Pets OK. 7 min bike to campus. $1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342. Gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-12-19-2★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    2-29-12-35-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA large house w/ big 
bedrooms & living room, extra game room. Fenced. Pets ok. W/D provided. 352-335-2342 or text 2100 NW 8th Court. $1400/mo or go to gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-12-19-2
1 BED/1 BATH. Walk to Shands/UF.
Great kitchen and bath with w/d, disposal, dishwasher. Overlooks creek and trees. Small pet ok. $535+ deposit. 352-371-9520, 352-317-2642    2-14-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    2-15-12-20-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-12-14-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   2-9-12-10-2
BOARDWALK 2/2 $500
Tennis & Pool Community
Near UF 2701 SW 13th Street
Sublet til July 31st @ $500/mo
End Unit 980 Sq. Ft. 'Carlyle"
Compare @ $699 - $759. Move in today!
Call Sharon @ 352-215-3198
2-3-12-10-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   2-29-11-27-2
Tumblin' Creek condo! remodeled 1bed-
1bath, balcony, wood floors, a/c, pantry, walk/bike to uf, pets neg. $725. per/mo. University Mgt, Inc. Lic. real estate broker 373-7904   2-7-12-10-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE
Prestigious Bivens Arm. 5BR house, Pool, & Dock. Bike or walk to Shands & UF. Serious grad students preferred. $2500/mo. Call 619-857-9903    2-22-12-20-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #3. Please call 352-371-3473 leave message.       2-22-12-20-2
Trend’s Student House of the Month!
2710 NW 2nd Ave
Huge 2/2 with a Den and Fireplace!
Walking Distance to Law School
Biking Distance to UF
Text “Trend” to 313131 for More Details
Trend4Rent.com
2-24-20-2
House for rent - Large home 4BR/3BA. No 
carpet. Includes range, refrig, W/D, central air & heat. 1 block from Newberry & Royal Plaza shops. $1200/mo 407-363-7198 or cell 407-234-1380    2-3-12-5-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor Townhouses $525
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
1bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $475!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
2BR/1BA APARTMENT
7210 SW 45th Place. $525/mo
No pets. Call Geri 352-538-1114    2-15-12-10-2
3 Bed House $795/mo available now & 
Aug. Central AC, wooden floors, w/d hook-ups, and a vintage style walk-ing distance to campus and downtown. University Ave & NW 8th st area. By Leo 706 Call now! 352-226-3535, 813-347-9379    
2-15-12-10-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
3-bdrm, 3-bth, till July, $725/mnth, NO 
DEPOSIT, washer-n-dryer in unit, new car-pet, Archer Rd and 34th St. Call Scott 352-281-1057   2-2-12-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 2-6-11-25-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
CONDO FOR SALE - SPARROW
3BR/2.5BA, 2-story. Approximately 1700 sq. ft., completely renovated. $65,000. Please call Drew 316-4465   2-10-12-20-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit check!!!!Cash vehicles $999 and up!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Over 150 vehicles in stock!Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
92 Eagle Talon $999
94 Ford Taurus $99994 Toyota Camry $150098 Oldsmobile Intregue $1500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 Nissan Altima $6999
04 Nissan Sentra $699902 Toyota Camry $699904 Chevy Astro $6999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
98 Dodge Ram $3999
95 Chevy Blazer $399902 Chevy Blazer $499999 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W2 and drive home today!30 Day Warranty!No Credit Check!352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check!Cars, Trucks, SUVs & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
04 Honda Accord $7999
04 Chevy Impala $799902 Honda Odyssey $799901 Toyota Solara $7999352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
05 Dodge Durango $9999
05 Ford F150 $10,99906 Saturn Ion $11,99907 Ford Mustang $12,999352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 Dodge Neon $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $199902 Kia Spectra $299901 Olds Alero $3999352-338-1999    4-25-65-12
94 Cadillac SLS $1999
99 Acura Integra $3999099 Buick Century $399995 Chevy Camero $2500352-338-1999    4-25-65-12
97 Ford Explorer $1999
97 Landrover Discovery $299998 Chevy Venture $299998 Chevy Astro $3999352-338-1999    4-25-65-12We buy unwanted vehicles with or without 
title any condition,make,year or model we pay up to $20,000 and offer free towing call 813-516-0847    2-28-20-12
97 Honda Civic EX $2900 obo
203K mi, White, Sunroof, 5spd, 2 owners, tinted windows, new tiresjaferrer@ufl.edu or 850-228-1797    2-9-12-7-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
Sexy Shopper's Needed
THE LINGERIE COMPANY
Oaks Mall Plaza            2-3-5-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
●●● FEMALE SMOKERS! ●●●
Do you want to quit smoking? Female
smokers needed to participate in a smokingcessation study. You may be compensated.Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com2-20-20-14
Warehouse Runners Needed!
Ben Hill Griffin StadiumApply M-F 8 AM - 4 PMConcessions Ofc @ Gate 185 Part-Time positions available    2-3-6-14
F/T legal admin assistant for busy law firm. 
Excellent writing, problem solving and people skills. Organized and dependable. Spanish speaking a plus. Pay DOE. Call (352) 371-4000.    2-9-12-10-14
Office asst. neededMon. & Sat. 10/hr.
Apply @ Eyecare Express 39th ave & 13th st.    2-2-12-5-14$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for spring!
Afterschool, Aquatics, Gymnastics, Office,
Rockwall, Cheer, Dance, Clean/Maint., Drivers, 
wknd hrs at Comm. Events. Must submit app: 
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html. Email
HR@suncountrysports.com for info.
2-3-12-5-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE 
BOUTIQUE NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. $8.00/hr + incentives. 352-372-1226 - 2906 NW 13th St    2-6-12-5-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
Now hiring servers, cooks, drivers & pizza 
makers. Serious workers only. Apply in per-son 5 SE 2nd Ave.   2-14-12-10-14
Looking for students!
Cat furniture manufacturer needs self-moti-vated individuals to upholster and assemble cat towers. No experience needed. Starting pay is $8.00/hr. Apply in person at 1847 S. Main St or send resume to hcarboni1@gmail.com   2-10-12-8-14
Bench Scientist Position. Research with 
ELISAs and antibody production. Familiarity with ELISAs and immunology desired. Should have a Bachelor's degree in science field. Please send resume to info@elisa-tek.com   2-20-12-14-14
Seeking experienced female caregivers for 
overnight and weekend shifts. Must pass Level 2 and local background screenings, have CPR and HIV/Infection control train-ings. $7.67-$9/hr, please call 352-225-3251    2-3-12-3-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
Healthy men and women 18 years of age 
or older are needed for a research study evaluating how a dietary supplement affects how the body breaks down a drug. If ac-cepted into this study, you will have to spend two separate 2-night stays in the Shands Clinical Research Center at Shands Medical Center. Participants will be compensated up to $400.00 upon study completion. Contact Dr. Melonie Stanton, College of Pharmacy at melonie@ufl.edu.   2-2-12-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery NeedsBonded and Insured 352-339-5158    4-4-12-53-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   2-15-12-25-16
Strip Tease AerobicsTHE LINGERIE COMPANY
Oaks Mall Plaza        2-3-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Best religion? NO religion!
Get to know your Creator.See why the Bible is unique.Your creator's love for you.You Tube: "Eric Ludy - The Gospel" (11:27)   2-9-12-10-18
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
While freshman Brad Beal leads the team in 
defensive rebounds, Florida has struggled on the glass this season, especially in SEC play. UF plays South Carolina tonight at home. See story, page 19.  
Florida’s 2012 recruiting class
What grade would you assign the Gators’ 
recruiting class for 2012? Vote online at 
alligatorSports.org.� HE SAID HE WANTED TO 
PLAY WITH MATT BARKLEY.
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
 
TAMPA — The mystery that is 
Nelson Agholor finally came to a 
conclusion Wednesday afternoon.
In a ceremony at Tampa Berke-
ley Prep, the five-star prospect an-nounced his commitment to USC over Florida, Oklahoma and Notre Dame.
Throughout his recruitment, Ag-
holor had pretty much kept to him-self, which only fed the hype sur -
rounding the soft-spoken prep star.
He quietly told reporters “thank 
you” for coming, and he delicately cradled his four-month-old nephew before the ceremony. After his an-nouncement, he hugged nearly ev-ery person in the gym full of family members and classmates, never let-ting the smile leave his face.
At the end of the day — Tuesday 
night, actually, according to Aghol-or — he decided the opportunity to catch passes from Trojans quarter -
back Matt Barkley was too good to pass up. He also said the receivers’ depth chart at USC is talented from top to bottom, another draw to Los Angeles.
“I’m going to be a part of a great 
receiving corps, and every day I’m going to battle,” he said. “They’re going to make statements. The best part about it is if I’m on the field with those guys, I’m on my way to making statements also.”
After he fielded questions from 
ESPNU on live TV , he signed his name on his letter of intent, and the decision was final. Agholor was seen exhaling in what he said was relief. Agholor said he enjoyed the pride and happiness he gave his parents through his recruitment. But now that the process is over, his mindset has totally transitioned forward to college, where he said he will con-tinue to live out his dream.
“[Last night], when I spoke to my 
head coach, Dominick Ciao, I just kept on thinking about the things he’s told us through football,” Ag-holor said. “Before games, he has a speech … and he always said after, ‘Dreams come true.’ And I’ve always had a dream to be a Trojan, no mat-ter what, throughout everything.”
Given Agholor’s self-enforced 
low profile, it seems appropriate he chose to play football at a smaller high school, where he made plays that garnered national attention. He is the type of playmaker Florida hasn’t had in a long time, so the loss was a big one for a recruiting class low on offensive talent, a major need coach Will Muschamp said would be addressed in 2013.
Florida had been considered a 
longtime favorite with its in-state ap-peal and many of Agholor’s friends among the 2012 recruiting class. But once former offensive coordinator Charlie Weis left, Agholor’s favor for the Gators seemed to wane.
“I think [No. 2] would have been 
Florida,” Agholor said. “I love coach Muschamp.… We share very similar morals outside of football. He’s a great guy and I hope his team buys into everything that he says because they will be successful one day.”
Florida did, however, sign anoth-
er wide receiver this week. Raphael Andrades, a relatively unknown three-star prospect out of Talla-hassee, signed his letter of intent Wednesday.
Andrades and early enrollee La-
troy Pittman are Florida’s only re-ceivers in the 2012 class, joining tight ends Colin Thompson and Kent Taylor, running back Matt Jones, of-fensive linemen D.J. Humphries and Jessamen Dunker, and quarterback Skyler Mornhinweg on the offensive end. By contrast, Florida claimed 14 defensive commits.
Kelly Price / Alligator
Five-star wide receiver Nelson Agholor of Tampa Berkely Prep surprised Gators fans Wednesday by 
choosing Southern Cal over Florida at an announcement ceremony at his high school in Tampa. 
Five-star Agholor spurns Florida on signing day, chooses USC
END OF GREGULATION
Will Muschamp is back from the gas station. 
He holds in his hand 23 scratch-offs. Some are 
the $5 type with huge potential payouts, like Jona-
than Bullard and D.J. Humphries. Then there are the $4 and $3 
investments like Jessamen Dunker, Latroy Pittman and Matt Jones, who aren’t as touted but could easily lead to big bucks. 
Either way, he won’t know until he gets to scuffin’.Unlike most scratch-offs, this reveal takes a while. Mus-
champ says we need to wait two or three years to start evaluat-ing a recruiting class, so let’s look back on some of UF’s past five-star shots.  
In hindsight, would anybody be that bummed if Florida 
hadn’t landed Ronald Powell in 2010? Gary Brown in 2009? Will Hill, Carl Moore or Matt Patchan in 2008? Torrey Davis or Cam Newton — oh, wait… scratch that last one — in 2007?
Point is, the names and the stars matter significantly less 
than what’s revealed after the silver latex film is rubbed away . 
Florida brought in 11 five-star players from 2007 to 2009, and only Carlos Dunlap truly panned out. 
By contrast, the 2007 class alone 
brought in eight four-star studs — Joe Haden, Aaron Hernandez, Ahmad Black, Chris Rainey , Major Wright, Jaye Howard and Mike and Maurkice Pouncey — out of 16 recruits. 
Mixed in with those success stories 
are the 19 four- or five-star players recruited from 2007-2010 who either transferred or were kicked off the team. 
Now, obviously these are pretty small samples sizes, and 
I have the luxury of picking and choosing who to highlight to make my point. 
But the fact remains that every year someone writes that too 
much importance is placed on the stars and the ratings, and every year that lesson is quickly forgotten. 
So here’s your 2012 reminder: All Florida did today was secure 23 shots in the dark. Sure, all the experts think the five-stars have a better chance to pan out than the four-stars, but at this point nobody knows. 
Urban Meyer thought he assembled a defensive front for the 
ages in 2010 with five-stars Dominique Easley , Sharrif Floyd and Ronald Powell. But it didn’t work out right away, and it remains to be seen if any of them will reach their potential. 
Why is that? Because of the way recruiting is covered. All of these five-star kids have been praised and worshiped 
for two or three years at this point, and it’s impossible for that not to get to a high-school athlete’s head. The environment breeds players who walk around campus calling themselves the “Big Three” and expect success to just come naturally.
Give me a four-star with a chip on his shoulder who feels 
slighted by the system and wants a shot to prove himself over that entitled attitude every time. 
At the end of the day, they’re all lottery tickets anyway. Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.Pointless ratings, stars system turns recruiting into crapshoot 
Greg Luca
twitter: @greglucaSportsx National Signing Day
Poll Results
Who is the Gators’ most 
feared shooting threat?50% BOYNTON 30% MURPHY 
16% BEAL         4%   WALKER
64 total votes18, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
Natalie Teer / Alligator StaffNational Signing Day
2012National Signing Day 2012 is in the books, and Florida coach Will Muschamp and his staff hauled in 
the nation’s No. 3 recruiting class. Among the highlights for the Gators are five-star defensive ends Jonathan Bullard and Dante Fowler Jr., and five-star offensive tackle D.J. Humphries.  
Willie 
Bailey6-foot-1, 167 
poundsRanking: No. 38 cornerbackHigh school: HallandaleAlso considered:  
Miami, North Carolina, South FloridaRecruited by: Aubrey Hill, Travaris Robinson
commits
Compiled by Kelly Price
- All rankings and photos from Rivals.com
Jonathan 
Bullard6-foot-3, 263 
poundsRanking: No. 1 defensive endHigh school: Shelby, N.C., CrestAlso considered: Clemson, South CarolinaRecruited by: D.J. Durkin
Bryan Cox, 
Jr.6-foot-3, 247 pounds
Ranking: No. 37 strongside defensive endHigh school: Fort Lauderdale St. Thomas AquinasAlso considered:  
North CarolinaRecruited by: Aubrey Hill
Damien 
Jacobs6-foot-3, 310 pounds
Ranking: No. 3 JUCO defensive tackleJUCO: Scooba, Miss., East Mississippi Community CollegeAlso considered:  
Tennessee, Mississippi State, Texas A&M, Texas TechRecruited by: Dan Quinn
Rhaheim 
Ledbetter5-foot-11, 195 
poundsRanking: No. 25 safetyHigh school: Boiling Springs, N.C., CrestAlso considered: Clemson, South Carolina, Auburn, North CarolinaRecruited by: D.J. Durkin
JaFar 
Mann6-foot-3, 293 
poundsRanking: No. 48 defensive tackleHigh school: Stone Mountain, Ga., StephensonAlso considered: Miami, Tennessee, Auburn, GeorgiaRecruited by: Travaris Robinson
Alex 
McCalister6-foot-6, 223 
poundsRanking: No. 26 weakside defensive endHigh school:  
Clemmons, N.C., West ForsythAlso considered:  
Georgia Tech, North CarolinaRecruited by: D.J. Durkin
Antonio 
Morrison6-foot-1, 209 
poundsRanking: No. 10 inside linebackerHigh school: Bolingbrook, Ill., BolingbrookAlso considered:  
Alabama, Oregon, TennesseeRecruited by: Bryant Young
 Dante 
Phillips6-foot-6, 270 pounds
Ranking: No. 9 defensive tackleHigh school: VeniceAlso considered:  
Auburn, Miami, South FloridaRecruited by: D.J. Durkin, Dan Quinn
 
Jeremi 
Powell6-foot-1, 193 
poundsRanking: No. 17 outside linebackerHigh school: Largo Pinellas ParkAlso considered:  
Marshall, South Florida, South CarolinaRecruited by: D.J. Durkin, Derek Lewis
Quinteze 
Williams6-foot-5, 255 
poundsRanking: No. 22 strongside defensive endHigh school: Tyrone, Ga. Sandy CreekAlso considered:  
Georgia, Tennessee, FSURecruited by:  
Travaris Robinson, Dan Quinn
Dante 
Fowler Jr.6-foot-3, 261 
poundsRanking: No. 3 weakside defensive endHigh school:  
St. Petersburg LakewoodAlso considered:  
FSU, USCRecruited by: Derek Lewis
Austin 
Hardin5-foot-10, 204 
poundsRanking: No. 11 kickerHigh school: Atlanta, Ga., Marist SchoolAlso considered: Auburn, TennesseeRecruited by: n/a
D.J. 
Humphries6-foot-6, 271 pounds
Ranking: No. 1 offensive tackleHigh school: Charlotte, N.C., Mallard CreekAlso considered:  
Tennessee, AuburnRecruited by: Frank Verducci
Matt 
Jones6-foot-2, 213 
poundsRanking: No. 15 running backHigh school: Seffner ArmwoodAlso considered:  
Auburn, Alabama, Georgia, Oregon, Southern Cal, Notre DameRecruited by: Brian White, Derek Lewis
Latroy 
Pittman6-foot-0, 195 
poundsRanking: No. 32 wide receiverHigh school: Citra North MarionAlso considered:  
FSU, Notre Dame, Georgia, AlabamaRecruited by: n/a. 
 Kent 
Taylor6-foot-5, 225 
poundsRanking: No. 1 tight endHigh school: Land O’ LakesAlso considered:  
LSU, Alabama, Penn State, Georgia, FSURecruited by: Charlie Weis, Derek Lewis
 
Colin 
Thompson6-foot-4, 252 
poundsRanking: No. 6 tight endHigh school: Warminster, Pa., Archbishop Wood CatholicAlso considered: Wisconsin, Boston CollegeRecruited by: Charlie Weis, Derek Lewis
Marcus 
Maye5-foot-11, 200 
poundsRanking: No. 5 safetyHigh school: Melbourne Holy TrinityAlso considered:  
FSU, Alabama, Auburn, LSU, Miami, Michigan, South Carolina, TennesseeRecruited by: n/a
Brian 
Poole5-foot-10, 202 
poundsRanking: No. 5 cornerbackHigh school:  
Bradenton SoutheastAlso considered:  
Notre Dame, Western Kentucky, FSU, LSU, Georgia, AlabamaRecruited by: Derek Lewis, Travaris Robinson
Jessamen 
Dunker6-foot-2, 320 
poundsRanking: No. 5 offensive guardHigh school: Boynton BeachAlso considered: Auburn, FSU, Georgia, Alabama, LSU, MiamiRecruited by: Aubrey Hill
Skyler 
Mornhinweg6-foot-3, 190 
poundsRanking: N/R quarterbackHigh school: Philadelphia, Pa., St. Joseph’sAlso considered:  
Penn State, Stanford, TennesseeRecruited by: Brent Pease
Raphael 
Andrades6-foot, 190 pounds
Ranking: No. 99 wide receiverHigh school: Tallahassee LincolnAlso considered:  
Arkansas, StanfordRecruited by:  Aubrey 
Hill THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 19
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Billy Donovan entered 
Southeastern Conference play 
for the 16th time in his career with the belief that he had coached worse rebounding teams. 
Four years ago, Donovan 
said his frontcourt consisted of 6-foot-8 Dan Werner at power forward and 6-foot-8 Alex Tyus at center, with 6-foot guard Wal-ter Hodge often used at small forward. That 2008-2009 team nursed its way to the league’s worst rebounding average and third-lowest rebounding per -
centage in the SEC.
“I don’t feel like personnel-
wise like it was several years ago, where we were totally overwhelmed and all I could think was, ‘What are we going to do to protect the post here? Because if we are just going to play one-on-one, we will be overwhelmed.’ I don’t feel that way ,” Donovan said two days after Florida’s SEC-opening loss to Tennessee.
Six games into 2012’s con-
ference slate, the team previ-ously considered his  poorest rebounding squad has fresh competition.
The No. 14 Gators (17-4, 5-1 
SEC), who haul in a rebound on a league-worst 44.9  percent of their opportunities, also rank last in the conference with just 29.2 rebounds per game. Even the SEC’s current last place team, South Carolina (9-11, 1-5), which UF hosts tonight at 9, is able to garner a rebound 50 percent of the time.
“With (Patric) Young and 
Will Yeguete and (Erik) Mur -
phy , I’m not saying that we’re the best rebounding team in the league, but I feel comfortable, like we can hold our own on the backboard,” Donovan said in early January . “I think we can do that, that the commit-ment is there to do it.”
While the 6-foot-9 Young, 
a sophomore center, has been held out of the Gators’ start-ing lineup in each of their SEC games with a right ankle injury , freshman Brad Beal was skepti-cal that the big man’s absence was the main reason for Flori-da’s rebounding woes.
Beal, a 6-foot-3 guard, is 
leading UF with 102 defensive rebounds this season — 13 more than Young.
“That’s not just necessarily 
because Pat’s out,” Beal said. “I’m a three man; I’m the big-gest guard, so I have to fight and get rebounds as well. I can’t just leave the big guys down there hanging, so I really just try to put my body in place and just try to rebound as best 
as I can.”
T h o u g h 
Florida has won five 
s t r a i g h t d e s p i t e Young’s lim-ited minutes, the team has also been 
out-rebounded four times dur -
ing that stretch. In each game, the ranked Gators have entered as the favorite, yet have trailed by halftime twice.  
A week ago, Ole Miss held 
a 16-point first-half lead helped by a 17-8 advantage on the boards. The Rebels would go on to out-rebound the Gators 41-23. On Saturday , Mississippi State won the glass by a 34-26 margin.
“We got out-rebounded in 
both games, but I think we bat-tled,” Murphy said. “We are a smaller team size-wise but you just got to keep fighting in the game and I think we’ll be al-right.”
Contact John Boothe at 
jboothe@alligator.org.
UF near top of SEC, 
last in reboundingRECRUITING
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
MIRAMAR — Tracy Howard could never really see 
himself playing at Miami. 
For most of his recruitment, the five-star Miramar 
High corner was convinced he was going to Florida.
“I never gave Miami a chance,” Howard said. “I al-
ways told myself, ‘Man, I don’t want to go to Miami.’ I 
never gave them a chance and never tried to get down there. When the coaches called me, I was like, ‘I’m not talking to them, I don’t want to go to Miami because I wanted to go away and experience the college feeling.’”
That all changed with a visit to Coral Gables during 
the weekend, and Howard, the nation’s No. 1 corner -
back according to Rivals.com, chose the Hurricanes over the Gators on Wednesday morning.
The talented 5-foot-11, 175-pound defensive back 
wasn’t even planning on taking a visit to Miami, the first school to offer him a scholarship. He had already taken four of his five official visits: Florida, FSU, West Virginia and USC. His last was supposed to be to LSU.
That is, until the middle of January when former 
Florida wide receivers coach Billy Gonzales, who report-edly left Gainesville on bad terms two years ago for an assistant coaching position at LSU, left the Tigers for the offensive coordinator job at Illinois.
When that happened, Howard canceled his LSU visit 
and decided to check out Miami.
“To be honest, I went down to the Miami visit with 
a closed mind,” Howard said. “I was like, ‘I’m locked down, I’m going to Florida.’”But on Saturday, the second day of his official visit 
to UM, Howard had a change of heart and opened up to the idea of becoming a Hurricane. He told Miramar High teammate Malcolm Lewis, a UM oral commit since November, that night he knew Miami was the right place for him.
“It felt like I was in another world,” Howard said. 
“When I seen that, I was like, ‘Why not do it in my city with a group of guys I truly love?’”
Despite feeling at home in Coral Gables and notify-
ing coaches Tuesday , Howard wasn’t completely sure of his decision until Wednesday morning, just hours before he publicly announced in front of a packed Miramar au-ditorium and on national television.
He weighed his options and looked at the opportu-
nity each school presented, including the chance to play right away . 
Howard said UM presented a better opportunity to 
see the field immediately. At UF, he would have to battle Marcus Roberson, Cody Riggs, Jaylen Watkins and four-star signee Brian Poole for a spot in the Gators’ youthful secondary.
“You don’t ever want to feel like you let anybody 
down,” Howard said, “but at the end of the day it’s a business decision, and I have to do what’s best for me.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.Howard makes last-minute decision
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
DA YTONA BEACH — The 
Gators lost one of their own on Na-
tional Signing Day in four-star de-fensive end Leonard Williams.
The Daytona Beach Mainland 
defensive end passed on Florida — his favorite team growing up — and committed to Southern California on Wednesday morning.
“I always wanted to go to Florida 
ever since I was little — that’s been my team forever,” Williams said. “But after I experienced all of this, I just really found out what was best for me.”
Williams’ decision comes on the 
heels of a week marred by the stress of family issues.
His maternal grandmother 
slipped into a coma this week.
“It was hard because I had a lot of 
stuff going on, like family problems going at the same time,” Williams said. “I had to take time to do family stuff and [recruiting] stuff.”
When asked if his grandmother 
would approve of his decision to attend USC, Williams said, “Yeah. Yeah, she would love it.”
Williams was one of eight tar -
gets that the Gators failed to sign on 
Wednesday.
Notable five-
stars that escaped Will Muschamp’s grasp were re-ceiver Nelson Agholor and cor -
nerback Tracy Howard, who committed to 
USC and Miami, respectively.
Florida seemingly whiffed on 
five-star linebacker Josh Harvey-Clemons also, who announced his intentions to attend Georgia Wednesday morning.However, an ESPN report stated 
the Harvey-Clemons family wanted him to pick UF and as of press time, he has not yet sent a letter of intent.
Muschamp made waves when he 
visited Clemons’ church in Valdosta, Ga., making a donation that Clem-ons’ grandfather said “surprised” the collection plate, according to the Atlanta Journal Constitution.
In addition to the aforementioned 
five-star recruits, UF also missed out on improving its offensive line depth, losing four-star tackle Avery Young to Auburn and three-star tackle Jake Meador to Wisconsin.
Despite bringing in only five com-
mits at wide receiver, halfback, and offensive line — three of Florida’s thinnest positions — Muschamp is not concerned with the recruits he missed out on.
“No,” he said. “We’ll be fine.”Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@
alligator.org.
Gators miss on Williams, top targets
Florida addresses depth concerns on both lines with 2012 class
about the guys we’ve got in that group.”
Florida finished 40th in rushing defense 
last season, but the team was gashed con-
siderably during four straight losses in Oc-tober to Alabama, LSU, Auburn and Geor-gia, allowing an average of 201 yards on the ground. Conversely, the Gators couldn’t get the run game going on offense during those games, averaging just 43.8 yards during the losing streak despite a per-game mark of 187.1 in all others. 
Countless times, Muschamp has point-
ed to the Southeastern Conference being a line-of-scrimmage league, and countless times, he pointed to his team’s struggles in that area as the catalyst for a disappointing season. Florida had to crosstrain players at multiple positions along the defensive line, and that lack of depth certainly played into the defensively heavy nature of this year’s class. 
“We really struggled up front with our 
depth on the defensive line,” Muschamp said. “We really needed to address that. On the offensive line, we really got everybody back. We added two offensive linemen, certainly that will be more of a focus next year.”
Adding to the bulk in this class, Mus-
champ secured commitments from the No. 1 offensive lineman, five-star tackle D.J. Humphries, as well as four-star Boynton Beach guard Jessamen Dunker, who comes to UF with SEC-ready size at 6-foot-4, 320 pounds. Both have enrolled early and will participate in spring practice, something Muschamp said would be a distinct advan-tage toward seeing the field this fall. 
“Them being able to go through 15 days 
of spring practice is going to be huge,” he said. “They’re both two very good, big ath-letes who move very well, great feet, change of direction, very flexible, can bend, both 
powerful guys.”
The Gators also 
added two of the top tight ends in 
the nation with the commitments of Kent Taylor and Colin Thompson, a powerful wide receiver in four-star Latroy Pittman and a solid running back in four-star Matt Jones of Seffner Armwood. 
They also improved an already deep de-
fensive back seven with the grabs of four-star cornerback Brian Poole, four-star safety Marcus Maye and four-star linebackers An-tonio Morrison and Jeremi Powell. 
With an impressive haul, Muschamp’s 
first full class has drawn rave reviews, plac-ing in the top five of every major recruiting service’s rankings. Still, Muschamp said he realizes that stars and rankings mean little once the pads are strapped on. 
“We’ll know about this class in two or 
three years,” he said. “I’ll tell you the same thing I did last year: Football is a develop-mental game, and you got to develop the players. …  It’s not about winning in Feb-ruary. It’s about winning in the fall and de-veloping your football team and addressing your needs, and I think we’ve done that.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.
org.
RECRUITING , from page 1Williams
Beal
UF Recruiting“To be honest, I went down to the Miami 
visit with a closed mind.”
Tracy Howard
UM cornerback20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2012
