VOLUME 106 ISSUE 107 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Billy Joel tickets sell out in four hours
Joel will speak Thursday, read the story at alligator.org.  
Human skeleton found in woods near Newberry Road
The remains are unidentiﬁ  ed, read the story at alligator.orgBernie Machen to join Board of Trustees of 
medical research institute
Read the story at alligator.orgGloZell is a 
proud Gator grad 
and YouTube star. 
Read more about her 
wild sense of humor 
and comedy goals on 
page 9.
81/63
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Relationship drama turned violent Wednes-
day morning when a girl’s ex-boyfriend was 
charged with stabbing her current beau.
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce arrest-
ed Bruce J. O’Brien, 22, on attempted homicide charges. The victim, Alexander R. Martinez, 20, was treated for minor injuries at Shands at UF.
At about 8 a.m. Wednesday , O’Brien 
brought some of his ex-girlfriend’s belongings to the apartment that she and Martinez share in the Tower Village complex on Southwest 44th Place. Before O’Brien could get inside, though, Martinez confronted him.
According to an arrest report, O’Brien re-
cently sent threatening text messages to Mar-tinez and wrote that he was going to kill him. But another woman who lives with Martinez and the girlfriend said Martinez does not own a cellphone.
Either way, Martinez asked O’Brien on 
Wednesday if the two had a problem that needed to be addressed, according to police. O’Brien said that, indeed, they did. Then, he pulled out a knife.He stabbed Martinez three times in the up-
per chest before running away.
The sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce responded to a call from 
the apartment at 8:34 a.m., Sgt. Todd Kelly said. When they arrived, Martinez seemed OK. He was walking around the apartment and talk-ing to ofﬁ  cers, but paramedics still drove Mar-tinez to Shands at UF to treat the stab wounds. He was treated and released without surgery Wednesday afternoon. 
The sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce dispatched a K-9 unit to 
ﬁ  nd O’Brien, Kelly said. The search was not successful, but ofﬁ  cers received a call at 9:48 p.m. from a woman who saw O’Brien in the Tower Oaks neighborhood, which is about two miles north of Martinez’s apartment. The relationship between O’Brien and the woman who called is unclear.   
Kelly said ofﬁ  cers found O’Brien in the 
neighborhood about 10 minutes later. He was held at the Alachua County Jail on Wednesday night. 
Martinez could not be reached for com-
ment, and the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce did not release the name of his girlfriend. The woman who lives with Martinez said he was visiting his girlfriend’s grandparents’ house Wednesday night. The roommate did not know where they lived. 
She also said the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce conﬁ  scated 
the girlfriend’s phone.
Man charged with stabbing ex-girlfriend’s new boyfriend
Victim was stabbed three times in chest, police saidJULIA GLUM, CLARE LENNON   and 
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Staff Writers
Capping off an election with his-
toric voter turnout, the Unite Party’s presidential and vice-presidential candidates won with 50.27 percent of the vote.
On Tuesday and Wednesday, 
10,644 students voted — the high-est turnout since 1983, when 12,191 students cast ballots.
Unite Party presidential candi-
date Tj Villamil and vice presiden-tial candidate Sabine Justilien won the president-vice president ticket by 114 votes over Students Party presidential candidate Alex Cor-nillie and his running mate, Jesse Schmitt.
Juan Rodriguez , Unite Party 
candidate for  treasurer, won with 53.65 percent of total votes over Carly Wilson.
A majority vote is needed to win 
a position, and the election codes do not list a need for a recount unless no candidate captures a majority of the votes.
Villamil gave a short speech to 
his supporters.
“This wasn’t victory for me,” he 
bellowed. “This wasn’t a victory for Juan and Sabine. This was a victory for students.”
Supervisor of Elections Toni Megna announced the results to supporters of both political parties outside the Reitz Union’s Orange & Brew around midnight Wednes-day.  
She had to scream to be heard 
above the crowd.
Megna declined to comment on a 
reason for the turnout increase.
Students Party vice presidential 
candidate Schmitt attributed the in-crease to his party.
“No one has ever done what 
we’ve done, and I think all of cam-pus recognizes it,” he said.
Justilien applauded the strength 
of all the candidates.
“It was really close because you 
had legit candidates,” she said. “[Students Party candidates] had a ﬁ  rm backing, and I really support them.”
UF students had two days to vote 
for representatives to the Student Senate and the executive SG ofﬁ  ces. 
Both parties nominated candi-
dates for Student Body President and Vice President, who are on one joined ticket, as well as candidates for Student Body Treasurer.UNITE WINS IN CLOSE RACE
Andre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Above (top): Tj Villamil celebrates winning the Student Government presidency early Thursday morning outside the Reitz Union. Above (bottom): Students Party executive ticket candidates Alex Cornillie and Jesse Schmitt react to the announcement of election results.Highest voter turnout 
in election since 1983
Brett LeBlanc / Alligator Staff
SEE ELECTION, PAGE 5“It was really close because 
you had legit candidates.”
Sabine Justilien
Unite Party vice presidential candidateNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 107 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Rachel Rowan, Nika Zecevic
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett,   
  David Williams
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 A
dvertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
71/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
64/43THUNDER
STORMS
82/52PARTLY
CLOUDY
81/63
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Decorated IDF captain & profes-
sor to speak on LGBT rights 
in IsraelToday, 6 p.m.Hillel, 2020 West University AvenueJoin us at Hillel for an intimate discussion with Capt. Avner Even-Zohar. He will be dis-cussing the Queer Liberation Movement in Israel. 
The Last Prophet
Today, 6:30 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomCome out to the last lecture event of Islam Awareness Month featuring Omar Suleiman as we discuss who the Prophet Muhammad was and some common miscon-ceptions about the Islamic faith. Food will be provided.
UF Symphonic Band Concert
Today, 7:30 p.m.University AuditoriumConductor and musical direc-tor John M. Watkins Jr. and the UF Symphonic Band pres-ent a concert of contemporary works for band, including the world premiere of a new piece dedicated to the founding of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies: “A Soliloquy for Solferino.” Anna Palsma will also guest conduct. The con-cert is free for UF students.
Reitz Union Board Presents: 
“The Muppets”Today 8 to 10:30 p.m.Reitz Union AuditoriumWith the help of three fans (Jason Segel, Amy Adams and the voice of Chris Cooper), The Muppets must reunite to save their old theater from a greedy oil tycoon. All showings are free and open to the public
Fundraiser for the Alachua 
County Humane SocietyToday, 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.Smokehouse Downtown, 104 S Main St.Go support the Alachua County Humane Society and help end the euthanasia of companion animals in Alachua County by 2015. There will be a live performer and drink specials.
Cross Examined: The Evidence 
for BeliefToday to Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.The Ocora at Pugh HallJoin Dr. Subodh Pandit as he presents a free lecture series. Pandit, born and raised in India, is a licensed, board-cer-tified physician. His 20-year search for a reason to believe led him through the questions of atheism, postmodernism and pluralism to a unique method of comparing the five great world religions. For more information visit face-book.com/pandituf or email at ufwsa.blogspot.com. 
Registration is $15 and in-cludes breakfast, a keynote speaker, leadership work-shops, lunch, an organiza-tion fair, a speaker panel, a gift bag, networking op-portunities and more. The keynote speaker will be Karen DeYoung, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and an associate editor for The Washington Post.
Maslenitsa 
Sunday, 2 p.m.Pugh Hall OcaraThe UF Russian Club is cel-ebrating Maslenitsa, which translates to either Pancake Week or Butter Week in English. This holiday in Russia is much like Mardi Gras. Maslenitsa signals the end of winter and the beginning of spring. It is also a time of great feast be-fore Lent. People eat Blini, (Russian pancakes), which will be served.
Gainesville Roller Rebels roller 
derbySunday, 7 p.m.Skate Station Funworks, 1311 NW 76th Blvd.The Swamp City Sirens will compete against the Millhopper Devils in Gainesville Roller Rebels’ intra-league bout and sea-son opener. Tickets are $8 in advance and $10 at the door. Tickets are available at Sweet Dreams Ice Cream, Volta Coffee, Tea and Chocolates or brownpapertickets.com. A halftime raffle will benefit the GRR Injured Skater Fund. Visit gainesvillerollerrebels.com for more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.uf.babyisaac@gmail.com
University Commons 5K-9
Saturday, 8 a.m. 
2601 SW Archer RoadBring your dogs to the third annual 5K-9 at University Commons. Events include a timed 5K race and a one-mile fun run/walk with do-nations benefiting local pet charities. Visitfacebook.com/uc5k9 for de-tails and to register early for a discount.
Disc Golf Tournament
Saturday, 10 a.m.Lake Wauburg’s South ShoreThe tournament will have two heats of 18 holes each with men’s and women’s amateur and advanced divi-sions. The top three partici-pants in each division will receive a prize. The event is free for students. Faculty, staff and non-UF affiliates with a student sponsor may participate for $20. For more information, visit recsports.ufl.edu.
UF SASE hosts QuickRace 
Hunt for E-Week.
Saturday, 11 a.m.Reitz Union ColonnadeThe QuickRace is a race to find a path of QR codes hid-den throughout campus. Each team registered will receive an initial QR code hinting to the location of the next code and so on. Prizes will be announced during the event. Participants may have up to four people per team, and there will be a limited number of teams. For more information visit www.facebook.com/events/230992616993435/.
Indian Student Association 
presents “An Evening With 
Penn Masala”Saturday, 7 p.m.University AuditoriumThe event is free and open to the public. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. and the show be-gins at 7 p.m.Penn Masala is the world’s first Hindi a cappella group formed by students at the University of Pennsylvania.
Twenty-fifth Annual Women’s 
Leadership Conference
Sunday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomRegistration is open  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Ash Wednesday
Meredith Rowe, a 19-year-old advertising sophomore and the junior warden of the Episcopal Chapel of 
the Incarnation, has ash placed on her forehead by the Rev. Rich Clark, 41, of Gainesville, on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday afternoon. This was the Episcopal Chapel of the Incarnation’s first Ash Wednesday ceremony on campus.
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Contributing Writer
State officials published 
the social security numbers 
of 719 individuals who were owed a check or a refund from UF. They discovered the mistake this January, six years after the information was originally published.
The problem began in July 
2005, when UF submitted its annual unclaimed property report to the Florida Depart-ment of Financial Services. The state disclosed infor -
mation in the report, which contained individuals’ social security numbers, on its Bu-reau of Unclaimed Property website.
Officials didn’t discover 
the posting until Jan. 12 of this year and took the infor -
mation off the website the same day, according to a UF press release. The university was notified Saturday. UF’s Privacy Office wrote a letter dated from Monday to those affected.
UF spokeswoman Janine 
Sikes said UF met the federal deadline to notify those af-fected.
“It usually takes time for 
us to research whose names belong to what,” Sikes said. “We have an investigation.”
It is not known if the infor -
mation was used by anyone, but it was web accessible. UF checked information for other submitted annual re-ports posted online and said no other restricted data was mistakenly disclosed.State fixes published 
social security numbers THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
� ABOUT 50 PEOPLE ARE 
PARTICIPATING IN THE FAST.
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
Three UF students will spend 
their Spring Break fasting to 
bring attention to the unfair treatment of tomato pickers.
Victor Yengle, a 23-year-old 
economics junior, Juliette Bar-bera, a 20-year-old criminology junior, and Rain Araneda, a 31-year-old environmental engi-neering senior, will join about 50 others in a weeklong fast to pro-test Publix’s refusal to join a mi-grant workers rights campaign.
The fast, which will last dur-
ing UF’s Spring Break from March 3 to March 10, is being fueled in part by pent-up dis-appointment over the failure of two Florida tuition bills — one which would have granted in-state tuition to students whose parents are undocumented and another that could have given in-state tuition to undocument-ed students.
At the center of some stu-
dents’ frustration is Florida Sen. Steve Oelrich, who voted against one of the bills when it came be-fore his committee and whose constituents include Gainesville residents. But supporters’ atten-tions are now focused on con-vincing Publix CEO Ed Cren-shaw to speak with the activists.
Gainesville religious and po-litical leaders thanked the activ-ists for their efforts Wednesday afternoon during a press confer-ence.
“I commend and I honor the 
work of the [supporters] for act-ing on these words,” said City Commissioner Randy Wells. “That is powerful.”
Yengle and Barbera will join 
other supporters in Lakeland to fast. Araneda will fast on her own while she volunteers with Habitat for Humanity in Geor-gia.
Yengle said he is protesting 
to make students aware of the issues workers face, particularly those in Immokalee, Fla., who are fighting against below-min-imum-wage pay, sexual harass-ment and a lack of basic human rights.
In addition, he said he hopes 
the UF administration takes his actions to heart if it chooses to work with Publix in the future. He said he hopes UF will en-courage Publix to sign onto the campaign.
“I wouldn’t want our aca-
demic excellence to be attached to any injustices,” he said.
For him, the issue of equal 
rights for immigrants hits close to home.
He moved from Trujillo, Peru, 
to Sarasota in the early 2000s. He is still jumping through immi-gration hoops.
Despite the failure of the tu-
ition bills, activists said they want to channel their anger and frustration into positive energy for other causes.UF students to fast in 
support of migrantsUnite wins 31 seats in Student Senate
Each semester, 50 new sena-
tors are elected.
Unite Party nominated 49 
candidates for Senate, and the 
Students Party nominated 34 candidates. 
Two students ran indepen-
dent from either political party.
Unite won 31 Senate seats 
and the Students Party won 19.
Supporters and candidates 
from both parties campaigned from Feb. 1 until the end of the elections at 8:30 p.m. Wednes-day.
Some controversy surround-
ed the elections.
“I think it was a dirty year 
with sensationalized media, but students didn’t listen to it,” said Unite Party spokeswoman Christina Bonarrigo. “They listened to the Unite Party, and they knew what we were about.”
Megna said 14 complaints 
were filed by the deadline, which is before elections results are read. 
Two complaints were al-ready handled, and one against the Students Party was post-poned. It will be heard by the Supreme Court on Sunday.
Eleven complaints were filed 
Wednesday, 10 by the Students Party against the Unite Party and one by the Unite Party against the Students Party.
The Election Commission 
already recommended the dis-qualification of the three Stu-dents Party engineering Senate candidates. 
Any decisions made by the 
commission can be appealed to the Supreme Court.
It also recommended that 
engineering students’ votes for the Students Party executive ticket not be counted.
The Supreme Court will meet 
Sunday to make the final ruling on this as well as any other ap-peals the Students Party makes.
The Election Commission 
will meet Friday to hear the rest of the complaints.
“We’ll have to wait and see 
on Sunday,” Cornillie said.
A referendum to add two 
justices to the UF Supreme Court passed with 82.49 percent of the vote. 
There are currently four jus-
tices in addition to the Supreme Justice. 
Students were not required 
to vote on the referendum; they could have chosen to abstain.ELECTION , from page 1
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Supervisor of Elections Toni Megna pauses during the election re-
sults announcement as a University Police officer addresses her about people in the crowd standing on tables.
“I think it was a dirty 
year with sensationalized 
media, but students didn’t 
listen to it.”
Christina Bonarrigo
Unite Party spokeswomanReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR244 TOTAL VOTES43% YES
57% NOFriday’s question: Will you go to Relish 
downtown? Today’s question: Are you surprised by the SG election 
results?Politics Never Sleep
National, state   
elections still ahead
Elections are over.
But they are only finished at UF.
For those who have been caught up in the nasty back-
and-forth of this election, it’s time to focus your attention on what’s really important.
The Republican Party is in the process of selecting a nominee 
to challenge President Obama in the 2012 election.
There will be 435 elections across the country this November 
to determine the makeup of the U.S. House of Representatives, 27 of which will be in Florida. There will be 33 U.S. Senate seats up for re-election as well.
In Tallahassee, all 40 seats of the Florida Senate and all 120 
seats of the Florida House of Representatives will be contested.
There are going to be sweeping changes all over the country 
and especially in Florida this year, so it’s time to turn our focus to these contests.
After the primaries, the direction of higher education, includ-
ing things like student loans, will all be part of the national de-bate, even at the presidential level.
But the real decisions that are going to directly affect the stu-
dents of Florida will be made in Tallahassee.
While we have been bickering among ourselves on campus 
about these SG elections, there has been a lot happening in the Florida Legislature.
Earlier this month, a bill that would have given in-state tu-
ition to students who are U.S. citizens but born to illegal immi-grants was defeated.
Frankly , UF Student Government does not have any say on a 
matter that would likely affect hundreds of students in the state of Florida. Your representatives in Tallahassee do.
Last week, the Florida Senate Higher Education Committee 
approved a measure that would allow Florida universities, in-cluding UF, to raise tuition above the current allowed increases, if those universities meet 11 of 14 requirements.
This is a huge issue that deserves a lot of attention from stu-
dents. If tuition is not increased, the state legislature will likely find areas to cut.
Unless students become actively involved and aware of what 
decisions are being made in Tallahassee, we will all likely face huge changes in the coming year.
The SG elections are done. It’s time to focus on other mat-
ters.
Become informed about the issues, the candidates and the up-
coming elections. Find out where your state representative, your state senator, your U.S. representative, your U.S. senator and the presidential candidates stand on these important issues.
Find out what bills are going through these governing bod-
ies, and write letters to your representatives in support or op-position.
The past few days have been filled with a mixture of impor -
tant conversation, civic participation and silly , petty rhetoric. Now, we must keep in mind the importance of the changes oc-curring this year.
Be informed. Don’t let politicians pull a fast one on you.Obama should stand up to religious groups
For several people, their opinions about social issues are a gut feeling that they often defend despite the facts, not because of them. As the issues of religion 
and contraception take center stage in American politics, let’s be sure we’re making informed decisions, not in-flammatory ones.
Here is a little background: In January, President 
Obama announced that most health insurance plans must cover contraceptives for women free of charge. 
“The rule does not apply to church organizations 
themselves, but rather to affiliated nonprofit corpora-tions, like hospitals,” according to an article from The New York Times.
Even though 28 states currently have similar rules, 
the policy set off a political firestorm between religious organizations and the Obama administration.
Ultimately, it boils down to religious groups not want-
ing to supply contraception, free of charge, and Obama wanting to mandate that certain organizations supply contraception, with a few sensitive exceptions. Even as a conservative, I believe Obama is correct in his decision.
The Roman Catholic Church requested full exemp-
tion from the rule, which means that they would not have to cover contraceptives for Catholic hospitals, col-leges or charities. Such an exemption is ridiculous. The Catholic church should have to follow the law just like everyone else.
Republicans — and, mind you, I am Republican — 
often suffer under the delusion that Obama’s policies are an all-or-nothing game, and  that we are either forced to partake in the policy or get nothing at all. Indeed, the president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops released a statement saying, “Never before has the federal government forced individuals and organi-zations to go out into the marketplace and buy a product that violates their conscience.”
Well, Mr. Bishop, nobody is forcing individuals to 
buy and take birth control. The U.S. government is right-ly mandating that institutions make it available, which is a completely separate issue. To force women to take birth control would be wrong. To allow women the choice to take it is right.
Ultimately, government is 
about the separation of church and state. Religious organiza-tions must follow the same rules as every other organiza-tion. Mitt Romney is wrong in saying that the administra-
tion is “using Obamacare to impose a secular vision on Americans.” No, Obama is rightly maintaining the bal-ance between church and state. While religion must be respected, so too must the law.
You know, the Bible also says that a disobedient son 
should be stoned to death, but thankfully our govern-ment does not make an exception for this just because it clashes with religious teaching. We cannot function as a society if we create our laws on the basis of any one reli-gion. Our religious organizations cannot shape our laws, and it is unfortunate that the Roman Catholic Church has as much influence over our politics as it currently does.
Obama — being the political milquetoast that he is 
— sought to ease the tension by creating an “accommo-dation” with the Catholic bishops over the rule. Unsur -
prisingly, the zealous United States Conference of Cath-olic Bishops rejected the compromise. President Obama should not be bowing to the will of these religious orga-nizations merely because he needs them for reelection. While I do support Obama’s initial decision, his consis-tent ability to back down from a fight is stunning.
The fact is that this is the 21st century, and we 
shouldn’t even be debating about the use of contracep-tion. The fact is that 98 percent of Catholic women have used artificial contraception anyway. The fact is that Obama should stand by his initial decision and not be making accommodations for religious groups.
Garrett Bruno is a political science sophomore at UF. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Garrett Bruno
opinions@alligator.org THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
When Unite Party males get all up 
in my business while I’m trying to walk to class, I typically turn to 
them and say , “Sorry , I don’t care what you have to say unless you want to have sex with me.” As they stare on — dumbstruck and with mouths hanging agape — I say , “Now you know how it feels.” I feel smug and self-satisfied with my cleverness for at least an hour afterward.
Once I’m done feeling smug, two  ques-
tions always occur to me: Why do members of Greek life rule Student Government and lots of organizations bearing an official UF seal? And why do they dress and act alike?
This is my theory:First, stereotypes can sometimes favor a 
group and even going as far as to make certain groups seem more desirable. Example: The stereotype about the legendary black male ... well, you know. The fraternity brothers dress and act like older businessmen, sharing in the preexisting stereotype that these older gentle-men are great in bed. And what about the so-rority sisters, you ask? Whenever I see them around frat guys, their voices shoot up an oc-tave, which seems to be a turn on.
Second, Greeks fit the “modest yet eager 
to succeed” image that UF projects in order to attract employers and parents while also opening donor checkbooks.
But how does fitting this image lead to po-
sitions? That’s a little less straightforward.
Whenever the university creates organiza-
tions like any of the ambassadors groups, it handpicks marketable students for these po-sitions. The university parades them around in front of employers, parents and wealthy potential donors — further reinforcing the image and giving members networking op-portunities. And these kids get hired.
Greeks seem to understand the benefits of 
joining this system, as do I. Notice how their dress code is the same as the attire of students in most UF promotional pamphlets? The fra-ternities and sororities offer a constant stream of smiling, uncon-troversial students for the university to have at its disposal. The university then lets them head Stu-dent Government, which determines the groups that will 
receive funding.
If UF didn’t benefit from all this, it would 
do things like place limits on SG campaign spending. But just like any other bureaucracy, UF acts in the interest of its own survival. It will work for students if they get involved in the university’s mission. It will work against them if they do not.
Skeptical?Well riddle me this: Why is our student 
newspaper unaffiliated with the university? Why does UPD need only, say, someone “in-terfered with the work of the university” to legally remove him or her from a free speech zone? Why do student groups need mission statements reviewed by SG before they can receive any funding?
Though our English department consists 
of many Marxists, UF embraces those who have money.
And why shouldn’t it? Sure, the system 
might be somewhat conformist, a tad inau-thentic and exclusionary to the poor. But how is that any different from the real world? It’s easy to hate on, but what, if any , evil has the system executed? In fact, it does a lot of good, benefiting children and charities.
Our world is riddled with inequalities. UF 
is no different. Greeks have developed a sys-tem that promotes their future success and fi-nancial security . And it’s not like they do evil things, nor do they support causes they don’t truly believe in. And honestly , what have the haters done?
Chip Skambis is an English and telecom-
munication junior at UF . His column regularly appears on Mondays.
Hating doesn’t take away from successes of Greek systemColumn
Every morning you wake up, rub sleep out of your 
eyes and walk over to the bus stop. You grumble about the bus being late, and you start worrying 
whether you’ll be on time.
When it arrives, you automatically flash your Gator 1 
Card as you walk up the steps and take a seat. If you arrive on time, you bless the heavens; if you arrive to class late, you blame the lousy bus system.
After classes, you head toward the bus stop and curse 
once more its lateness; you just want to get home.
You repeat this pattern every day.While many students go through this routine daily, there 
is one aspect of our predictable schedule that we ignore.
Every morning, the bus arrives and every evening we 
go home. Despite using the bus system every day, many of us forget who actually gets us to our destination.
They are the silent and present individuals who sit at 
the front.
Who is there at 7 a.m. for our 7:25 a.m. class? And who 
is there when we sleepily amble home from Library West at 1 a.m?
Who sacrifices their Friday and Saturday nights so we 
can enjoy our nights of debauchery in Midtown and down-town Gainesville?Who gives us directions 
when we’re lost? And who waits for us when we’re running toward them in the rain?
Who, despite our constant complaining, gets us to class 
without fail and is always ready to take us home?
They are our bus drivers.Currently, they are facing oppressive changes to their 
contracts from the city. These changes include cuts to their pension and continuous freeze on their wages.
However, one of the biggest challenges the drivers face 
are forced overtime hours. Due to the small pool of avail-able drivers, they are constantly forced to work beyond their normal shift.
Their overtime hours often total the ridiculous sum of 
19 hours in one day. This affects the well-being and safety of the driver and the riders.
If a driver is tired, he or she is less likely to be aware of 
his or her surroundings. This current work situation is not conducive to a safe environment.
The Amalgamated Transit Union, the drivers union, is 
working hard to combat the hazardous work environment by demanding that Regional Transit System hires more drivers and ends forced overtime.
The students need to come together and support the ef-
forts of the union.
As students, we make up 75 percent of the RTS rider -
ship, and we have the loudest voices. What is happening to the bus drivers is not fair, and we have a duty to stop it.
As students, we have a responsibility to help the indi-
viduals we depend on every day. Where would we be if the bus drivers weren’t there every morning to greet us?
Where would we be if we couldn’t get home at 1 a.m. 
after an intense study session? 
How would our Fridays and Saturdays look if we didn’t 
have a safe ride home?
Our RTS bus drivers are there for us in all aspects of our 
collegiate life. They continually help us without a word of dissent. It’s our turn to help them back.
We can no longer yell out a feeble “thank you” when 
we get off the bus and hope that brightens the driver’s day. We need to go that extra mile as they have constantly done for us.
If you want to get involved with this ongoing campaign, 
please visit the Gainesville Area Students for a Democratic Society’s Facebook page and learn how.
Michela Martinazzi is an art history sophomore at UF.Efforts of bus drivers union deserve support of studentsGuest column
Chip Skambis
opinions@alligator.org
Michela Martinazzi
Speaking OuttheAvenue    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
Fun. has an album and tour to help you rock out: 
If catchy and emotional lyrics are your style, download 
Fun.’s newest album, “Some Nights.” Check out page 10 to see if it’s right for you. Sometimes privacy is the best policy: 
Be sure to jot down the helpful list of secluded bathrooms on page 12. You never know when it could come in handy.Miss mom’s cooking? There’s an undiscovered farmers market to fill that void. Read more on page 11.
ANTHONY CARDONA
Avenue Writer
   
Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan Peele liken themselves 
to a famous duo in order to distinguish their voices from one another.
“I’m the one that sounds like Garfield, and Keegan’s the 
one that sounds like Odie,” said Peele in a phone interview.
Key, 40, and Peele, 33, debuted their new sketch show, 
“Key & Peele,” on Jan. 31 at 10:30 p.m. on Comedy Central. In the show, they write and perform sketches on topics and personalities relevant to today’s society.
The show was described in a news release: “Whether it’s 
satirizing the president, spoofing Nazis or ordering up some soul food, ‘Key & Peele’ will showcase their chemistry, ca-maraderie and unique point of view, born from their shared background and experiences growing up biracial in a not quite post-racial world.”
Satirizing the president may seem like a controversial 
topic to some, especially in the midst of national election campaign season. However, Key and Peele are not worried.
“Our general guideline is how funny is it to us,” Key said. 
“If everyone is laughing, then something comedically pre-cious is happening. Our job is to try and make everybody laugh.”
They hope college students will like the show and com-
prehend the duo’s comedic style. “It’s a challenge for us,” Key said. “Our challenge is to entertain you guys.”
“We’re not trying to be cool here,” Peele said. “We’re try-
ing to be funny.”
Key and Peele’s efforts to be funny certainly show in their 
sketches. One sketch involved President Obama (played by Peele) giving a speech to the American public regarding the election, while his “anger translator” Luther (played by Key) restates everything in a less reserved tone. Peele discussed his support of democracy in foreign countries (Luther: “Hey, all y’all dictators out there, keep messin’ around and see what happens. Just see what happens. Watch!”) and urges certain governments to discontinue nuclear weapons testing (Luther: “Please test me and see what happens!”)
“The biggest challenge [about Obama] is he’s an extreme-
ly likable guy,” Key said. “He’s so unflappable.”
“Obama couldn’t allow himself to like it too much,” Peele said. “He’d have to be extremely discreet about it.”
According Key and Peele, Luther is a successful charac-
ter because everything he says is “on the tip of everyone’s tongue.”
In another sketch, Peele’s character sees a doctor (Key) 
and claims he has leprosy in an attempt to finagle a prescrip-tion for medical marijuana..
“In California, you can go in with pretty much anything,” 
Peele said.
After living in Amsterdam for three years, he called him-
self a “huge fan.”
“The first thing to know is you can put it off for a while,” Peele said. “When you’re 20 or 21, it’s OK to start smok-ing. It’s a powerful drug that can be used for a whole lot of good.”
Key performed improv with Second City in Detroit, and 
Peele performed with Second City in Chicago. The two had simple advice for budding improv artists.
“You better love it,” Key said, laughing.“Comedy is like mixed martial arts. There are so many 
disciplines,” Peele said. “You have to devote something in-side yourself to comedy. You have to get obsessed and stay obsessed.”
“We feel like rascals being role models,” he said.
Photo courtesy of Comedy Central
Would you want to parody the president? “Key & Peele” is a new sketch comedy show that fearlessly examines today’s society.
Key, Peele write “comedy for a 21st century world”
NATALIA SIEUKARAN
Avenue Writer
NBC’s upcoming fashion TV show “Fash-
ion Star” comes this spring to compete with 
Lifetime’s fashion shows “Project Runway ,” “Project Accessory” and the recent “24 Hour Catwalk” — reminding us why we love watching designers squirm under the glares and criticisms of their idols.
NBC appears to be the rebel of mainstream 
reality shows with their recent productions be-ing the antithesis of mainstream hits. In a re-cent article, I wrote about “The Voice” in con-trast to “American Idol” and “X Factor.” This time, “Fashion Star” is the bad boy.
The trend is apparent in fashion reality 
shows as well.  Lifetime dominates the genre ever since it acquired “Project Runway” from Bravo, and it has become the mother ship of fashion reality with the recent spinoff  “Project Runway All Stars”, which gathered the best of the best from the first eight seasons, only to be stressed and criticized — all over again.  
Last fall, “Project Accessory” debuted after 
the season 9 finale of “Project Runway,” which used the fool-proof show’s formula of three powerful figures in the fashion industry with a slinky runway-model queen as the host — the difference is that instead of creating high fashion, they create fashion’s toppings: acces-sories.
So how does “Fashion Star” fair against 
Lifetime’s couture creations, which are backed up by some of the fashion industry’s most no-table figures?
Well, for one, it brings its own powerhous-
es: singer and lover of all things fashion Jes-sica Simpson, former Paris Hilton BFF turned fashionable-boho-chick Nicole Richie, and menswear designer who worked with notable lines Ralph Lauren and Calvin Klein, in addi-tion to his eponymous line, John Varvatos. 
Except, they’re not judges but are rather 
mentors to the designers. 
And of course, what’s a 
fashion show without its su-permodel host? Australian model, actress and business-woman Elle Macpherson will host the new show.
So if they are the men-
tors, who’s judging? 
The Los Angeles Times states that the judg-
es are buyers from Macy’s, Saks Fifth Avenue and H&M. 
Each week these retailers will make an on-the-spot decision to buy and carry the design-ers’ looks they like most. Immediately after the show airs, that very look will be available in the stores.
This show is a fresh take on “Project Run-
way” because this gives the designers an equal chance to have their designs hit retail directly every week, as opposed to only having one or two special challenges in the whole season. 
Entertainment Weekly got a first-hand look 
into 14 contestants. 
Let’s just say that this has got to be one of 
the most wide range group of individuals.
We cannot help but root for these designers 
— no matter what station they’re on.
“Fashion Star” will premiere March 13 at 
9:30 p.m. with a 90-minute episode. 
Each new episode will be an hour long on  
Tuesdays at 10 p.m. on NBC.
NBC’s “Fashion Star” is coming soon to a TV near youhumor   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012  ALLIGATOR,  9
  ALYSSA HOLCOMB
 Avenue Writer
 
  “Is you OK? Is you good?” 
Good, because GloZell would like to know.
  The YouTube sensation and UF 
alumna, class of 1997, is steadily creating a promising career in entertainment, mixing stand-up comedy with her online person-ality . Her outrageously hilarious videos, including her most-viewed entry , “My Push Up Bra Will Help Me Get My Man” (which has more than 17 million views), have gained continuous notoriety on the Inter-net thanks to her zeal, enthusiasm and sing-song humor.
  The comedienne, who gradu-
ated from UF with a B.F.A. in mu-sical theater, began her rise to fame after an unintentional sidetrack from her personal blog.
  “I started off with a blog, and 
then one day I was doing some videos and the blog wouldn’t up-load, so I started uploading them on YouTube only to copy and paste it onto my blog,” she said. “Then one day I looked and I’m like, ‘Oh, people are commenting on You-Tube, interesting.’ And it kept go-ing and I was like ‘Oh! YouTube is good!’”
  Three years and more than 150 
million views later, GloZell found her niche making videos of ce-lebrity impersonations, random musings on life and the occasional Internet fad. Her costumed paro-dies of Lady Gaga and Nicki Minaj earned responses from the celebri-ties themselves. GloZell received retweets from Minaj and Bruno Mars and managed to score an in-vite to Toby Keith’s concert by the artist himself.
  “What’s good about [the vid-
eos] is that the artists themselves are very kind to me. I don’t dislike them at all, and I think they’re see-ing that, that I’m just being funny . When I talk about [the artists], there’s more people that go to that video,” she said.
  More recently , her take on the 
“Cinnamon Challenge” added an-other ﬁ  ve million views to her rap-idly growing video resume, prov-ing that viral success has a price.
  “Well, I learned the hard way , 
because to this day my eyes still burn, my nose hairs are gone. I was hallucinating that day. The head-ache is still there, but hey , people enjoy watching me almost die! I haven’t even watched [the video] but looking at the comments and they’re like ‘It came through her nose!’ Well, that explains a lot. Peo-ple say ‘don’t do drugs.’ I’m gonna start campaigning ‘don’t do cinna-mon.’ This will kill you. Somebody gonna die!”
  GloZell recently added “actress” 
to her growing resume, taking part in the online Web series “Dr. Fuba-lous” alongside fellow YouTube stars Antoine Dobson and Miranda Sings, as well as actor Danny Trejo and rapper-turned-reality star Fla-vor Flav . From wigs to makeup, costumes and beyond, her musical theater training helped bring life to Ma Cakes, Dr. Fubalous’ ranch dressing-loving secretary.
  “When I went to the University 
of Florida, we had to build the sets. We had to not only sing the songs and learn the lines, sometimes we had to write the scripts. I was also in [Theatre] Strike Force. That deﬁ  -nitely helped set me off to the right start, especially musical theater. You’re doing everything. Anything I ever need to know how to do, I can do it all by myself,” she said.
  GloZell’s “bucket list” consists 
of many comedic milestones, from hosting “Saturday Night Live” to meeting fellow funny-lady Ellen DeGeneres. But the most special goal GloZell holds dear is one closer to The Swamp: performing at Gator Growl.
  “One day I want to be the comic 
to come back, so that is the dream,” she said. “In 1997, when I ﬁ  rst went, I wanted to do Gator Growl. I couldn’t even tell you what that would mean. That is beyond a tele-vision show or anything.”
  With her career taking off, the 
steady rise to success can be traced back to her Gator roots. 
These lessons are some that 
anyone can use to kick-start their own careers.
  “When [you go] off to college, 
it’s up to you to get your lessons done and be responsible. Let me tell you, you can have a whole lot of fun at UF, but the goal is to graduate and have a good time. Gators love being a Gator, and I enjoyed every single moment of it, so I’m very proud to be a graduate of UF.”
  Check out GloZell’s YouTube 
channel (youtube.com/GloZell1), Facebook and Twitter feeds for constantly updated information on stand-up dates, video uploads and more. 
 GloZell talks YouTube, Gator dreams and cinnamon battles
Photo courtesy of GloZell
GloZell certainly knows how to capture audiences on the Internet. Could 
she do the same thing at Gator Growl?
10, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
Photo courtesy of Fueled by Ramen 
Fun.’s second album, “Some Nights,” experiments with emotional new 
sounds and beats.
  ALYSSA HOLCOMB
 Avenue Writer
  Beginning with a building, qui-
et intensity infused with Queen-
esque vocals, pop-alternative act Fun.’s latest effort “Some Nights” shrouds modern mindsets with an utterly theatrical background.
  The intro, starting soft and 
growing into a cacophony of pounding piano and stressed vocals, sets a precedent for the emotional variety the album con-tains. Setting a stage ﬁ  lled with present-day vitriol (“Tea parties and Twitter/I’ve never been so bitter…”) and opening the cur-tains on a mesh of musical styles, the trio created a mashup of two worlds that form a composite of contemporary culture.
  The title track, complete with a 
capella introduction, sets the over-all anthemic tone of the album, using heavy drum beats and the soft yet biting rebel yell of singer Nate Ruess as its driving force. 
  To reinvent its usual sound on 
this second record, Fun. added hip-hop producers Jeff Bhasker (Kanye West, Drake) and Emile Haynie (Kid Cudi, The Roots) who added a technological depth to the indie-pop tunes. 
Tracks such as “One Foot” 
combine big band with simple beats, featuring member Jack An-tonoff’s repeating trumpet section and singer Nate Ruess’ vocals in a more standard, borderline rap tone, ﬁ  ercer and more biting 
than some of the other songs. Songs, like the ’80s techno-rock-infused “It Gets Better,” feature slight 
autotune and a quickened pace reminiscent of bands like Hello-goodbye.
  “We Are Young” (featuring 
Janelle Monae) is the song that re-cently sparked the Fun. fan train with radio play and a commercial feature. The combination of its ris-ing chorus and repetitive, simple drum beats and keyboard chords make it the easiest to sing along with the album.   Other rousing songs include 
the calmer “Carry On,” with lyr-ics like “May your past be the sound/Of your feet upon the ground,” as if inspiring listeners in the plights and journeys that life may take them.  
  Empathize with the depressed 
thoughts post-breakup (in the acoustic, guitar-heavy “Why Am I The One”) and to the apathy af-ter a loss (the hip-hop tinged “All Alone”). 
The latter is another case of the 
band’s ability to mask dejected feelings with a catchy tune
  With such an appealing com-
bination of musical genres, along with a lyrical repertoire of iden-tiﬁ  able sentiments for today’s youth, Fun.’s youthful feel, both in song and in spirit, marks it as a truly audience-attentive act.
  Fun. is also embarking on a 
nationwide tour. Florida dates in-clude stops in Tampa and Orlan-do on March 7 and 8, respectively . Find out more about the band and tickets to their shows by checking them out on their Facebook page or www.ournameisfun.com. 
 Find techno-theatricality on “Some Nights”
MARIA GALINDO
Avenue Contributing Writer
There is a world outside happy-hour 
specials and end-of-the-week naps on Fri-
day afternoons.
Every Friday from 3 to 6 p.m., tucked 
behind the Thornebrook Village shops, there is a quaint farmers market where you can find local, organic produce, homemade pastries, vegetarian Indian food and organic English marmalade that puts to shame anything on the shelves of big, chain grocery stores.
“I love the homey atmosphere, yum-
my , free samples and the friendly people of this farmers market,” said Genni Rubin, a UF freshman and frequent visitor of the Thornebrook Village Farmers Market.
Pete Turner, owner of Pete’s Preserves, 
a line of organic, English-style marmalade, enjoys selling at this farmers market be-cause of its intimate setting.
It takes a lot of self-control not to buy 
everything you see.
It’s not unusual for a single costumer 
to buy more than $40 worth of vegetarian Indian food from Nalini Pandey.
She owns the Green Mango, a 
Gainesville restaurant that also sells its food in local farmers markets.Turner and Pandey agree that the ap-
peal of farmers markets has to do with the quality of the food they sell. 
Pandey smiled as she spoke about her 
first experiences in the kitchen, as she was taught by her mother, father and grand-mother in India.
“I’ve been cooking since I was 10,” 
she said. “Cooking is an art. It’s not just a combination of ingredients you throw together.”
After working in genetic and microbi-
ology labs for 33 years, Turner, the Cam-bridge graduate and former UF research assistant professor decided to dedicate his time to his longtime passion: cooking.
“I’ve been making marmalade for years 
and years,” Turner said.
He holds his food to high standards. 
“The food is fresh and has never seen any pesticides or artificial fertilizers,” he said. 
“I’ve had people tell me [my marma-
lade] reminds them of something their grandmother would make.”
The Thornebrook Village Farmers Mar -
ket is in the courtyards of Thornebrook Village shopping center on 2441 NW 43rd St. every Friday from 3 to 6 p.m.
For more information about farmers 
markets around Gainesville, visit gaines-villefarmfresh.com. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012 § ALLIGATOR,  11
David Carr / Alligator
Craving homemade marmalade or freshly baked honey wheat berry bread? Look for Peter 
Turner’s stand at the Thornebrook Village Farmers Market on Friday afternoons.
Hidden farmers market sells former professor’s wares
12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
KIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer
No one likes to talk about it, but we all do 
it: poop.
This everyday (hopefully) bodily function 
is no problem when you’re at home. You feel 
the urge, so you go to the nearest bathroom and place your bottom on top of that porcelain throne. No noise, no people and all the toilet paper in the world at your disposal. You’re comfortable.
But what about those times when you’re 
on campus and nature calls? You can’t hold it for another few hours, so you run to the clos-est bathroom. You open the door slowly and check all the stalls to make sure you’re alone. Most of the time you’re not, but you don’t have enough time to find another place, so you find the cleanest stall and hope you don’t make any awkward noises. You’re uncomfortable.
Here’s a well-researched list of spots 
around campus to make sure your bathroom experience isn’t awkward. In fact, it’s to make it as pleasant as possible.
Music Building
Layout: Male and female stall bathroomsLocation: Across the street from Turlington 
Plaza on the first floor
“It’s huge, private and you get to listen 
to the string concert instruments resonating through the walls,” said Matthew Paymer, a chemical-engineering sophomore. “Super peaceful.”
Rinker Hall
Layout: Male and female stall bathroomsLocation: Next to Rawlings Hall on the 
first floorThis building is pretty vacant so there’s 
rarely anyone in the bathroom. It has a lot of stalls and seems new. It’s super convenient if you’re going to or from the bus stop.  
Shands Basement
Layout: Unisex private bathroomsLocation: Hallway in the basement of 
Shands, between the Center for Musculoskel-etal Pain Research and the Psychology Clinic
“The rooms are pretty spacious,” said Me-
gan Johnson, a nursing senior. “The toilets are located in the back corner of the room so your business can’t be heard by people passing by. They’re awesome!”
Ustler Hall
Layout: Unisex private bathroomLocation: Next to the Student Recreation & 
Fitness Center“The bathrooms are generally very clean,” 
said Taissa Morimoto, an anthropology junior. “It is a private bathroom so you can make as much noise as you want, really.”
Pugh Hall  
(the gold mine of campus bathrooms)
Layout: Male and female private bath-
rooms, stalls with a private bathroom
Location: Down the road from the Hub. 
On the top floor for private bathrooms, bottom floor for the stalls with a private area
This is my personal choice. On the top floor, 
there are male and female private bathrooms. They’re huge, very private and clean. There’s also a secret poop chamber located on the bot-tom floor in the regular stall bathrooms. It is located at the back end of the room. It’s just as nice as those on the top floor but saves the steps.Cream of the crap: the best places to drop a deuce at UFpotty talk
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
Need 4 students for 4 bedroom, 4 bath, fully 
furnished Condo $350 per month per student, includes utilities at Univ Terrace West 3800 SW 20th Ave 352-586-6468. Requires 1 year lease starting Aug 15th.   2-23-12-12-1
OPEN HOUSE
From 2-6pm  on   February 23rd
Tour our Newly Remodeled 4/4’s
*Prizes *Free Food *Music
Their going fast! 352.379.9300
4-25-12-43-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Only $1149! Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-28-12-36-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2bed/1bath Sun Key units starting at $550
2BR/1.5BA Sun Harbor units starting at
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Receive Summer discounts when you
sign a 15 month lease!!!!
Contact our office to inquire about
student specials!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2BR/1BA close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    2-29-12-35-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-2-12-29-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   3-21-12-35-22, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   2-29-11-27-2
Trend’s Student House of the Month!
2710 NW 2nd Ave
302 NW 4th Ave
Amazing 3 bedroom Historic House  
Brand New Kitchen and Hardwood Floors
Close to UF Text “Trend” to 313131 for 
More Details
Trend4Rent.com
2-24-20-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor Townhouses $525
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
1bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $475!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
2-23-12-15-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available NOW.REDUCED to $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183   2-29-12-15-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
ONE Block to UF-Available 8/1/2012-2/2.5 
bath townhouse,w,d,dishwsh, guaranteed parking, wood floors VERY cute-1017 SW 1st Avenue www.forrentgainesville.com or 514-4915. Only 3 units remain!!!    3-14-12-20-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 2-27-11-40-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
2BR2BA  Condo  in Turkey Creek
Carpet, Dishwasher, Laundry Hkups,Close to Alachua & Gainesville 11426 NW 67th Terrace  $800/Mo  
2BR 1BA Garage Apt in Duckpond Area
Wood Floors, Laundry, Central H & Air726 NE 4th Street $800 /Mo
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF, 
Carpet, Central H & Air, CarpetLaundry., Inclds Wtr and Swg. $800/MoCan reserve for Summer or Fall now.Grad II 1236 SW 4th Avenue
2BR 1BA Apt Robert Obrien Apts
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat Gas HtNear Sams Club/Walmart  $500/Mo2901 NW 14th Street
2BR 1BA House in Oaks of Kanapaha
4845 SW 57th Drive $725/MoCarpet, Central H & Air, Laundry hkupsOff Archer Rd. 
Effeciency across from UF Stadium
2 Rooms, no kitchen, just Frig and sinkshared bathroom.  Most people bring in a hotplate or microwave $295/Mo 2-24-12-9-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
$19.99 to sign and $100 credit
4/4’s starting @ $329
Text “SANTAFE” to 47464 for more!
Now Leasing for FALL!
4-25-12-43-2
4/2 apt close to campus 1740 NW 3rd PL
Early signing discount-have 4 people and sign by 2/29 monthly rent 275/room. No Pets. 1 year leases 352-231-3002 www.hodgeprop.com    2-27-12-4-2
Large Homes in NW For RENT
4-7 bdrm $1600 - $2.5K/mo (~$400/room)
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
3-13-12-10-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099       3-13-12-10-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
               ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100               ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500               ●/3 house 3514 nw 7 pl $1500               ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15003-12-12-8-2
1.5 miles to UF in NW Gville. Luxury 2bd/2ba 
condo in small community: walk-in closets, W/D, vaulted ceilings, balcony, 1410 sqft. Built 2006. $950/month. Pets OK. 359-1112 or katewallis83@yahoo.com. Avail. March 1    3-21-12-15-2.VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    3-29-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    3-29-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   3-29-12-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Lovely 3/3, individual lease @ Campus 
Lodge, females only. Two great roommates. $459/mo, first floor, next to pool, see cam-puslogdeuf.com for rent/amenity details. Email azanotelli121@aol.com   2-28-2-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
SWM looking for roommate to share 2 story 
condo. Unfurnished 250 sft bedroom/prvt bath with access to furnished kitchen/living room.Located on Tower Rd 4 blocks S of Newberry RdEmsil: eleeng075@netscape.net   2-28-12-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDWe Buy Cell Phones & other Electronics (iPads,iPods,Gaming Systems,Laptops.)Working or Not ! We Unlock & Repair PhonesTechmodo 6450 SW Archer RD(352)872-5881                 2-29-18-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I Buy Cars & Trucks
★ Call Anytime ★ 352-443-1100
3-13-12-20-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
97 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-1201 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $699902 TOYOTA CAMRY $699904 CHEVY ASTRO $6999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
04 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $799902 HONDA ODYSSEY $799901 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,99906 SATURN ION $11,99907 FORD MUSTANG $12,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12We buy unwanted vehicles with or without title any condition,make,year or model we pay up to $20,000 and offer free towing call 813-516-0847    2-28-20-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  2-24-12-8-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
We have the following
full and part time positions:●Tech Support Rep●Software Developer●Linux Administrator●Admin Asst●ACT/SAT Coordinator●Video Tech●Aviation Sales●Accounting EditorPlease complete an online application at www.gleim.com/employment.     3-2-12-15-14
Receptionist needed for professional sup-
portive office environment FT 8-5 M-F 10.00 per hour Please Email resume toCorey@mssgainesville.com    2-24-12-7-14
Sales Asst/Customer Svc Rep
Apply in person at
Tomlinson Motor Company, 3580 N Main St$10/hr, part time 15-20 hrs/wk - flexible.     2-23-12-6-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    3-1-12-10-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer day camp pro-gram. Positions in the camp are available in our Pre-Kindergarten, Kindergarten, and our elementary school age day camps offered at Oak Hall. A total of 8 FT and PT counselor positions plus 2 FT Head Counselor positions are available for the summer. Individuals for the day camp should be available to work daily from June 11-July 27. Interested ap-plicants should submit a resume to Maggie Martin via e-mail at mmartin@oakhall.org by March 16th. Interview information regarding group interview on March 17th will be sent out upon receipt.   3-16-12-15-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE 
NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. Apply in person @ 2906 NW 13Tth St. 352-372-1226 sandysre-sale.com   2-27-5-14
!!ATTN SMOKERS!! You're needed to par-
ticipate in a study conducted by the UF Smoking Lab assessing effects of exercise on cravings, withdrawal, and/or smoking. Compensation provided!! Call 336-406-3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    3-23-19-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring 
Bartenders/Deli Help. Accepting apps at both 5156 S W 34th St and 2327 N W 13th St locations. Must have reliable transporta-tion and some daytime availability.   2-28-12-5-14Wanted: Experienced Tumbling Coach
For beginner to advanced tumbling classes.front rolls to fulls. Must be able to spot high school age kids in running tumbling skills. Part time. Competitive pay. 352-222-9977   2-28-12-5-14
Piano accompanist to play song for worship 
services as well as accompanying choir. Wednesday Choir rehearsal attendance is mandatory as well as Sunday morning wor-ship. Email pastorharry@celebrationgnv.org   3-1-12-7-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    3-20-12-14-14
FIVE STAR PIZZA
looking for pizza makers exp preferred, must be able to take deliveries from time to time also must be avail to work late night and weekends. Apply in person at the 39th ave location. 4014 nw 22nd drive    2-29-12-5-14
SOLUTIONS BRIDAL DESIGNER HOUSE
Part-time Stylist Position
Call 352-367-0070 for details
E-mail resume in .pdf format to
cherish@solutionsbridal.com
2-28-7-14
ATTORNEY WITH MINIMUM TWO YEARS 
EXPERIENCE IN ESTATE PLANNING & BUSINESS LAW wanted for prestigious Sarasota law firm. Please send resume to sarasotalaw@yahoo.com    4-11-12-30-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    2-29-12-33-15
MIT Mathematics Graduate. TUTORING 
available for HIGH SCHOOL and COLLEGE STUDENTS. Taught last semester at UF. E-mail/call for REFERENCES and RATES. (352) 519-8974 and avila@alum.mit.edu   2-27-12-10-15
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    3-23-12-20-15
BUSINESS OWNERS AND MOTHERS 
Gavin Doran Photography is prepared to capture the essence of your business or family.Get a competitive advantage & create memories.Email hunter@gavindoran.com   2-28-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Special February and March Rates- $99 
Advanced Cardiac Life Support and $35 Basic Life Support(BLS)(CPR).American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.    3-20-12-18-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
VIBRAM FIVE FINGERS
Extensive selection of Vibram Five Fingers 
shoes - Many styles on sale right now. If you haven't tried them you really should! LloydClarkeSports.com. Just 1 mile north of UF on 13 St.     3-2-8-18
FLIP FLOPS GALORE
Excellent selection of flip flops - many on 
sale now - Reef, Teva, Sanuk, Roxy, Chaco,  Q.S. - Spring Break Necessity! Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.   3-2-8-18
FREE GAIT ANALYSIS
Come run on our treadmill and let us fit you 
right for your next running shoes. 36 years locally owned. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.    3-2-8-18
SHOP LOCAL & ONLINE
NEED ATHLETIC GEAR, SHOES, SANDALS & other casual wear but want parents to buy for you? Our entire store is online with local pickup available. Free shipping too! Find us on facebook. Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13th St.     3-2-8-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Transcendental Meditation Technique: A 
free Introductory Lecture, Sunday, Feb. 26, 1pm at the Hampton Inn, Arredondo Room, 101 S.E. 1st Ave, Gainesville, FL 32601. Questions: 352-338-1249 orabyxbe@tm.org, Allan Byxbe.   2-24-12-8-20
HAPPY HOUR @ CHAMPAGNE SALON
$10 Eyebrow Threading
1109 W. University Ave. 215-2873   2-24-5-
20
GOOD EARTH GUIDE DOGS-NEWBERRY
● Change a life.● Dogs available.● Interns needed.352-222-5912      3-14-10-20
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Leonard pleads not guilty
According to the Orlando Sentinel, UF tight end A.C. Leonard 
pleaded not guilty Monday to a charge of misdemeanor domestic violence through his attorney Huntley Johnson.Football spring practice open to public
Florida’s football team begins spring practice on March 14, and two days of practice on March 16 and March 17 will be open to both the public and media for the ﬁ  rst time under Will Muschamp.Freshman Andrea Vilaró Aragonés has found a spot on UF’s women’s basketball team ahead of tonight’s matchup with Mississippi State. See story, page 19.  
 Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  In his ﬁ  rst start as a Gator, sophomore Jonathon Crawford tossed ﬁ  ve scoreless innings 
while striking out four and allowing just two hits. Florida beat UCF 8-0 on Wednesday.  
  BRYAN HOLT
 Alligator Writer
   
 Jonathon Crawford made people forget 
Sunday in a hurry . 
  In his ﬁ  rst outing of the season, a loss to 
Cal State Fullerton, the sophomore right-
handed pitcher faced seven batters and al-lowed four runs on ﬁ  ve hits and a walk.
  On Tuesday night, Crawford returned 
to the mound in a starting role against UCF and showed the promise Gators coach Kevin O’Sullivan talked about during the preseason. 
  “He’s got too good of an arm, he’s too 
talented and I’ve seen it enough in practice in the fall and the spring to believe and to know it’s going to show up,” O’Sullivan said. 
  Crawford held the No. 19 Knights (3-1) 
hitless through 4.1 innings and ﬁ  nished a ﬁ  ve-inning outing in which he said “ev-erything” was working for him with four 
strikeouts, two hits and no runs, get-ting the decision in an eventual 8-0 victory for the No. 
1 Gators. Before Tuesday night’s game, Crawford had only thrown a total of four innings in his brief career as a Gator. Com-ing out of Sunday , his ERA was listed at 108.00. 
  “There were obviously probably some 
questions coming into it, but he did his job and he did what we expected him to do,” senior right ﬁ  elder Preston Tucker said.
  Offensively , runs came early and often 
for Florida (4-1), which was swept by UCF in a pair of midweek games last season. Af-ter getting a rare start in center ﬁ  eld, senior Daniel Pigott opened the gates in the ﬁ  rst inning with a 1-1 shot to left that bounced  Crawford leads Gators to win against UCF
  Kevin O’Sullivan has a slight 
problem on his hands: Florida has too many big 
bats.
  An abundance of power hit-
ters seems like a luxury any team would cherish. It’s a good issue to have, but it’s an issue nonetheless.
  The Gators can trot out any 
combination of the following: reigning Southeastern Conference Player of the Year Mike Zunino, two-way prospect Brian Johnson — both of whom are projected ﬁ  rst-rounders in June’s MLB First-Year Player Draft — Austin Mad-dox, freshman Taylor Gushue and senior Preston Tucker, who is on the precipice of breaking Florida’s all-time RBI record. 
That’s enough to make any op-
ponent tremble, just ask Cal State 
Fullerton coach  Rick Van-derhook, who  com-pared  UF’s line-up to the 
1927 New York Yankees.
  While it’s certainly not Mur-
derer’s Row, the Gators’ lineup has plenty of pop, especially when you factor in the likes of bench players Vickash Ramjit and fresh-man Justin Shafer. 
  There’s just one small prob-
lem with all these sluggers: There aren’t enough at-bats to go around because they all ﬁ  eld similar posi-tions.
  Of those seven players, Zunino, 
Gushue and Maddox can all play catcher, and two of them have al-ready done so this season, with Zunino at backstop for the week-end series and Gushue earning his  No. 1 UF
facing 
unique 
issue
  JOHN BOOTHE
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 Before he knew Will Yeguete’s left foot was 
indeed broken, Billy Donovan rattled through 
the list of backup point guards and little-used substitutes he could call on to replace Florida’s injured power forward.
  Some were undersized — even at Yeguete’s 
6-foot-7 standard — for the job. 
Scottie Wilbekin usually comes off the bench 
for other guards and is just 6-foot-2, while for-ward Casey Prather checks in an inch shorter than Yeguete. 
  Others, like redshirt freshman Cody Lar-
son, have seen limited playing time in UF’s 13 Southeastern Conference games.
  “We’re going to have to make some adjust-
ments, like Casey Prather playing the four,” Donovan said. “Scottie playing the four. Cody Larson needs to step up and provide a little bit more.”
  When the results from Yeguete’s hospital 
visit came back Tuesday night after UF’s 16-point win against Auburn, Donovan learned those players would be his last resource in the ﬁ  -nal months of the season.
  Yeguete, the Gators’ 
leader in both steals and re-bounding percentage, broke the ﬁ  fth metatarsal in his 
foot, according to a UF report, and is unlikely to return for the rest of the year. 
  “There’s going to be some things that we’re 
going to need to practice,” Donovan said. “Be-cause  it’s not like, OK, how do you get by for a week or a couple games? Now it’s like, OK we’re dealing with this for the rest of the sea-son.”
  The foot injury came just 10 days after Yeg-
uete suffered his second concussion of the sea-son in a loss to Tennessee. While Florida could not recover from his absence against the Volun-teers, the Gators were able to scratch out a road win against Alabama following three days of practice with the smaller lineup.
  Donovan’s main worry for his increasingly 
depleted bench is getting healthy before Flor-ida steps back out on the road this weekend. In his postgame press conference Tuesday , he said Wilbekin (hyperextended knee), Prather (ankle sprain) and Larson (bursa sac on knee) have all been limited in practice lately.
  “Larson was out of practice on Sunday , 
Prather missed part of shootaround, Patric [Young] was somewhat hobbled,” Donovan said. “We’ve been dealing with some issues 
Florida scrambling to ﬁ  nd Yeguete replacements  
Forward likely out for season
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 18SEE TOM, PAGE 18SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 20
Tom Green
twitter: @tomas_verde
Yeguete
UF BaseballTHE TOM GREEN 
SHOWfirst start behind the plate Tuesday.
Tucker, Maddox, Johnson and Ramjit are all 
comfortable at first base, and O’Sullivan plans 
on getting Gushue some time there, as well. Meanwhile, Tucker and Shafer have both been slotted in right field so far this season, and Mad-dox, Zunino, Gushue and Johnson have all been in the lineup as a designated hitter.
“We have depth and we’ve got some guys 
we can plug in,” O’Sullivan said during the weekend.
So the challenge for O’Sullivan as the season 
progresses is to find the right balance of at-bats for all of these hitters — and it will be no easy task, even for a coach who has rebuilt UF’s pro-gram in four-plus seasons and enjoyed unprec-edented success in Gainesville.
With seven legitimate hitters vying for four 
positions in the order on any given night, who become the odd men out?
It would be criminal to omit Zunino from the 
lineup, seeing as he is the Gators’ highest-rated draft prospect for this summer’s draft (Baseball America lists him as the No. 5 eligible player).
The same goes for Tucker, who will finish 
his career as the most prolific hitter in Florida history. Johnson only hit during one of Florida’s opening-series games so he could focus on pitching Sunday, but he shouldn’t be left out considering he hit an impressive .394 in games that he started on the mound last season.
Although it’s early in his career, Gushue’s 
hot start makes it tough to sit him. Meanwhile, Florida is better off using Maddox solely out of the bullpen with the way he has been throwing this season.
That leaves Maddox on the outside looking 
in with Shafer and Ramjit. That’s where things get tough for O’Sullivan, because bench-clear -
ing nights like Wednesday aren’t going to be the norm.
He faces the unenviable task of figuring out 
the right distribution of at-bats while trying to keep egos in check, and he needs to do it all without overthinking — or else Florida’s appar -
ent luxury will become a taxing issue.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.
here and there.”
With Yeguete out for most of the Ten-
nessee and Alabama games, Florida was 
out-rebounded by a combined margin of eight boards. Though he doesn’t lead the Gators in rebounding average on a per-game basis, Yeguete is the lone UF player to haul in a rebound on at least 20 percent of his defensive possessions, according to Kenpom.com. 
In Yeguete’s absence against Au-
burn, Florida was able to get quality minutes  from Prather, who normally grabs a defensive rebound in 7.7 percent of his possessions. Prather had two re-bounds in six minutes Tuesday and also 
scored his first field goal since Dec. 9.
“When Will was in 
the game, he helped us rebound a lot in the first half,” junior guard Kenny Boyn-ton said. 
“I’m happy for 
Casey because he’s 
been working hard in practice all season long. For him to get in and do good, I’m happy for him.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alliga-
tor.org.18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
Hoops , from page 17UF could face rebounding 
issues without Yeguete Tom , from page 17
Boynton
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 19
� UF PLAYS FINAL HOME GAME OF 
SEASON TONIGHT AT 7 AGAINST MISSISSIPPI STATE.
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Andrea Vilaró Aragonés’ big break came 
three weeks ago on the road against LSU.
Jordan Jones was ruled out with a concus-
sion, and Florida needed a guard to step up 
and offset the loss of its second-leading scor -
er.
Coach Amanda Butler turned to Vilaró 
Aragonés, who did not disappoint.
She scored five points and recorded career-
high numbers in minutes (24) and steals (four), helping the Gators defeat the Tigers 73-64 on Feb. 2.
“For the players that were on the bench, it 
was a really good opportunity to play a good game and help the team,” Vilaró Aragonés said. “My good feelings started in that game.”
Vilaró Aragonés has had a breakout month 
and hopes to continue her February success tonight against Mississippi State at 7 in the O’Connell Center.
Going into the road matchup against LSU, 
Vilaró Aragonés had averaged just 7.4 min-utes per contest against Florida’s first eight Southeastern Conference opponents.
With the exception of a two-minute outing 
in a 62-58 loss to South Carolina Feb. 12, Vilaró Aragonés has logged 16.2 minutes per game this month.
As Vilaró Aragonés’ minutes have in-
creased, so has her production.
The Spanish guard has more than doubled 
her season average of 2.5 points per game, scoring 5.2 per contest in February.
Both Vilaró Aragonés and Butler credit the 
freshman’s increased minutes and production  to her one-on-one work with assistant coach David Lowery.
According to Lowery, he spends anywhere 
from an hour to an hour-and-a-half with Vilaró Aragonés each week, normally consist-ing of 30-minute workouts on Tuesdays and Fridays.
Lowery has helped her adjust from the 
European brand of the basketball to the style played in the United States, including an em-phasis on more aggressive offensive play and “finishing strong in the paint,” Lowery said.
“One of the things you will notice when 
you watch her is how she shoots in transi-tion; she’s kinda like that olé type of layup,” he said. 
“In America, you’ve got to go up strong, 
otherwise that’s going to get blocked.”
In the meantime, Vilaró 
Aragonés has relied on her jump shot for points; 39 of her 62 field-goal attempts this season have come from beyond the arc.
She has scored 18 points 
in the Gators’ last two games, boosted by a 4-of-11 effort from 3-point range.
“One thing I told her on Sunday (after the 
Georgia game) is, ‘You’re on people’s scouting reports now,’” Lowery said. “That’s a good thing.”
Lowery said UF needs a boost from bench 
players like Vilaró Aragonés to clinch a spot in the NCAA Tournament, and he said he be-lieves she could become just as important to Florida as Jones one day.
“There is no ceiling right now,” Lowery 
said. “I hope there’s no ceiling and she just keeps getting better and better and just re-ally makes herself an all-around ballplayer for us.”
Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@alligator.
org.Aragonés finds niche in February
ELI MARGER
Alligator Writer
 
Allie Will is no stranger to success. It’s 
been a way of life for her.
In three years at Florida, she has lost 
just three times in singles dual match play . 
She has won awards ranging from team MVP to Southeastern Conference Player of the Year. Last week, when the Intercol-legiate Tennis Association released their updated rankings, Will earned a new dis-tinction.
She is now the top-ranked singles 
player in the country.
“It’s something I’m definitely proud 
of, but I’m just looking to get better and play my best tennis in May ,” she said. “It’s great, but it doesn’t mean that much.”
For Will, trying to get better is some-
thing that has been ongoing. She came into college as the No. 3 recruit in the country after a stellar youth tennis career. As a freshman, she was All-SEC, All-American and team MVP . Last year, she helped the Gators win a national championship. 
In other words, getting better isn’t easy . 
Coach Roland Thornqvist, who recruited Will and has coached her throughout her tenure at Florida, believes the key is to not get caught up in the rankings. 
“If you start looking at the numbers, 
it can really get your head spinning and make you lose focus on the things that can actually have a hand in the outcome,” he said. “She’s level-headed enough to be proud that she’s ranked No. 1, but not overwhelmed by it.”Playing at the No. 1 and No. 2 spot in 
Florida’s singles rotation her entire career, Will has faced the best of the best. She has just 10 losses overall, and only two of them have come to players outside the national top 50. Against players in the top 10, Will is 6-3. 
The last player to defeat Will, Stan-
ford’s Nicole Gibbs, was also her oppo-nent in the Feb. 12 dual match at Stanford. Will won, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4. 
With fewer than two months to go until 
postseason play, and with plenty of chal-lenging matches before, Will still doesn’t feel like she’s playing her best. Mentally, however, she feels as strong as ever.
“Normally , you’re never really going 
to play your best tennis.  It’s more about dealing with what you face that day,” she said. “I feel like maybe I’m doing that the best I have in college tennis.”
As the top-ranked player on the de-
fending national champions, the adver -
sity that Will faces comes from high ex-pectations and top-notch competition. Undefeated in singles play this year, she has handled that adversity quite well.
“I’m definitely not playing my best 
tennis,” Will said. “Mentally, I’m matur -
ing a little bit more, which is why I’ve been successful.”Will undeterred by No. 1 
ranking, seeks improvementwomen’s BasketBall
aragones
“If you start looking at the 
numbers, it can really get your 
head spinning...”
Roland Thornqvist
UF women’s tennis coachout of the vastly vacant student-
section bleachers. 
The Gators would go on to 
score five runs in the first three innings, highlighted by a three-run third in which Casey Tur -
geon rounded out the scoring with an RBI single to right. The freshman second baseman has now hit in each of the five col-lege games he has played and said there are no nerves.
“It’s a ball and a bat, man,” he 
said. “I’m having fun up there. That’s what it’s all about.”
Florida’s second and final 
home run of the night was a historic one. Tucker stepped in to lead off the fifth and lined a first-pitch fastball to right that was barely high enough to be his third homer of the year. It gave Tucker career RBI No. 214, tying the school record held by Brad Wilkerson. 
“I barreled it up and hit it as 
hard as I could,” Tucker said. “I don’t know where it went, maybe I’ll go look for it later.”
With Pigott and Tucker’s 
home runs, the Gators have now hit seven long balls on the season, all of them solo shots. Florida’s offensive prowess Tuesday came despite strand-ing 13 runners on base, includ-ing three straight innings of leaving the bases loaded. 
After Crawford’s stellar 
starting debut, relievers Dan-iel Gibson, Bobby Poyner and Ryan Harris combined to close Florida’s first shutout of UCF since 1977. Gibson was espe-cially impressive, pitching two innings of one-hit ball.
“They battled and they’ll 
get better as they go along,” O’Sullivan said of his less-her -
alded relievers.20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2012
baseball,
from page 17Tucker ties UF recordsOFTball
JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
 
For several Gators, Thursday 
will be a homecoming.
Freshman Katie Medina, sopho-
more Cheyenne Coyle and juniors 
Brittany Schutte and Ensley Gam-mel all hail from California, the lo-cation of the annual Cathedral City Classic in Palm Springs. 
Every one of the Golden State 
natives lived within several hours of the stadium, so this tournament will be their families’ best chance to catch the No. 1 Florida squad in ac-tion. Even freshman Lauren Haeger, who is from Peoria, Ariz., will have an opportunity to see her family in the stands. 
But she, and the rest of her team-
mates, are most excited to play ranked teams for the first time this season.
“I have a lot of confidence in our 
team for next week,” Haeger said. “I see a lot of things getting better, meshing better, communication is better. And that’s what it takes to play against those teams like that and compete against them.”
Florida will head west the only 
time this regular season to face three Top-25 opponents in No. 16 Texas A&M, No. 8 Texas and No. 5 Washington. Coach Tim Walton’s squad will also play BYU and Boise State for the first time in UF softball history.
However,  
Walton doesn’t look to change his gameplan. He says he will stick with what got his team off to a 9-0 start.
“I don’t think 
we do anything 
different when we’re playing teams that have a number in front of their names,” Walton said. “I look at the teams in Boise State and BYU, the teams that aren’t ranked. BYU has been to the Super Regionals and Boi-se State has had some close games this season already . No matter who we play, I don’t think you’re going to see us do anything different.”
Walton has his players singing 
the same tune as well. Both fresh-man Sami Fagan and senior Mi-chelle Moultrie emphasized after their game on Sunday that they will continue what they have been do-ing. 
What the Gators have been doing 
has worked, as they are No. 1 in the nation and undefeated nine games into the season. However, those nine victories have come against teams with a combined record of 23-37. Now, Florida will leave Gainesville in a cross-country trip to play teams with a combined record of 40-8.
Schutte, who will be making her 
third trip back to her home state in a Gator uniform, isn’t concerned with a team’s record. Instead, the Nation-al Fastpitch Coaches Association Di-vision I National Player of the Week is just looking to tack on five more W’s in the win column.
“Whoever is on the other side 
doesn’t really matter,” Schutte said. “Just play ball.”
Gators face tough test in tournament
schutte
