VOLUME 106 ISSUE 88 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
City Commission candidates face off for last time
The final debate was held at Santa Fe College, pg 5.  
Dean of journalism college to step down
He will return to faculty duties in 2013, pg 8. 
Erving Walk -
er’s 10 points 
and nine assists 
helped lead UF to 
a comeback win 
against Ole Miss 
on Thursday. See 
story, page 14.
USDA official talks locally grown food
Deputy Secretary Kathleen Merrigan touted the 
“Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food” program, pg. 3. 
76/45
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6
CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  13
SPORTS 14Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Rudy Giuliani speaks at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Thursday evening. The Ac-
cent Speakers’ Bureau event was free and open to the public.
EMILY MILLER
Alligator Contributing Writer
As former New York City Mayor 
Rudy Giuliani began his Thursday pre-
sentation on leadership, one audience member wanted to change the subject.
“What happened with building 
seven, Rudolph?” a man from the audi-ence at the Phillips Center for the Per -
forming Arts shouted.
“You are too rude to be entitled to 
an answer,” Giuliani said as the audi-ence member was escorted out. “May I suggest a barber and a haircut?”
He responded with similar humor 
when a second audience member began shouting about the need for honesty.
“Oh, get lost,” Giuliani said. “It 
seems like I’m in New York. This could be Times Square. Any more clowns?”
Once the audience settled, Giuliani 
illustrated his six principles of leader -
ship: strong beliefs, optimism, courage, relentless preparation, teamwork and communication.
Before the talk, mobs of people 
packed themselves outside the entranc-es to the orchestra section of the Phillips Center as officials conducted a routine security sweep, delaying the event.
Those already inside were asked to 
leave and wait in the lobby.
The doors opened at 7:25 p.m. and 
eager audience members pushed into the theater to hear the former New York City mayor speak. Giuliani took the stage at about 8:15 p.m.
“It seems that security sweeps could 
be done before everyone started lining up,” Gainesville resident Kelley Rich-ardson said. “With that being said, I’d rather wait and see Rudy. I’m not going anywhere.”
Accent Speakers’ Bureau paid the 
Washington Speakers Bureau $65,000 for the event, Accent Chairman Corey Portnoy said. 
The event was free and open to the Rudy Giuliani discusses 
principles of leadership  
� ABOUT 200 STUDENTS FROM 
ACROSS THE STATE ATTENDED.
ERIN JESTER 
Alligator Staff Writer
TALLAHASSEE – About 200 university 
students from around the state gathered on 
the steps of the Historic Capitol Museum on Thursday for the Florida Student Asso-ciation’s annual Rally in Tally . 
FSA chairman Michael Long, a New 
College of Florida sophomore, voiced the concerns of the 300,000 students he repre-sents, including tuition increases and the method of student governor appointment to the Board of Governors.
In the last four years, Long said, tuition has increased by 60 percent while state ap-propriations for higher education fell by 24 percent.
Another concern for students was 
changes to Bright Futures.
The House introduced a proposal Tues-
day that would change requirements to renew Bright Futures. The GPA required for renewal of the highest award would 
increase by .25 next school year, from 3.00 
to 3.25. The requirement for the second-highest award would increase by the same amount, from 2.75 to 3.00. The bill also shortens the amount of time students have to start receiving Bright Futures funds, shortening the window from three years after graduation to two.
“As students, we’re not naive,” he said. Tuition, fair representation
top student agenda in capitolACCENT
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Staff Writer
Incoming freshmen may no longer be 
able to apply AP or IB coursework toward 
all their general education requirements, UF President Bernie Machen announced at the Faculty Senate meeting Thursday.
Machen said he is pushing Florida legis-
lators to pass a law that would allow state universities to require nine to 10 hours of general education coursework to be taken on campus.
Department curriculum has become in-
creasingly specialized, and students need to be exposed to more diverse coursework that emphasizes critical thinking and the humani-
ties — integral parts of a college education, 
he said.
If implemented, the new requirement 
would not apply to transfer students. 
Machen also told faculty to expect addi-
tional budget cuts next year for the fifth time in six years.
Initial figures indicate UF’s budget will 
see a 12.5-percent cut. Machen said this per -
centage could change over the course of the legislative session.
The majority of the meeting was dedi-
cated to discussing UF’s proposed employee health insurance plan.
UF is seeking legislative approval to self-
insure its employees, opting out of the state health care system.
Under the new program, employees 
would be encouraged to use UF&Shands physi-cians but allowed to use outside doctors as well, said Dr. David Guzick, UF’s senior vice president of health affairs, who pre-sented the change.
Many of the plan’s spe-
cific details have not been 
determined yet, Guzick said, which prompt-ed some concern among faculty senators.
Charles Guy, an environmental horticul-
ture professor, presented a list of about 15 questions the plan leaves unanswered.
“Before [the plan] is passed by the legis-
lature, we need to know the details,” he said. “You need to get the information to us before 
there’s no going back.”Gen Ed coursework could changeSEE GIULIANI, p AGE 4
SEE RALLY, p AGE 4Machen
“Oh, get lost. It seems like 
I’m in New York. This could 
be Times Square. Any more 
clowns?”
Rudy Giuliani
former New York City MayorNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 88 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tom Green, Phil Kegler, Greg Luca,   
  Corey McCall, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Calli Breil, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward, 
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett, 
  David Williams, Nika Zecevic, 
  Chloe Finch
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
76/56SUNNY
70/44PARTLY
CLOUDY
72/39SUNNY
75/44RAIN
76/45
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
The Marvin Harris 2012 Lecture
Today, 4 p.m.
Turlington, Room L011The lecture, entitled “The 
Juridical Hospital: Claiming 
the Right to Health in Brazilian 
Courts,” is organized by the anthropology department in collaboration with the Center 
for Latin American Studies. 
Featured speaker will be João 
Biehl of Princeton University, professor of anthropology and co-director of the Program 
in Global Health and Health 
Policy.
Critical Mass Leisurely Bike 
Ride
Today, 5 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasPut the fun between your legs. Join in an International Monthly Celebration of the Bicycle. The bike ride will take place the last Friday of every month. Meet on the plaza at 5 p.m. for the ride that will be-gin at 5:30 p.m.
Oneg with Scott Fried
Today, 7:30 p.m.UF Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.Join UF Hillel for reform, 
conservative or traditional 
Shabbat services, followed by a 
free Kosher dinner. Following Shabbat there will be a free Oneg with Scott Fried, inter -
national public speaker, HIV/The trip will consist of build-
ing a house for a family with HIV/AIDS with time to scuba dive in what is considered to 
be the world’s second-best 
diving location. All students who go on this trip with us will have an opportunity to get certified before the trip. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.
org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-
missions after 
CORReCtiOn
An article in Thursday’s Alligator incorrectly stated Craig Adams, an aggravated assault suspect, is a Vietnam 
veteran.AIDS educator and author.
Endangered Species TCBY 
Fundraiser
Today, 9 p.m. to 10 p.m.TCBY at Southwest 34th Street and Archer RoadCome out for ice cream to help raise funds for Single Vision, a nonprofit endan-gered species educational 
facility located just east of 
Gainesville. Come learn about the organization’s animal rescues and ambas-
sadors. 
Theatre Strike Force @ 
GatorNights
Today, 9 p.m.Orange & BrewCome for the smiling faces; 
stay for the improv comedy. 
It’ll be a show of laughter to warm you on these long, January nights. 
Havdallah and Honduras 
Service Trip
Saturday, 6:30 p.m.
UF Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.Find out how to get on a ser -
vice trip to Honduras this summer with UF Hillel and Scott Fried, international public speaker and HIV/AIDS educator and author. TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
 FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
� ABOUT 200 ATTENDED.
ALLI LANGLEY
Alligator Writer
Kathleen Merrigan thinks ev-
ery family needs a farmer.
Merrigan, the deputy secretary 
of the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture, wants people to understand 
the importance of knowing where 
their food comes from.
“Know Your Farmer, Know 
Your Food” is the USDA’s effort to encourage direct farmer-to-con-sumer connections and strengthen access to locally produced foods.
Merrigan, the USDA’s second-
in-command, was named one of 
the 100 most influential people 
by Time Magazine in 2010 for her work in agricultural policy. She presented the initiative on cam-pus Thursday night. 
About 200 people attended the 
event at the UF/IFAS Straughn Extension Professional Develop-ment Center.
Merrigan said interest in sus-
tainable agriculture and demand for local food is strong and grow-ing.
“Local’s hot, if you will,” Mer -
rigan said. “People want to know 
where their food comes from.”
When farmers sell directly to 
consumers, they receive a much 
higher return, she said, and money spent at local businesses strength-ens local economies by recirculat-ing within the community.
Local food systems are more 
environmentally, economically 
and socially sustainable, said Xin 
Zhao, a UF assistant professor who teaches courses in organic and sustainable crop production. 
A food system includes ev-
erything involved in getting food from the farm to the table, she said. 
Merrigan said she hopes any 
audience members who were in-terested in an agricultural career are now set on it and that people understand the USDA is respon-sive to the growing interest in lo-cal and regional agriculture.
Tarik Eluri, a 22-year-old hor -
ticultural science senior, said he is interested in local food produc-
tion because it supports environ-
mental sustainability and local economies. He said he is happy to know the USDA backs it.
“It’s good to see that that’s go-
ing from the top down,” he said.
The USDA is a mysterious and 
sometimes controversial branch, said 19-year-old plant pathol-ogy sophomore Kellee Britt, who hopes to intern and eventually work there.
“If more presentations like these were available,” she said, “we’d understand more about our economy, agriculture and the food that’s circulated all over the 
U.S. and the world.”
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
U.S. Department of Agriculture Deputy Secretary Kathleen Merrigan speaks about agriculture and its 
importance in the U.S. at the Straughn Extension Professional Development Center on Thursday night.
USDA official talks 
locally grown food
KELSEY GRENTZER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Citrus bacteria may be hurting Florida’s job 
base.
A study published by UF this month found 
that a bacterial disease that kills Florida citrus 
trees has cost the state economy about $3.6 bil-
lion in the past six years.
The study , conducted by researchers within 
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sci-ences, found that the reduction of orange juice production due to the disease also cost the 
state 6,600 jobs.
This is the first time the bacteria’s impact 
on Florida’s economy has been studied, al-though the disease has been around Florida for six years, said Tom Spreen, a UF food and resource economics professor.
The study compared actual harvests of 
juice-producing oranges with projected har -
vests that could have taken place if greening had not affected Florida cit-rus groves, he said.
The research was funded 
by Florida Citrus Mutual, an organization that supports the state’s citrus growers.  
Alan Hodges, an extension scientist with the food and resource economics depart-ment, said the disease af-
fects everyone in the state because of the lost income.
He hopes the study will enlighten state 
legislators when they determine funding for research.
“In China and in Brazil, where they also 
have this disease, it has completely wiped out 
citrus production in some areas,” he said.
Spreen said he believes there is potential to 
find an effective solution. 
“It would be hard to imagine Florida with-
out orange juice,” he said.Study: Citrus bacteria has cost Florida economy billions
Spreen
4, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
Joey Flechas / Alligator
Florida Student Association chairman Michael Long, of New College of Florida, speaks to a 
crowd of students at the annual Rally in Tally. 
Student association supports 
changes to Bright Futures
“We know we’re in a recession. We 
know times are tough.”
However, he said, the state needs to 
continue to make investment in its stu-
dents.
Long said if tuition must be increased, 
it should be increased gradually. He sug-
gested state appropriations for higher education be maintained, not reduced. 
FSA members had planned to attend 
the Senate’s budget subcommittee on higher education appropriations, but the meeting was canceled at the last minute.
Rather than sit in on other committee 
meetings following the rally, Long said he spoke with some of the representa-tives who support FSA’s platforms.
“I think they’re starting to [listen],” 
Long said. “I think the legislature is more of a complex, living organism than any-thing else.”
Student Government external affairs 
Director Billy Vranish came to Tallahas-see with a group of 13 UF students.
Vranish said tuition increases 
shouldn’t just cover budget shortfalls, but also manifest in improvements for students.
“If tuition goes up, we better see re-
sults,” he said.
After the rally , the UF group met with 
four representatives to discuss tuition increases and Bright Futures require-ments. 
Of the three rallies Vranish has has 
attended, he said, “This has been one of the most productive I’ve been on.”
Richard Yost, UF chemistry professor 
and Board of Governors faculty member, said he supports FSA’s stance on tuition increases and on State University Sys-tem student body presidents electing the Board of Governors’ student governor.
If the legislature took that power 
away, Yost said, they could do the same for the process in which the  faculty rep-
resentative is chosen.
“I think it’s really a matter of prin-
ciple,” he said.
UF political science senior Cassia La-
ham, 22, went to Tallahassee with the 
Florida Alliance for Student Action.
She said she was upset the rally 
wasn’t as intense as it could’ve been. “I drove two hours for a rally and all I got was a press conference,” she said.RALLY , from page 1Former New York City mayor touts all GOP candidates but Paul
public.
The former mayor and 2008 Republican 
presidential candidate offered his six prin-
ciples of leadership to an audience of about 1,500.
Giuliani had the audience laughing throughout the speech, although he also mentioned the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks five times.
Once Giuliani finished his speech, Port-
noy asked seven previously screened ques-tions from audience members.
Portnoy asked Giuliani’s opinion on 
which GOP candidate is the best choice to take on President Barack Obama in the 2012 election.
“Take on President Obama? That’s not 
much of a task,” he said. “I think every one of 
the candidates running, with one exception, 
is ready for the task ... that one exception is Ron Paul.”
Political science junior Marco Garcia, 21, said he thought Giuliani had a valuable mes-sage and delivered it well. He described Giu-liani as “a true American hero.”
Garcia was not a fan of the protesters, 
however.
“Regardless of party differences, whether 
you agree with the speaker or not, I think it is disrespectful.”GIULIANI , from page 1TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested Wednesday night 
after police said he peeped through the window of a 
woman’s apartment.
Francisco Botello, 37, of 112 Castle Drive, crouched 
down and peered into a woman’s window at  Canopy Apartments. Two of the woman’s neighbors saw him and immediately called Gainesville Police. Botello was charged with loitering and prowling.
He was charged with the same crime in 2008, ac-
cording to the Alachua County Clerk of Court.
Officer Christopher King was in the apartment com-
plex when he saw Botello walking out wearing a polo shirt and baseball cap. When King confronted Botello, the suspect said he was looking for his friend John, ac-cording to an arrest report.
Botello then grabbed his cellphone, trying to show 
the officer that he called John five hours earlier. He later told King he was looking for
John but didn’t know which apartment he lived in.Eventually, Botello said John lived in Micanopy. 
When the officer told Botello he was at the Canopy Apartments in Gainesville, Botello said he got the two places mixed up. According to the report, King could not locate a phone number for John in Botello’s phone.Man charged with 
loitering, prowlingcRIme
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Local law enforcement officials met with sorority mem-
bers Thursday night to talk about a recent string of crimes 
in the area.
During a town hall meeting hosted by the Gainesville Po-
lice Advisory Council, multiple house mothers asked for an 
expansion to the UF Alert System. Right now, messages are 
sent to students and faculty strictly from UPD.
When a crime is reported, a GPD shift commander sends 
information to the department’s communications center, which pushes the message to the proper people. In a new system, the information would also be sent to UPD if the crime is near campus, said Lynne Benck, commander of the GPD investigations bureau.The meeting was held in the wake of a string of crimes 
near Sorority Row. A woman avoided a rape attempt on Southwest Fifth Avenue by faking an asthma attack on Dec. 9, and on Jan. 13, a woman was robbed at gunpoint on Southwest Ninth Street.
Police gave basic advice and handed out a packet out-
lining where eight rapes or attempted rapes happened near campus since April.
Speakers told students not to walk alone, jog at night or 
go to isolated parts of town. Benck urged students to stay in 
groups at the bar. Alcohol-facilitated sexual battery happens 
too often, she said.
“I can’t tell you how many times I’ve read the reports and 
felt so bad,” she said. “We’re calling in college-aged guys to take polygraph tests, and the girls just can’t remember what happened. It’s just bad all around.”Police talk safety with sorority women
JAMIE MANVILLE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Trash cans on the Plaza of the Amer -
icas are no longer filled with plates and 
cups from Krishna Lunch.
The 40-year-old lunch program 
now offers reusable plates, silverware 
and cups in an effort to reduce waste 
from the 800 people who eat there ev-ery day.
“I think what we’re saving in trash 
is close to the actual size of the Krishna House,” said Krishna volunteer Olivia Martin, 22.
The Krishnas introduced the new stainless-steel plates in December, and the feedback has been positive.  A poll on their website shows 84 percent of about 100 respondents like the idea 
and will use the new plates. 
“People eat so much Krishna Lunch 
that by the time you get your seconds 
and your thirds and your fourths, your plate’s falling apart,” Martin said. “So people think they’re nice.”
Carl Woodham, chaplain of Gaines-
ville’s Krishna House, said the stainless steel plates are common in India but 
couldn’t be located in America.
The Krishnas had to order plates 
from India, Woodham said. They ar -
rived five months later.
He said the cost of switching to 
reusable plates, including installing a 
commercial dishwasher at the Krish-na House, was about $10,000, which primarily came from profits from the 
lunch sales. 
Krishna Lunch has made a three-
year commitment to using the plates.Reusable plates reduce Krishna Lunch waste
“I think what we’re saving 
in trash is close to the actual 
size of the Krishna House.” 
Olivia Martin
Krishna volunteer FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
Inflatable Fun
Harris Pickholtz, a 20-year-old telecommunication management senior, jousts 
Marley Jackman, a 21-year-old advertising junior, off her stand inside the inflat -
able ring on the Reitz Union North Lawn on Thursday afternoon. The event was organized by Catholic Gators as part of Catholic Awareness Week.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
City Commission at-large 1 candidate 
Nathan Skop stood up, placed his right 
hand on his hip and told his fellow candi-dates he was an “energy policy expert.”
Six of the seven other at-large 1 and Dis-
trict 1 candidates who were sitting on the panel sat back and scoffed.
“There are many experts on many 
things,” Donna Lutz, another City Com-mission at-large 1 candidate said, as she leaned forward and turned her head to-ward Skop. “People here are saying they know everything, but they don’t. No one does.”
Tensions ran high Thursday afternoon 
as candidates discussed their final thoughts on the city’s biomass contract, fiscal condi-tion and job creation at a debate at Santa Fe College. The debate was the the last Gainesville City Commission candidate fo-rum before election day Tuesday.
Santa Fe College Student Government 
and the SFC Office of Civic Engagement 
& Service hosted the event. Six of the eight 
at-large 1 candidates attended. James Ingle and Richard Selwach did not attend. All District 1 candidates attended except Ray Washington, who sent a representative in his place. 
Candidates were allowed 30 seconds to 
combat each other’s answers.
The first 45 minutes of the two-hour 
debate were spent talking about the city’s biomass contract, a plan to get energy from a wood-burning power plant.
Skop reiterated his disapproval for the 
city’s “disastrous” biomass contract, citing the fact that it would cost the city $3.1 bil-lion and cause utility rates to skyrocket. 
Lutz rolled her eyes. At-large 1 candi-
dates Lauren Poe and Darlene Pifalo and 
District 1 candidate Yvonne Hinson-Rawls 
smirked and sat back in their chairs.
Poe said abandoning the project would 
cost the city about $150 million. Backing out of the contract would also look bad to those looking to bring business to the city.
“Who is going to want to do business 
with a city that breaks its contracts?” Poe 
asked. 
Everyone remained calm when the 
candidates were asked about the city’s fis-
cal policy . Every candidate agreed money wasn’t being allocated properly.
District 1 candidate Armando Grundy 
said more money should be put toward re-surfacing Gainesville’s aging roads and wa-ter systems, especially in East Gainesville.
But when the issue of job creation arose, 
the snarling began again. 
Poe said the city’s innovation initiatives 
will be key to job creation. Skop and Cain were quick to counter. 
“I hear all of this Innovation Hub, In-
novation Hub talk and absolutely no talk about Plan East Gainesville,” at-large 1 candidate Dejeon Cain shouted while he waved his hands over his head. “Once again, you’re completely forgetting about East Gainesville.”  
Poe then corrected Cain.Innovation Hub is a building, he said. 
Innovation Gainesville, to which Poe was 
referring, is an idea that encompasses the 
whole city, including East Gainesville.
Cain, brow furrowed, shook his head 
and laughed. 
The last 10 minutes of the debate were 
allotted for candidates to ask questions of one another. 
Most of the questions were directed at 
Poe, because he supported the biomass contract when he was a city commissioner.
“The bottom line,” Poe said, “is that any 
other alternative to the contract would be a disaster for this city.”
At the end of the debate, each candidate 
expressed how great it was that Santa Fe 
College hosted a debate. 
“Though this was great,” V enzke said, 
“it was too short a time to get to the bottom 
of all of these deep issues.”
Read the entire story at alligator.org.Candidates face off at debateReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialFRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Do you believe that Newt Gingrich 
could lead us to colonize the moon?
51 TOTAL VOTES33% YES
67% NOThursday’s question: Are you going to the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire?We hope everyone has had a great week. We have a lot 
to cover today, so without further ado, it’s time for our 
does-anyone-even-read-this-introductory-part-anyway 
edition of...
Darts & Laurels
First, we have to throw a to-infinity-and-beyond DART  
to Newt Gingrich who recently said his big goal as presi-
dent would be to colonize the moon. Apparently, America needs to stop spending money on wasteful programs and 
focus on real important things ... like colonizing the moon. 
Next up, we give an A-for-effort LAUREL to Michael 
Fuller, a 53-year-old man who tried to purchase nearly 
$500 worth of items at a North Carolina Walmart with a 
$1 million bill. 
It’s surprising that he’s only being charged with at-
tempting to obtain property by false pretense and not for being under the influence. 
And for a wonderful display of dumb, we toss a why-
don’t-you-try-knocking-next-time-you-idiot DART to the 
DeKalb County, Ga. police officer who shot and killed a family’s dog while responding to a possible armed domes-
tic dispute call. When he entered the home, he was met by 
a German shepherd that was chained in the garage. The officer said when the dog lunged at him, he shot it. 
Turns out the officer went to the wrong house. But hey, 
at least the officer isn’t facing disciplinary action. Good 
call, DeKalb County police. 
For standing up to the Man, we give a relief-MacGyver-
style LAUREL to a 12-year-old boy from Houston who, 
after being denied permission to leave class to use the re-stroom, used a water bottle as a makeshift toilet to relieve 
his bladder. To be fair, not allowing people to go to the restroom should be a form of torture. 
For being a complete moron, we throw a so-about-
those-parking-tickets DART to a Kissimmee parking en-
forcement agent who was giving incorrectly dated tickets to drivers for parking on blocks without parking restriction signs. 
The agent has also been ticketing cars in privately 
owned parking lots that are out of the city’s jurisdiction. One city resident summed up the agent’s antics, saying, “She obviously doesn’t know her numbers, doesn’t know math or anything.” 
Finally, we award a going-where-it-matters LAUREL to 
the students from UF and other schools around the state who went to the capitol in Tallahassee yesterday for Rally in Tally. 
While we won’t comment specifically on their demands 
yet, we support the fact that they are going to Tallahassee to let their voices be heard. It’s a lot more effective than yelling and screaming around Turlington Plaza about poli-cies that can only be changed by the state legislature. 
Have a fun and safe weekend, and be sure to check back 
next week.Military empire undermines America
From outspending the rest of the countries of the world combined with having nearly 1,000 overseas military bases, it is unmistakable that the United States has a 
military empire. This empire spans the planet, maintained by the most capable, conventional forces in history with the most sophisticated destructive technology. 
This military is run by an incapable government, com-
prised of chickenhawk politicians who nonchalantly vote to send our troops to danger largely without any military experience themselves. The increase in militarism neces-sitates a growth in the state at the expense of our freedoms with our foreign policy quickening our day of reckoning. 
Some will not characterize the U.S. as an empire but as 
a superpower because they’ll say we spread good to the world and extend justice, egalitarianism, freedom or some other ideal that gives us fuzzy feelings. They’ll also say the 
very word “empire” evokes a sinister connotation, despite 
the fact that it is an appropriate description. 
We don’t spread good when we topple regimes and in-
stall governments favorable to the West. We don’t spread good when we torture and indefinitely detain people, in-
cluding our own citizens. We don’t spread good when we 
start preventative wars shrouded in lies, deceit and war propaganda such as in Iraq (Iran may be next). The harsh reality is that we are an empire.
As a consequence of our military empire, the very idea 
of patriotism has been grossly changed. A patriot used to be a person who unequivocally stood up to the govern-ment over principle. Patriots were the people who threw tea off ships in Boston and fired shots at Lexington and 
Concord. 
Patriotism is a different concept today. If someone called 
for cuts in the defense budget to begin to solve the deficit 
problem, that move would be branded as unpatriotic, lead-
ing to doom, gloom and China taking over the world. 
Today, the patriot has morphed into someone who ad-
vocates the perpetual intervention to “liberate other na-tions” and “defend our country,” 
even though these adventures are not in our direct national se-
curity interests; think Libya, Iraq 
and Afghanistan. We have been brainwashed into thinking that maintaining a military empire is 
patriotic. 
For the military to grow, the 
government must also grow. The government requires 
more tax money to finance greater warfare and militarism, limiting economic freedom. It also mandates more surveil-
lance and security, leading to things like an anti-American 
Patriot Act and regular TSA gropings, both of which un-dermine personal liberty. The military empire has started to crowd out even the Constitution. 
These wars are unconstitutional because there are no 
declarations of war. Wars should be declared, and enemies should be swiftly defeated. The U.S. has been in Afghani-stan for more than a decade now, yet there has been no war declaration. Instead, we are supposedly nation-building, 
another power not expressly given to the federal govern-
ment under the Constitution.
There is an alternate vision for America’s role in the 
world, in which the police badge is given up but Ameri-
can military supremacy is not relinquished. We should 
decommission many military bases, especially in areas that aren’t contentious, like Germany. We should stop the endless intervention and embrace self-determination and diplomacy. We should trim the defense budget to help the 
country’s finances. 
We should stop the war profiteering and propaganda. 
We should recognize the ramifications of war and consider 
the lives and families of those affected by it. We have an 
obligation to fight to restore the republic. 
Chris Ceresa is a math and classics junior at UF. His col-
umn appears on Fridays. 
Chris Ceresa
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 7
Guest columnist wrong 
about STEM degrees
I applaud the underlying 
premise of Austin Swink’s column regarding STEM (Sci-
ence, Technology, Engineer-
ing and Mathematics) majors. There is a need to encourage students to pursue these ﬁ  elds because they provide a large 
part of the foundation upon 
which our economy and soci-
ety rest. However, his propos-al that raising the tuition for these students will increase 
the number of graduates with 
these degrees is wholly false. 
First and foremost, Swink 
neglected to consider that Ber-
nie Machen is hardly speaking 
as an impartial observer seek-
ing the best for students. His 
job is to manage UF, and one of the main objectives of that job is for him to bring in as 
much money as possible to the 
university by any means at his 
disposal, including raising tu-ition. This is not an indictment against Machen; it is simply a statement of the obvious. 
This corresponds to the 
argument that increasing tu-ition will improve funding for 
lab equipment, high-salaried 
professors and costly teaching 
materials. While charging stu-dents more will bring in more dollars, the question should be: at what cost? 
It is highly doubtful that the 
additional revenue brought in will offset the loss of students as a result of the increase in costs. Furthermore, a large portion of the money used to pay for new equipment, ma-terials and even professors comes from research grants, not student tuition. Conse-quently, raising tuition would ultimately do relatively little to improve the labs, professors and materials. I ﬁ  nd it inter-esting that Swink argues that increasing tuition will make potential STEM students more carefully consider whether or not they should pursue such a degree. If this is such a good thing for STEM majors, why not apply it to all majors? 
Raising tuition for a politi-
cal science degree will make potential students also more 
carefully consider whether 
that is, in fact, the major they 
wish to obtain. Of course, this idea is nonsense. Rather than charging a “cover” for a STEM 
degree, a far more effective 
means of assisting students in 
choosing the major is to allow them to see ﬁ  rsthand what they will be learning and how 
it will help them in the long 
run. 
There are numerous pro-
grams in the College of Engi-
neering that pair new and po-
tential students with current students and professors  who 
can answer their questions 
and shed some light on the 
various degrees that interest 
them. Finally, I do agree with 
Swink’s counter to the argu-
ment that raising tuition will not keep students from lower socioeconomic backgrounds from seeking a STEM degree.  
There are abundant sources 
of ﬁ  nancial aid to assist those students. However, he seems to ignore the harm that will be done to students of aver-age socioeconomic status who do not have various ﬁ  nancial aid programs to fall back on. The additional burden placed on these students will re-sult in them being forced to work more hours or take out more loans in order to make it through. There is no need to saddle these students with additional debt or responsibil-ity. 
Swink’s intentions are ad-
mirable and noble. There is a real social and economic need for UF and universities across the nation to increase the number of STEM graduates. However, as is often the case, 
the best of intentions result in 
the worst outcomes. Such is 
the case here.
Brent Melvin 
UF senior 
Civil Engineering 
  
Few things missing from “Shire” column 
This is a letter in response to 
Luke Bailey’s column regard-ing the Shire as an ideal eco-nomic model. Being a Brit and a Tolkien nut myself, I thought I would provide you with a couple of insights that you ap-peared to be lacking based on your article.
Hobbits were modeled on 
Englishmen (speciﬁ  cally rural Englishmen), which means the Shire, in essence, is rural Eng-land — at least the area near Oxford where he lived. So the economy that you spoke of as being part of a “world that nev-er truly existed” actually did. 
It was the agrarian economy 
of central England in the 1930s that Tolkien was familiar with. I have never actually read this anywhere, but I simply know it in my heart to be true — hob-bits represent rural English-men. I grew up in rural south-ern England, and all the marks of the truth of what I am saying were in the community where I grew up.
So our modern economy is 
simply the evolution of what has happened from then to cre-ate what we have today.
Peter Colverson 
Gainesville residentLetters to the Editor
I can still clearly remember the joyous epiphany 
I had when I saw that 15-letter word on the UF website. 
After 30 minutes of refreshing my browser to 
check my admission status, multiple lines of tiny text 
greeted my eyes. 
One word, the only word that mattered, shouted at 
me: Congratulations.
I was a Gator.
After congratulatory hugs and phone calls, I ﬁ  -
nally bothered to read the rest of the text, as if there might be a mention of something more important 
than “congratulations.”
In the same sentence was the verdict. 
In plain English: You have been accepted into 
the spring 2012 freshman class.
Spring 2012. 
All feelings of celebration silently sank into an 
internal abyss of worry and uneasiness.
Spring meant not starting college until January. 
Spring meant watching all my friends move away and beginning the “college experience” while I 
stayed in limbo for another ﬁ  ve months. 
Spring meant missing football season. Spring 
meant delaying my ﬁ  rst year in college.
More serious concerns came to mind: 
Will I be able to graduate on time? 
How will I adjust? What should I do for my ﬁ  rst semester?Choosing another school was not an option. As 
an in-state school with a reputable journalism pro-gram, UF was the obvious choice for me. 
Bright Futures and Florida Prepaid College tu-
ition were ﬁ  nancial help I couldn’t afford to refuse.
So I, along with a few hundred other spring ad-
mits, had to reluctantly make some decisions.
From what I’ve gathered so far, many packed up 
early and enrolled at Santa Fe Community College for a semester in an effort to not fall behind. 
I chose to stay home and take two classes at a 
community college while working to save up mon-ey. 
Others did the same and stuck it out with mom 
and dad back in their hometowns, sympathizing 
with me that their experience was less than ideal.
As if our ﬁ  rst semester of college wasn’t already 
handicapped, an email was sent out to all those who 
applied for housing months before, delivering the 
solemn news.
The campus dorms were full.
Life in the dorms — the epitome of the college experience — had been sto-len from us as well. 
We were being robbed 
of the experience of deal-ing with a randomly as-signed roommate, becom-ing friends with others on 
the ﬂ  oor and having the 
luxury of walking to near-
by classes. 
With no room at the inn, many resorted to less 
lively off-campus housing.
Months passed and the invitation to attend Pre-
view ﬁ  nally came along. 
Instead of the traditional, comfortable two-day 
orientation with a night in a dorm, two days worth 
of information was crammed into one draining, 
seemingly endless session. 
Jan. 9 came and went, the rest of the Student 
Body continued about its already-familiar routine, walking, “scootering” and catching the bus across 
campus as if it were second nature.
We spring admits were still glued to our smart-
phones using maps to ﬁ  nd classes.
Some things somehow managed to work out — 
for me, at least. 
I am thrilled that I was able to stay a few extra 
months at my job, getting paid for doing what I 
love: writing. 
And I’m fortunate enough to be one out of only 
a dozen or so students who was ﬁ  nally offered on-campus housing, therefore salvaging a signiﬁ  cant part of my college experience. 
During Preview, I discovered that I will be grad-
uating on time. 
In fact, I might possibly be a semester early due 
to Advanced Placement, college and dual-enroll-ment credits. 
Others might not be as lucky, but I’m sure a sum-
mer session can help with getting back on track.Hall
Spring admits: While you continue to acclimate 
here to the Swamp, remember that we are, indeed, 
members of The Gator Nation. 
Although the road to Gainesville has not been 
the smoothest, in three years, we will be throwing 
up our decorated caps with the rest of the Class of 2015. Best of luck.
Colleen Wright is a journalism freshman at UF. Her 
column will regularly appear on Tuesdays.Spring admits are part of Gator Nation, tooColumn
Colleen Wright
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
AROUND GAINESVILLE
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
David Steenbergh blew cigarette 
smoke and gripped a plum binder 
thick with blank homeless surveys.
The data that would ﬁ  ll that bind-
er would tell stories of breakups, ad-
dictions and empty bank accounts.
Steenbergh, 44, was one of about 
50 people who went around the city 
Tuesday completing surveys for the Alachua County Coalition for the Homeless and Hungry Inc.
The surveys are reported to the 
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Florida 
Department of Children & Families 
to help determine how much fund-ing the coalition will receive.
“It gives us a much stronger ar-
gument for the basis of our fund-ing,” said Theresa Lowe, director of the Gainesville/Alachua County Ofﬁ  ce on Homelessness.
On Tuesday and Wednesday , 
1,100 homeless people were counted on city streets — not including those who were in shelters, hospitals, schools and jails, Lowe said.Steenbergh had been out in the 
heat all morning. True, he was paid $10 an hour to do the surveys. But he said it’s not about the money.
He said the coalition needs mon-
ey, though he’s heard homeless peo-ple say they don’t see the results. 
He does, though. He said he sees 
it in the work done through Section 8 housing and the Salvation Army.
“If you don’t look, then you don’t 
see it,” he said.
He walked up to a group and 
spoke to a woman. Looking directly in her eyes, he explained why he was there.
He explained how the coalition 
deﬁ  ned homelessness as anyone without a permanent home.
Most of the group wasn’t in-
terested. He approached a man in a black collared shirt and gold-rimmed glasses.
Charles Folsom, 43, cleaned his 
glasses as Steenbergh read the list.
What caused you to be home-
less? A breakup.
Where did you sleep Monday 
night? A friend’s house.
What brought you to Alachua County? Looking for work.
Steenbergh moved on, walking 
past the downtown library , through Sweetwater Park and, eventually , back to the Alachua County Hous-ing Authority.
Lowe waited for him. She sat 
by maps highlighted in orange and pink that marked boundaries of homeless haunts.
From sunrise to sunset, she wait-
ed for papers that might alleviate her constant ﬁ  ght for funding.
This ﬁ  scal year, she said, the co-
alition has received about $650,000 in grant renewals. 
The count lets her know how 
many children don’t have homes, how many veterans don’t have medicine and how many empty bel-lies roam the streets.
Last year, the survey found 
homelessness had jumped by 38 percent to 1,781 people.
Perhaps, she said, surveyors did 
a better job at ﬁ  nding people.
“It could just be that there are 
a lot of new people that are home-less,” she said. “And I suspect that it’s a lot of the latter.” Organization surveys city’s homeless
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Staff Writer
The dean of the College of 
Journalism and Communica-
tions announced Wednesday in an email to faculty and staff that he will step down in Janu-
ary 2013. 
John Wright has been on 
medical leave since before fall 
ﬁ  nal exams and is being treat-ed for throat cancer. After serv-ing as interim dean since July 2006, Wright became dean in December 2007.
Wright wrote he will re-
main part of the faculty and thanked his colleagues for their support.
The news comes days be-
fore the college is scheduled to be re-evaluated for renewal of its accreditation. Mike Wei-gold, associate dean for Un-
dergraduate Affairs and En-
rollment Management, said Wright started preparing the college about a year ago for the visits, which will take place Monday and Tuesday. 
“We’re ready for this be-
cause John made sure we were ready,” Weigold said. 
Spiro Kiousis, chair of the 
public relations department, said Wright will be back in a limited capacity within the next few weeks.
Kiousis said Wright pushed 
the college forward in digi-tal communications, study-abroad programs, distance 
learning and  interdepartmen-
tal collaboration.
“We’ve been very fortu-
nate to have him as our college leader,” he said.Dean of journalism 
college to step downBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-25-11-72-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-25-72-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-25-11-72-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
$9.99 to sign and  $100 credit
UPGRADED 4/4 ONLY $399
Text “SANTAFE” to 47464 for more!
Now Leasing for FALL!
4-25-11-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-25-11-72-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600
$99 Move In Special!
352-372-7555
FrederickGardens.com
4-25-11-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, 
fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term 
available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-25-11-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
4-25-11-72-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-25-11-72-2
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
4-25-72-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-25-11-72-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-25-11-72-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!
●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com4-25-11-72-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 
4352-335-4455    4-25-11-72-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000
●4/2 in NW $1300.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com       4-25-11-72-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! 
Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 
376-5887                       2-3-91-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave - Across from law school
$1650-special spring rate! - 4BR/2BA
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-31-12-16-2
SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
2BR/1.5BA close to UF, Shands,Vet School
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Contact our office to
inquire about student specials!!!!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting from $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available Feb 1st.REDUCED to $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183     1-31-11-15-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099    2-6-12-21-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
1-31-12-16-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA great house. 
Fireplace, wash/dry provided, dishwasher, wood floors, fenced. Pets OK. 7 min bike to campus. $1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342. Gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-12-14-2
3BR/1.5BA in Pleasant St, historic district, 
dwntwn. Ceiling fans, wood floors. Porch, newly painted. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. $1100/mo call April. 538-1550aprleve@aol.com   1-31-12-15-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    1-31-12-14-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA large house w/ big 
bedrooms & living room, extra game room. Fenced. Pets ok. W/D provided. 352-335-2342 or text 2100 NW 8th Court. $1400/mo or go to gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-29-12-14-2
1/1 spacious apt, $500,quiet, private,trees, 
close to downtown and UF, bus to SFC, car-pet & tile, pvt. patio w/locking gate, for calm, stable, mature people.1824 NW 9th St. 352 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   2-1-12-14-2Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/3BA house. Incredibly 
beautiful, clean, modern house. W/D pro-
vided, fireplace, vaulted ceilings, lg rooms. 
2108 NW 8th Ct. Text or call 352-339-2342. 
$1550/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  
1-27-12-9-2
AVAILABLE NOW!! 
WALK TO UF! Nice 2BR/1BA house. $450/
mo. Call Richard 371-4367   1-30-10-2
1 BED/1 BATH. Walk to Shands/UF.
Great kitchen and bath with w/d, disposal, 
dishwasher. Overlooks creek and trees. 
Small pet ok. $535+ deposit. 352-371-9520, 
352-317-2642    2-14-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   2-15-
12-20-2-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings 
for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  
2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laundry 372-
3783    2-15-12-20-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full size hottub 
on back screened porch. W/D incl, DW, car-
port. Across from one of nicest parks in Gville. 
3413 NW 8th Ave. $1600/mo. Call or text 352-
339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  
1-27-12-9-2
Avail Aug 1st. 1BR/1BA house, fireplace, 
wood floors, W/D, 1 block from campus.106 SW 12th St. $525/mo. Call or text 352-339-2342. website: gainesvillequalityrentalhous -
es.com   1-27-12-9-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, 
pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. 
Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & 
pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-12-9-2Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA nice house close to 
campus. Fireplace, wood floors, nice private 
backyard, W/D included. 1105 NW 10th Ave. 
Call or text 352-339-2342. $1550/mo. More 
info on gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-27-12-7-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra 
clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th 
Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-
215-3160   2-9-12-10-2
BOARDWALK 2/2 $500
Tennis & Pool Community
Near UF 2701 SW 13th Street
Sublet til July 31st @ $500/mo
End Unit 980 Sq. Ft. 'Carlyle"
Compare @ $699 - $759. Move in today!
Call Sharon @ 352-215-3198
2-3-12-10-2
***5 BEDROOM HOUSE***
Walk to Campus! Wood Floors. Lots of 
Parking. All appliances included. Available Aug 15th. Call John @ 561-866-8234.   1-27-4-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, 
dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-
5584   2-29-11-27-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
              ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100              ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500              ●4/3 house 3514 nw7 pl $1500
              ●4/2 house 610 nw 34 ter $1200
              ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15001-31-12-5-2
Tumblin' Creek condo! remodeled 1bed -
1bath, balcony, wood floors, a/c, pantry, walk/
bike to uf, pets neg. $725. per/mo. University Mgt, Inc. Lic. real estate broker 373-7904   2-7-12-10-2
**MOVE IN READY** 3/2 Condo near OAKS    
MALL New laundry rm w/ W/D. Newly reno-    vated enclosed porch. New cherry wd cab-    inets. Pool. Across from N FL Reg Med Ctr. $950./mo, + utils.  $500 sec. 352.318.4948    2-1-12-5-2LIVE ON UF LAKE
Prestigious Bivens Arm. 5BR house, Pool, & 
Dock. Bike or walk to Shands & UF. Serious 
grad students preferred. $2500/mo. Call 
619-857-9903    2-22-12-20-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. 
Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 
3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #3. Please call 352-
371-3473 leave message.       2-22-12-20-2
One Bedroom Apartment to Sub-Lease 
Williamsburg Village Apartments Furnished 
or UnFurnished Flexible Availability 2 blocks 
south of Shands Hospital
352-376-1253 ask for Val    1-31-12-5-3
3-bdrm, 3-bth, till July, $725/mnth, NO 
DEPOSIT, washer-n-dryer in unit, new car-
pet, Archer Rd and 34th St. Call Scott 352-
281-1057   2-2-12-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-25-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325
jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com  
1-30-11-20-4
Roommates needed. House 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row, near Shands, Tigert, Mid/Downtown. 4 lg BR/2BA. Students preferred! 
Huge, very clean home. Cent AC/H, FP , W/D, 
new wd flrs, DW, 5 extra closets, fenced yard, 
plenty of parking, on quiet street. Only $398/mo/room. Call/text Jordan 305-896-90661-31-19-4
 FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
District on 62nd: 1/1 in female 3/3 furn apt 
$407/mo, incl utils credit, cable, HS internet. 
Near Mall, UF & SFC, on bus rte. Move in 
2/1/12 w/lease end 7/31/12. Some fees apply. 
Criminal background check, 352-514-2942   
1-31-12-5-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
1-30-12-15-5
CONDO FOR SALE - SPARROW
3BR/2.5BA, 2-story. Approximately 1700 sq. 
ft., completely renovated. $65,000. Please call Drew 316-4465   2-10-12-20-520 Acres-Live On Land NOW!! Only $99/mo. 
$0 Down, Owner Financing, NO CREDIT 
CHECKS! Near El Paso, Texas, Beautiful 
Mountain Views! Free Color Brochure. 
(800)755-8953 www.sunsetranches.com    
1-27-1-5
Foreclosed Mobile Home with land ready to 
move in. Great value. Approx 1500 sq ft. 3 Br/2Ba. Serious offers only. No renters. Call (850)308-6473    1-27-1-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       
4-25-72-6BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
WE PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR CELL PHONES! 
REGARDLESS OF AGE OR CONDITION 
EVEN IF BROKEN! TECHMODO 6450 SW 
ARCHER RD 352-872-5881. OPEN 7 DAYS 
A WEEK!  1-31-15-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in 
bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory Refurbished
Check Us Out Before You Buy!!
Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL
352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com
4-25-11-99-10
Two brand new Sealy double sized, firm mat-
tresses, bought from Sears, still in packag -
ing, never used. Each cost $500 new. Make offer for one or both - call 352 337 6011.   
1-31-12-5-10
EARN $1000-$3200 a month to drive our 
new cars with ads. www.PaidDriven.com.   1-27-1-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-
73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
12, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-
72-12
I BUY JUNK CARS
●●● TOP PRICES PAID!●●●
Call Anytime 352-443-11001-31-11-65-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!
No credit check!!!!
Cash vehicles $999 and up!
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!
Over 150 vehicles in stock!
Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans!
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
92 Eagle Talon $999
94 Ford Taurus $999
94 Toyota Camry $1500
98 Oldsmobile Intregue $1500
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 Nissan Altima $6999
04 Nissan Sentra $6999
02 Toyota Camry $6999
04 Chevy Astro $6999
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
98 Dodge Ram $3999
95 Chevy Blazer $3999
02 Chevy Blazer $4999
99 Dodge Durango $6999
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W2 and drive home today!
30 Day Warranty!
No Credit Check!
352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check!Cars, Trucks, SUVs & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
04 Honda Accord $7999
04 Chevy Impala $799902 Honda Odyssey $799901 Toyota Solara $7999352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
05 Dodge Durango $9999
05 Ford F150 $10,99906 Saturn Ion $11,99907 Ford Mustang $12,999352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 Dodge Neon $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $199902 Kia Spectra $299901 Olds Alero $3999352-338-1999    4-25-65-12
94 Cadillac SLS $1999
99 Acura Integra $3999099 Buick Century $399995 Chevy Camero $2500352-338-1999    4-25-65-12
97 Ford Explorer $1999
97 Landrover Discovery $299998 Chevy Venture $299998 Chevy Astro $3999352-338-1999    4-25-65-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between 
the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-
tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking 
Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or
smokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   
1-31-12-27-14
TUTORS FOR SPRING 1-on-1 tutoring at-
risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-
noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net
1-31-12-15-14
A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14●●● FEMALE SMOKERS! ●●●
Do you want to quit smoking? Female
smokers needed to participate in a smoking
cessation study. You may be compensated.
Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-
6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com
2-20-20-14
Personal/Office Asst. Clerical/Office duties 
Proficient in Office 20 hrs M-F Must own ve-
hicle laptop and cell phone Scheduling flex-
ible Respond to Melissazblack@gmail.com 
with cover letter and resume Compensation 
tbd   1-31-5-14
Equipment Recovery Technicians Needed
We are currently seeking equipment recovery 
techs who can work evenings and Saturdays 
living within 30 mile radius of Gainesville or 
Ocala. Candidates must have reliable trans-
portation, cell phone and a computer with 
internet access. Needs to be able to pass 
background check, drug screen and have a 
valid drivers license and insurance. For more 
information please contact Jay Erickson at 
jay@universalcollectionsystems.com.   2-1-
5-14
Part time help needed at Horse farm. 
Afternoon and weekend hours available. 
Duties include feeding, cleaning stalls, 
turning out horses, and general barn work. 
Previous experience required. Please email
rachel@starquarry.com   1-30-3-14
Warehouse Runners Needed!
Ben Hill Griffin StadiumApply M-F 8 AM - 4 PMConcessions Ofc @ Gate 185 Part-Time positions available    2-3-6-14Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counselors 
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp 
located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 
11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 
1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. 
www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx
4-25-12-72-14
FT NANNIES NEEDED NOW: 18 mon/
triplets; M-F 8-5; prev. exp; LONG TERM 
COMMIT ONLY! Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail 
resume, pix, & schedule to info@noah -
sarknanny.com   1-27-12-15-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
help wanted,outside sales,set
appts. make sales,huge upfront
commissions,15% monthly residual
paid weekly,monthly. instant
training. cool internet system,
sell custom phone apps. for info
text 3869313477-call 3865034463    1-27-
12-5-14
Admin asst for local accountant
Organized, reliable, friendlyDuties: phone, mail, banking 
filing. Transportation a must
10hrs/wk 7.67/hr mon/wed pref. 
email resume to ufmgmt@gmail.com   1-27-4-14
 FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 13
Need sweet sitter and household assistant
for two kids, afternoons M - F. $10/hour.
We pay all taxes and will withhold at your
requested rate. Email gville_mom@cox.net
for more info.
1-30-12-2-14
F/T legal admin assistant for busy law firm. 
Excellent writing, problem solving and people 
skills. Organized and dependable. Spanish 
speaking a plus. Pay DOE. Call (352) 371-
4000.    2-9-12-10-14
Office asst. needed
Mon. & Sat. 10/hr.
Apply @ Eyecare Express 39th ave & 13th st.    2-2-12-5-14
PT K9 camp counselor. Requires safely 
handling groups of off leash dogs, excellent 
customer service, daily cleaning. Experience 
working with animals beside your own pre-
ferred. Apply in person at 3749 SW 42nd 
ave. Info call (352) 376-9544   1-31-12-3-14
Assistant manager for doggie daycare. 
Responsible for employee management, administrative work, customer care, and also help handle group of 20+ dogs, daily clean -
ing. Must have experience working in pet care industry and management/supervisory experience. Apply in person at Camp Marlin Doggie Daycare 3749 SW 42nd Ave. Info call (352) 376-9544    1-31-12-3-14Driver - Weekly Hometime. Dry and 
Refrigerated. Daily Pay! 31 Service Centers. 
Local Orientation. Newer trucks. CDL-A, 3 
months current OTR experience. (800)414-
9569 www.driveknight.com   1-27-1-14
Need 13 Good Drivers Top 5% Pay & 401K 
2 Mos. CDL Class A Driving Exp (877)258-
8782 www.meltontruck.com    1-27-1-14
Drivers: RUN 5 STATE REGIONAL! Get 
Home Weekends, Earn Up to 39c/Mi, 1 
yr OTR Flatbed exp. req'd. SUNBELT 
TRANSPORT, LLC (800)572-5489 ext. 227    
1-27-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-
try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider 
housing available. Barn Family Program to 
mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling 
opportunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    
2-29-11-51-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    1-31-12-12-15
HOUSE SITTER AVAILABLE
Responsible, 50 year-old male, non-smok -
er, non-drinker. No pets, but likes them. 
References avaiilable. Call 914-282-4921    2-1-12-5-15
ALLIED HEALTH career training- Attend col-
lege 100% online. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (800)481-9409 www.CenturaOnline.com    1-27-1-15
$$$ ACCESS LAWSUIT CASH NOW!!! $$$ 
As seen on TV.$$$ Injury Lawsuit Dragging? Need $500-$500,000++within 48/hrs? Low rates APPLY NOW BY PHONE! Call Today! Toll-Free: (800)568-8321 www.lawcapital.com    1-27-1-15
EARN COLLEGE DEGREE ONLINE. 
*Medical, *Business, *Criminal Justice. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (877)206-5165 www.CenturaOnline.com    1-27-1-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for hands 
on Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA ap-proved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769    1-27-1-15WANTED 10 HOMES needing siding, win-
dows, roofs or sunrooms. Save hundreds of 
dollars. No money down. Payments $89/mo. 
All credit accepted. Senior/Military discounts. 
(866)668-8681    1-27-1-15
Heat & Air JOBS - Ready to work? 3 week 
accelerated program. Hands on environ -
ment. Nationwide certifications and Local Job Placement Assistance! (877)359-1690   
1-27-1-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit 
your schedule.American Heart Association 
Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 
years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   
2-15-12-25-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Best religion? NO religion!
Get to know your Creator.See why the Bible is unique.Your creator's love for you.You Tube: "Eric Ludy - The Gospel" (11:27)   2-9-12-10-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop Monday - 
Thursday, 1/30 – 2/2.  Verbal on M, W 5-7 
pm, Math on T,R 5-7 pm.   To register and 
learn the room location, go to the TC web-
site www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on 
“Study Skills & GRE Workshop.”   1-30-5-20
Huge discounts when you buy 2 types of 
advertising! 122 weekly newspapers, 32 
websites, 25 daily newspapers.  Call now 
to diversify your advertising with Advertising 
Networks of Florida (866)742-1373   1-27-1-
20
RED GREEN LIVE Experience this hilarious 
one-man show. April 5th, Tampa Theatre 
(800-745-3000), April 7th, News-Journal 
Centre, Davidson Theatre, Daytona State 
College. (800-595-4849) www.redgreen.com   
1-27-1-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Gainesville Equestrian facility, Cheney Walk 
Farm, now has limited Full or Training Board 
available. We also have a trainer available 
who is currently training two Olympic level Pentathletes.Full board starts at $600.00 per month. For more info call: Sandy - 352-494-1710 or visit: www.cheneywalkfarm.com.   1-31-12-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Double Dose of the Podcast
Check alligatorSports.org or iTunes this evening for two 
episodes of the podcast, featuring host Greg Luca. We’ll be talking Gators basketball as well as recruiting.alligatorSports.org 
Make sure to check the website during the weekend for coverage of men’s and women’s basketball, tennis, track and more. 
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
As the nation’s leader in 3-point shooting, Florida came 
into Ole Miss’ Tad Smith Coliseum knowing how to sustain 
a scorching pace from behind the arc through more than half a season.
On Thursday night, the Rebels could only maintain theirs 
for half a game.
Though Ole Miss led by as many as 16 points early in the 
first half on 6-for-6 shooting from three, Florida had no need to panic as it entered its locker room down 38-28 at the break.
“They shot the ball incredibly well in the first half, but we 
just stayed the course,” UF coach Billy Donovan said.
The Rebels (13-7, 3-3  Southeastern Conference) — ranked 
339th nationally in 3-point shooting percentage before Thurs-day — made just one of their six attempts from long range in 
the second half as the No. 14 Gators rallied for a 64-61 win.
Facing a daunting deficit against a team with a perfect 8-0 
home record, Donovan challenged his team in the second half 
to win in four-minute segments, even if it was just by a point.
“What we talked about coming out of the half was, OK, it’s 
a 10-point game, we don’t need to get 10-points back in two minutes,” Donovan said.
UF was able to claim each of those segments by holding the 
Rebels to 8-of-29 shooting from the field. Florida outscored Ole 
Miss 36-22 in the final 20 minutes on 52 percent shooting.
With just less than 12 minutes left, UF cut the lead to one. 
Florida claimed the lead for the final time with 5:35 remaining 
after three straight 3-pointers by junior guards Mike Rosario, who had eight points, and Kenny Boynton (12 points).
“I was really happy with our guys’ resiliency, their charac-
ter and the way they kind of handled themselves on the road,” Donovan said. “Kenny Boynton stuck with it and knocked down some shots.” 
While long-range shooting ultimately grabbed Florida the 
lead, it was junior center Patric Young who led a second-half surge inside.
For the third straight game, the Gators sat the 6-foot-9 Young 
in favor of fellow sophomore Will Yeguete, a 6-foot-7 forward, in the starting lineup. 
Young has seen limited playing time since Florida’s last road 
game at South Carolina on Jan. 14, but against Ole Miss, he was on the court for 26 minutes and scored a team-high 15 points.
“I was really proud of Patric Young,” Donovan said. “I 
thought he really took a step maturity-wise, keeping his com-posure and just kept playing and playing and playing. He was a force at the basket for us.”
The Gators also received a solid performance out of senior point guard Erving Walker, who keyed UF’s 21-assist, five-turnover night with nine assists of his own and 10 points. His only turnover of the game came in the final 18 seconds with Florida up 63-60, when he slipped on the court while trying to milk the clock by evading an Ole Miss foul.
Having escaped Mississippi with its second road win, Flor -ida will have to turn its attention to a quick home turnaround Saturday against No. 18 Mississippi State at 1:30 p.m.  
“To be honest with you, Ohio State (and) Mississippi State, 
probably one-two of the most talented teams we’ll have played so far this season,” Donovan said. “They’re very gifted and they’re very talented.”
Gators rally from large first-half deficit to beat Ole Miss 
AP Photo
Florida point guard Erving Walker scored 10 points and registered nine assists in Thursday’s come-from-behind win 
at Ole Miss. The Gators overcame a 16-point first-half deficit to beat the Rebels 64-61 in Oxford, Miss. 
LAcrosse
JOSH JURNOVOY 
Alligator Writer
 
The Gators came into the 2012 
season with a big hole to fill in the 
midfield.
Thursday night, they might have 
found three ways to fill it.
Freshmen midfielders Nicole 
Graziano and Nora Barry made strong first impressions along with junior transfer attacker Gabi Wie-gand in Florida’s 17-2 win against the England Women’s National Team on Thursday night at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
After UF’s fourth leading scorer from the 2011 season, Janine Hillier, transferred to Stony Brook in De-cember, Gators head coach Amanda 
O’Leary was looking to her new-
comers to replace the departed mid-fielder’s production.
“Our freshmen came out and did 
a good job,” O’Leary said. “Gabi did a great job scoring a lot of goals for us and has been a great addition to our program.”
Wiegand, who played at Rich-
mond for two years prior to transfer -
ring to UF following the 2011 season, had no trouble fitting in with her new team, finishing with a game-high five goals and two assists.Her intensity was evident in the 
21st minute when she scored an un-assisted goal for her first as a Gator. 
Wiegand wrapped around the left 
post and shot 
from 5 meters 
out while diving head first to make it 9-0.
“I wasn’t 
thinking any-thing,” Wiegand 
said. “I was just 
thinking, ‘Take 
the shot and hope for the best.’”
O’Leary said the biggest aspect 
of Wiegand’s game the staff has worked with her on is her aggres-siveness, and the results showed  Thursday night.
“She was very tentative in the be-
ginning to go to goal,” O’Leary said. “With that kind of talent, she doesn’t need to be very tentative. She needs to go to goal as much as we can pos-sibly get her to go to goal.”
Barry and Graziano were part of 
Florida’s 2011 recruiting class that was ranked third in the country by 
Inside Lacrosse magazine.
Graziano, a native of Mendham, 
N.J., finished the game with four 
goals, two of which were on free po-sition shots. Despite her strong play , Graziano refused to take any credit and was effusive with praise for her teammates.
“I couldn’t have done it all by 
myself,” she said. “Whether it was the defense or (goalkeepers Mikey Meagher and Cara Canington) mak-
ing a huge save … or my teammates 
assisting me, it was definitely a team effort.”
Barry , the 15th ranked recruit in 
2011 according to Inside Lacrosse, scored both of her goals in the first half. Florida’s leading scorer from 2011, Kitty Cullen, assisted on one of Barry’s goals while also finishing the 
game with a hat trick.
Florida finds potential starters in exhibition win against England
Wiegand
Quotable
“My goal is a 4.1, so y’all be looking out for it. You think I’m 
playing. As soon as I run it, I’m running out of the stadium.”
Chris Rainey, Former UF running back
(on his expectations for the 40-yard dash at the NFL combine) FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 15
David Carr / Alligator
Florida junior Ashanée Dickerson fell on beam for the first time in her colle-
giate career last season against Arkansas, registering a disappointing 9.275. 
LANDON WATNICK
Alligator Writer
 
Facing a top-ranked team like Arkansas may 
seem like a daunting task, but the Gators have a 
score to settle with the Razorbacks. 
When No. 8 Florida (3-0, 1-0 Southeastern 
Conference) hosts No. 1 Arkansas (6-0, 2-0 SEC), No. 24 Maryland (3-2) and Bridgeport (2-1) in a quad meet in the O’Connell Center tonight at 7, 
it will look to avenge its only defeat of the 2011 
regular season.
In last year’s loss against Arkansas on Feb. 25, 
No. 1 Florida left Fayetteville, Ark., stunned af-ter getting upset 196.70-196.10. 
“It’s in the back of our heads all of the time,” 
sophomore Mackenzie Caquatto said. 
In that meet, UF and Arkansas were tied 
heading into the final rotation. 
On balance beam, then-freshman Alaina John-
son and then-sophomore Ashanée Dickerson suffered the first beam falls of their collegiate ca-reers and scored a 9.05 and 9.275, respectively. 
The Gators were forced to count a miss to-
ward their team total.
In the 2011 postseason, UF placed second 
(196.975) at the SEC Championships, surpassing fourth-place Arkansas (195.800). 
But the Razorbacks eventually edged out the 
Gators 196.55 to 196.425 at the NCAA North Central Regional.
“It was a very close meet,” Dickerson said of 
last season’s regular-season matchup. “But this year, I’m just going to go for it all and not worry about last year.”Junior Marissa King said last year’s regular-
season loss doesn’t linger with her, but she’s not sure if it still does with any of her teammates. 
“I think a loss is like a nice realization of 
where you are in a season,” King said. 
“A loss is expected, and that just happened to 
be our loss last season against that team. I don’t think there was ever like a dent or a scar that 
came from it.”
The two SEC teams feature recent award win-
ners. UF’s Kytra Hunter earned SEC Freshman 
Gymnast of the Week honors on Tuesday, while Arkansas sophomore Katherine Grable was 
named SEC Gymnast of the Week. 
For the Razorbacks, Grable (39.492) and se-
nior Jaime Pisani (39.367) have the second- and 
ninth-highest all-around averages in the coun-
try, respectively. 
Hunter (39.233) is 16th in the nation in that 
category, while King and Dickerson are tied for 
20th with a 39.188 average. 
No. 8 Florida is not only focused on the chal-
lenge the top-ranked Razorbacks present, but also on adjusting to the swift, tournament-style pace of a quad meet.
All four teams will compete one after anoth-
er with no down time, similar to how the SEC Championships, NCAA Regionals and NCAA Championships are organized. 
“I’ve always referred to [a quad meet] as a 
three-ring circus,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. 
“It’s really a great test for the athletes to be able 
to focus with a lot of things going on.”Florida gymnastics looking to 
avenge only loss from last year
KYLE EVERS
Alligator Writer
 
Florida is looking to regain some of 
the program’s lost swagger this week.
Coming off a successful meet at home 
on Sunday, the Gators women’s track 
team will travel to College Station, Texas, 
to compete in the Texas A&M Challenge 
at Gilliam Indoor Track Stadium on Fri-day and Saturday. 
The meet, which will feature six teams 
from the Big 12, Pac-12 and Southeastern Conference, will be a test for a UF team looking to improve from last year. Coach Mike Holloway said the coaches had a meeting with some of the team’s leaders 
to discuss motivation and pride in their 
program.
“We didn’t have a very good year 
with the women last year,” Holloway said. “We are trying to get them back up there, in the upper echelon, where they belong.”
Five of the Gators’ opponents at this 
week’s meet, including an experienced 
and top-ranked Oregon squad, are listed 
in the Top 25 women’s indoor rankings. Florida is not ranked. 
Holloway said the women believe 
they have the ability and talent to be a top-25-caliber team. Many members of the women’s squad were high school All-Americans and competed on World Junior teams.
The women have up-and-coming, 
young talent that will be competing this week, such as sophomore sprinter Dar -
shay Davis and freshman high jumper Taylor Burke. Both competed at the Gator Invite last week, when Davis fin-ished fifth in the 55-meter sprint, and 
Burke won the high jump event with the fourth-highest jump in school history. 
“I’m really excited. 
It’s definitely some -
thing I’ve never been exposed to,” Burke said. “So I am excited to get there and just 
compete.”
Current standout veterans, hurdler 
Ugonna Ndu and throwers Keely Me-
deiros and Fidela James, will have to per -
form well in their events for the women 
to have a successful day.
Holloway said the women’s team is 
encouraged by the success of the No. 2 men’s team. 
“There is a focus, there is a determina-
tion,” Holloway said. “They don’t want to let the men have all the fun.”Gators women to face stiff testmen’s tennis
ELI MARGER
Alligator Writer
 
After a quarterfinal exit in last year’s ITA 
Team Indoor Championships, the Gators en-
ter 2012 qualifying as the team to beat. 
One week after an impressive 6-1 victory 
at Baylor, No. 5 Florida will look to carry its 
momentum into the ITA Kick-Off weekend 
at Linder Stadium. 
The event serves as a qualifying event for 
the ITA Team Indoor Championships, which will be held at the University of Virginia from Feb. 17-20.
Last year, the Gators defeated North Caro-
lina State to earn a berth in the Indoor Cham-pionships in Seattle. Florida was eliminated by No. 21 Duke in the quarterfinals. This year, the Gators are the hosts and the highest-ranked team. In many ways, this weekend will be a better indicator of the team’s ability than last week’s match in Waco, Texas.
“This weekend is far more important to 
us than the Baylor match,” coach Andy Jack-
son said. “The main reason to play such a 
high-level opponent in the first match of the season is to get ready for the kick-off week-end.”
Florida’s opponents this weekend, how-
ever, are no slouches either. The Gators will host No. 55 New Mexico on Saturday at 10 a.m., before No. 33 Miami and No. 41 Wake Forest square off later in the day. The win-
ners of each match will meet on Sunday for a berth in the Indoor Championships.
With all three teams in Gainesville ranked 
among the top 55 in the nation, Florida will 
be up against some tough competition. Three years ago, the Hurricanes defeated the Gators in the second round of the NCAA Tourna-ment in Gainesville.
“We play New Mexico first, who have a 
lot of seniors,” Jackson said, “And then, ob-
viously, Miami is one of the few teams that 
have had some good success against us here at Florida.”
With last Sunday’s 
match serving as a good barometer of where the team stands, Jackson still feels the team has work to do. The Gators face a dif-
ficult schedule this season, 
including matches at No. 1 USC and No. 2 Virginia. 
While the slate of oppo-
nents seems challenging, Jackson is confident that his team will improve.
“We have a huge amount of improve-
ment that we have to do, but I love the senior leadership we’re getting from Nassim Slilam. And I love that sort of team chemistry and work ethic of our team,” he said.
“We’re going to take some losses, but 
we’ve got to get better as the season goes on. That’s what the schedule is designed to do, but it can crack you if you don’t handle it the right way.”UF to host qualifying matches
Holloway
Jackson
Hosting No. 1 
Arkansas tonight
 “A loss is expected, and that just hap-
pened to be our loss last season against 
that team. I don’t think there was ever 
like a dent or a scar that came from it.”
Marissa King
UF juniorJONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
 
Failing to muscle up enough for a championship last sea-
son, Florida now looks to finesse its way to the top.
Although the Gators led the nation in runs (508) and home 
runs (124) last year, their offense ran dry when it counted most 
against Arizona State in the Championship Series of the Wom-
en’s College World Series. Florida’s six total runs in two games 
in the finals were just more than one run below its average dur -
ing the rest of the season (7.18). 
Now, coach Tim Walton has changed their offensive phi-
losophy to try to keep the scoring consistent from beginning to end.
The Gators have focused on building a faster team, with an 
emphasis on reaching base and good baserunning to control the game. This change comes after losing four seniors on of-
fense that combined for 51 percent of the team’s home runs.
“The biggest thing, the quickest thing to see is . . . the offen-
sive magnitude of what we lost, [and] being able to pick that up 
in numbers, in bunches, as opposed to picking it up by one or two individuals,” Walton said.
A small-ball approach to the game does not mean a com-
plete abandonment on hitting for power; instead, it’s a shift from relying on an entire lineup full of strength to relying on players getting on base with select individuals knocking them 
in with extra-base hits.
“The number of home runs we hit last year, we are not go-
ing to hit this year,” Walton said. “But I think there are plen-
ty of powerful hitters in this lineup that can do a lot of great things.”
Walton expects those great things again from both senior 
Michelle Moultrie, who led the team in steals (31) and on-base percentage (.519), and sophomore Cheyenne Coyle, who fin-ished second in both categories among returning players.
Along with the experienced players, Coyle said the seven 
incoming freshmen will also help UF play better small ball.“We still have our powers, but, having the speed, we can do 
a lot more things, like on the bases,” Coyle said of this year’s lineup. 
“[We can] score a lot of runs, outscoring our opponents 
more, not just with power but with base hits, stealing bases and delayed steals. It’s definitely going to happen this year.”
Still, Florida returns junior Brittany Schutte, UF’s single-
season home run record holder (22). If she remains a top-tier slugger, it will allow the rest of the lineup to focus on getting on base and working the basepaths.
Both players and Walton expressed that they already see a 
changed team, although the season has not even started yet. 
Sophomore Kasey Fagan compared the two squads during the 
preseason media day.
“I feel like this team is more versatile,” Fagan said. “We’re 
faster; we can do more things at the plate. We aren’t just a one-dimensional team. People are going to be surprised, that’s all I can say.”16, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
Alligator File Photo
Florida sophomore shortshop Cheyenne Coyle is one of the players the Gators will be relying on to architect a small-
ball feel to this year’s offense. Coyle finished second among returning players in OBP and stolen bases last year.
soFtbAll
Gators taking small-ball approach after exodus of power hitters
sMAll bAll IN 2011
How UF compared to Missouri, a renowned small-ball 
team, and the rest of last year’s WCWS opponents.
      BA       HPG        OBP       SB        BB      SacB    HrPG      RPG
Florida    .324   8.30   .432   1.48   322    32    1.80    7.36
Missouri     .296   7.90   .385   1.73   218   109   1.06    5.76
Avg. of 6     .303   7.92   .393   1.49   214    44    1.00    5.63
other teams