VOLUME 106 ISSUE 119 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Car enthusiasts show off rides for charity
Saturday marked the Gainesville Street Rod 
Club’s 30th annual Cruz-in car show, pg. 3. St. Patrick’s day revelers get an early start Saturday
Mothers Pub & Grill opened at 7 a.m., pg 4. 
Volunteers shave heads in support of a cure for child cancer
Fourteen people had their heads shaved for the cause, pg 8.  Monday 
Feature: Gators 
Skeet, T rap and 
Sporting Club has 
seen an increase in 
interest. See story, 
page 5.
86/59
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 13  MATT WATTS
 Alligator Staff Writer
 OMAHA, Neb. — So much for 
Cinderella.
  Florida made sure it didn’t go 
down as part of Norfolk State’s 
fairy tale Sunday, throttling the Spartans and ending all hopes of a magical run. Instead, it’s the 
Gators (25-10) who will travel to 
Phoenix on Thursday for a match-up with No. 3 seed Marquette in the program’s seventh, and sec-ond straight, berth in the Sweet 
16 after winning 84-50 Sunday in 
Omaha, 
Neb.
  They 
did it by pound-
ing on the Spartans (26-10) early, going on a 25-0 run over 6:28 af-ter NSU established a 6-4 lead four minutes in. Florida made 9 
of 11 from the ﬁ  eld during the 
span, while also holding Norfolk State to 0-of-10 shooting and forc-
ing four turnovers.
  “I haven’t ever been a part of 
anything like that,” guard Kenny 
Boynton said. “We did a great job at getting stops and convert-
ing on the offensive end, and that showed the level of focus we had 
out there.”
Afterward, freshman Brad 
Beal talked about the importance of establishing an early lead and eliminating any notion that Nor-folk State could hang with Flor-
ida.   “Once we went on the 25-0 
run, they kind of shutdown from 
there on,” he said. “We knew they 
were capable of making threes, and we didn’t want them to keep 
the game close and get back into the game. We did a great job of 
putting the pedal to the metal 
and knocking down shots and playing good defense.”
  Coming into the game, much 
of the talk was about NSU’s ad-vantage in length, with each starter listed at 6-foot-5 or taller. But it was UF that dominated the boards, and in turn, dominated 
the game. 
  Florida outrebounded Nor-
folk State 27-13 in the ﬁ  rst half, 
helping it to get out in transi-
tion and score points in a hurry 
while also wearing down a team that had to grind it out for all 40 minutes Friday. The Gators, on the other hand, were able to rest 
key starters down the stretch of 
their blowout win against Vir-ginia, which helped contribute to the team’s largest rebounding 
margin of the season Sunday, a 
plus-17 effort (48-31).
  “That’s our focus of having 
your body in play and boxing out and going after the ball,” said 
Beal, who ﬁ  nished with 14 points 
and nine boards. Gators blow out Spartans, advance to Sweet 16  
� THE CASE HAS BEEN SENT TO THE 
STATE ATTORNEY’S OFFICE.
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Staff Writer
Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity was named 
Friday morning as the second fraternity re-
cently involved in hazing at UF.
Interim Vice President for Student Af-
fairs Dave Kratzer named the fraternity, 
which was investigated by University Po-
lice, at an anti-hazing task force meeting.
He said the fraternity was linked to haz-
ing by someone being interviewed about the Alpha Phi Alpha hazing incident. Ac-cording to UPD’s crime log, the incidents under investigation took place from April 23, 2010, to Jan. 31, 2011.UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said UPD 
sent the sworn allegation to the state attor-ney’s ofﬁ  ce Thursday. State Attorney Bill 
Cervone is expected to release information 
in this week.
After the fraternity was named, Kratzer 
said, the university conﬁ  rmed that the fra-ternity was being investigated in connection with hazing. The national ofﬁ  ce ordered the UF chapter to disband, Kratzer said.
Alpha Phi Alpha and Kappa Alpha Psi 
are both members of UF’s National Pan-Hellenic Council.
“We’re not trying to target any section of 
our Student Body, but when things come to us, we will always follow our procedures,” Kratzer said.
Contact Clare Lennon at clennon@alliga-
tor.org.Kappa Alpha Psi named 
in reported hazing caseSTUDENT GOVERNMENT
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
Student Government plans to install 
six cellphone charging stations across 
campus this week.
Each station costs $3,500, totaling 
$21,000.
The stations can charge up to 18 de-
vices in 15 minutes, said former Senate President Andy Mason, who co-au-
thored the bill to fund them. 
The stations will include chargers 
with plugs for several kinds of phones.
The Student Senate approved the 
bill in the fall to transfer the money for 
the stations.
The bill transferred $28,800 from re-
served funds for the charging stations, which were estimated to cost $4,800 each. The funds come from student fees.
The leftover $7,800 will go back in 
the reserves, said Unite Party spokes-woman and Senate Budget Committee Chairwoman Christina Bonarrigo.
The stations are 
scheduled to be in-stalled at Library West, the Hub, the Reitz Union, South-
west Recreation Cen-
ter, Marston Library and the Student Rec-reation and Fitness 
Center.
Mason said UF will be one of the 
ﬁ  rst universities nationwide to install SG to install cellphone 
charging stations on campus AP Photo
  Five Gators scored in double ﬁ  gures, including Erik Murphy (10 points), as Florida toppled No. 15 seed 
Norfolk State to reach the Sweet 16 in back-to-back years. UF faces No. 3 seed Marquette on Thursday.  
 SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15
SEE CHARGING, PAGE 4Bonarrigo
UF Bask etballNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 119 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Marissa Prieto, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett,   
  David Williams, Nika Zecevic
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST What’s happening?
HOSA General Body Meeting
Today, 6:30 p.m.
Little Hall, Room 121
Come out to the Health 
Occupations Students of America general body meet-ing. HOSA is an organization 
for all students of pre-health 
professions. Volunteer and leadership opportunities will be discussed, and officer and committee chair applications 
will be due. Email hosauf@
gmail.com for more informa-tion.
“Nora’s Will” - Second Annual 
Jewish Film Festival
Today, 7 p.m.
Hippodrome State TheatreJoin UF Hillel for the the Second Annual Jewish Film Festival’s Jewish comedy 
night screening of “Nora’s 
Will.”
Young Concert Artist: Jeanine 
De Bique, SopranoToday, 7:30 p.m.Squitieri Studio TheatreInternational rising soprano star Jeanine De Bique will 
perform in the Squitieri 
Studio Theatre, inside the Phillips Center, Monday. She will be joined by award-
winning pianist Christopher 
Cano. Her program will include 
classical works from compos-
ers such as Mozart, Richard Strauss and Maurice Ravel. Student tickets are $12. Visit www.performingarts.ufl.edu 
for more information.
Prom dress drive begins
Today to Friday
Women’s History Month is hosting the first prom dress 
drive benefiting Gainesville 
area high schools. Donate gently used prom/special occasion dresses to “Underdogs: A War Movie” - 
Second Annual Jewish Film 
Festival
Tuesday, 7 p.m.Hippodrome State Theatre
Join UF Hillel for the Second 
Annual Jewish Film Festival Jewish studies night screen-ing of “Underdogs: A War 
Movie” with featured speak-
er Tamir Sorek.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.
org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above 
events. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases 
will not appear in the paper.
CORReCtiOn
Tuesday’s edition of the 
Alligator incorrectly identi-fied Jeff Babik as the owner 
of a food truck. 
Babik interned for Commissioner Jeanna Mastrodicasa in Fall 2011 
and worked with the public 
safety committee.local high school students who might not otherwise 
be able to attend prom. 
Drop boxes will be located in all residence hall com-mon areas.
Messiah’s Mansion
Today to SaturdayNorth Lawn
Messiah’s Mansion, a life-
size reconstruction of the Hebrew wilderness taber -
nacle, will be on the North Lawn through Saturday. 
Visitors will engage in guid-
ed tours of the sanctuary.   Tour hours are Sundays and weekdays, 10 a.m. to 6 
p.m., and Saturdays, 1 p.m. 
to 6 p.m.
The Art of Google Books
Today to April 3Reitz Union, second floor galleryMonday to Thursday, 9 
a.m. to 9 p.m.
Friday to Sunday, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Reception March 22, 7 p.m. 
to 9 p.m.The Art of Google Books by Krissy Wilson is an image 
curation blog that values 
the adversaria chronicled in book digitization. The aim of the project is two-fold: to recognize book dig-
itization as re-photography 
and to promote the signs of use that accompany these texts as worthy of study 
and exhibition. For more 
information, visit theartof-googlebooks.tumblr.com/exhibit.SUNNY
86/59PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/60PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/61PARTLY
CLOUDY
83/60THUNDER  
STORMS
82/59FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
 MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
March 19, 1982: Microbiology Professor Donna 
Duckworth speaks at the Miller Health Center, saying 
she believes Christopher Columbus unwittingly carried a bacterium, syphilis, from the New World. Duckworth suggests that by indirectly introducing syphilis to Euro-
peans, early Indians may have been taking advance re-
venge on Europeans for enslavement.
March 23, 1983: UF Student Health Advisory Board 
votes today to raise the student health fee and other al-ternatives. Other proposed alternatives discussed would eliminate the gynecologist, inpatient and mental health units and replace two doctors with physician’s assis-tants.
March 20, 1986: After eight months of court cases, UF 
is eligible to receive $6.7 million in renovation and con-struction money . The ruling, which overrides Gov . Bob Graham’s veto, allows money for minor renovations, maintenance and planning for future products, like a new $15-million performing arts center.
March 22, 1991: The Food Service Advisory Commit-
tee may switch from paper to Styrofoam products next fall. Committee chairwoman Linda Bobroff said if the plan is approved, it will save money, and it works bet-ter. Styrofoam is more environmentally sound because paper products are coated and cannot be recycled, she said.
March 21, 2008: At its next meeting, the Florida legis-
lature and the Board of Governors will consider the $16 
million it will take to renovate the Southwest Recreation 
Center for Fall 2009. Project members plan to expand SWRC to the corner of Hull Road and Bledsoe Drive with an indoor track and an area for group fitness classes.
— RAVEN PRITCHETTlocal
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Writer
Gregg Freas walked hand-in-hand 
with his 4-year-old son, Samuel, and 
pointed out the shiniest engines he could find for his boy.
They peered into the chrome maze 
of a hot rod, nodded and smiled to each other. It was their first car show together.
The Gainesville Street Rod Club 
hosted its 30th annual Cruz-in, a car show and competition.
For the past 10 years, the group has 
attracted families, students and car en-thusiasts from across the state to raise 
money for Stop! Children’s Cancer Inc.
Because of the car show, the club has 
donated about $67,000 to the pediatric 
cancer prevention and control charity over the past decade, said Tim Myers, 
president of Gainesville Street Rods.
Myers said 10 judges award 40 tro-
phies to the top cars and 16 special tro-
phies for the best Chevrolet, interior, paint and more. Car lovers raised mon-ey by charging a $20 fee to enter each car, truck or motorcycle in the judging.
High gas prices and other road-
blocks have knocked a few of last year’s competitors out of the show, but 123 vehicles entered the competition Saturday, he said.
The show was open to all types of 
cars, from a 1962 Corvette to a brand-new Mustang and everything in be-
tween.
Larry Wilson, 64, sat behind his 
spectre-master green 1968 Chevrolet 
pro-street Chevelle with a 468-cubic-inch Reher-Morrison engine, which is made to look like a street-racer.
Wilson has competed with his car 
for five years, but it was his first year at this show.
He bought the car at a swap meet 
in Texas. Since then, he has spent about $70,000 on it.
On top of his engine was an “anti-
theft device”: a couple sticks of fake dy-namite attached to a fake alarm clock.
“This is a lot more fun than golf,” he 
said. “And chicks love cars.”
Contact Ben Brasch at bbrasch@alliga-
tor.org.Car enthusiasts show off rides for charity
� ENGINEERING STUDENTS SHARED THEIR 
RESEARCH.
KATHERINE HAHN
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 25 students shared research on biomedical topics 
from contact lenses to cancer Friday at UF’s first Biomateri-
als Day.
Guest speakers offered insight into getting new products 
on the market, and undergraduate and graduate students 
presented research project posters in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom.    
Materials science and engineering senior Stefany Holguin won $100 for best undergraduate poster, and biomedical en-gineering graduate student Matthew Carstens won $100 in the graduate category.
The day was funded mainly by a $5,000 grant from the na-
tional Society of Biomaterials, said Evelyn Bracho-Sanchez, a 23-year-old biomedical engineering senior who helped orga-nize the event.           
Keynote speaker Larry Hench founded the biomaterials 
specialization at UF, said Society of Biomaterials faculty ad-viser Anthony Brennan. Hench invented Bioglass and is a UF professor.
Biomedical engineering graduate student Jamal Lewis, 
27, presented his research on developing a vaccine to pre-vent Type I diabetes. He said starting his own company is his ultimate goal.Biomaterials Day promotes research, business“This is a lot more fun than 
golf, and chicks love cars.”
Larry Wilson
competitor� MOTHER’S PUB & GRILL 
OPENED AT 7 A.M.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS   
Alligator Writer
Every hour on the hour, Me-
gan MacFarlane dropped a shot of 
Bailey’s Irish Cream and a shot of 
Jameson Irish Whiskey into a plas-
tic cup filled halfway with Guin-ness.
“Today, we open and close the 
bar,” MacFarlane, a 21-year-old UF anthropology senior said as she and her five friends clanked their cups.
They were among the St. Pat-
rick’s Day early-risers who hit pubs and bars for the flowing taps of Guinness and a cornucopia of Irish shots — and some Shepherd’s pie, 
but always between green beers.
They got to Mother’s Pub & 
Grill for the 7 a.m. opening to cel-
ebrate St. Patrick’s Day.
By 7:30 a.m., about 20 people 
were already at the pub — the majority of whom were, or at least claimed to be, of Irish descent.
“Today, everyone should take 
advantage of being a little Irish,” MacFarlane said.
The reason beer is extra popu-
lar on St. Patrick’s Day is because it falls during Lent, said Shauna Dixon, owner of Durty Nelly’s 
Irish Pub.
“In Ireland, it’s very common 
to give up alcohol for Lent,” she 
said. “St. Patrick’s Day is the one day during that time when we can 
drink.”
But St. Patrick’s Day wasn’t a 
day for culture in Jason Russler’s 
eyes. It was a day for drinking.
Russler, a 22-year-old water re-
sources and engineering graduate student, went to bed at 9 p.m. the night before to prepare for a day of guzzling green beer.
As the morning progressed, 
waitresses brought out more and more trays of sloshing kelly green 
concoctions.
Each time a new round arrived 
at Thomas Iacometta’s table, the 22-year-old advertising senior and 
a group of seven men chanted, “Everybody, everybody get f----d 
up,” in a rhythm that was nonex-
istent by 9 a.m.
Mother’s Security Manager 
Sean Wright walked around the 
bar, making sure rowdy patrons 
didn’t stand on tables.
“For some reason, people tend 
to get a little more stupid on St. Patrick’s Day,” Wright said. “It’s 
like it’s everyone’s 21st birthday.”
The pub served 100 car bombs by 9 a.m, said bartender Patrick 
Schaller, and about 1,000 during the course of the day. It also went 
through 15 kegs of beer.
MacFarlane was trading car 
bombs for water by 9:30 a.m. to 
pace herself.
“I have a blanket, pillow and a 
Gatorade in my car out front,” she said. “That way I can take a mid-day nap and get right back out here.”
Contact Adrianna Paidas at apai -
das@alligator.org.4, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
Dressed as a beer bottle, David Martinez, 24, finds an alternate way 
to drink the green beer served at Mother’s Pub & Grill on Saturday morning.
St. Patrick’s Day revelers started early
loCAl
BRITTANY BORSANYI
Alligator Contributing Writer
A recently created monthly 
event in downtown Gainesville 
has some business owners seeing an increase in downtown visitors.
First Friday , created by the 
Gainesville Downtown Owners and Tenants, aims to increase busi-ness in the downtown area by of-fering specials and prizes to visi-tors.
From 5:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. on 
the first Friday of every month, customers can get a booklet con-taining a list of participating busi-
nesses offering specials that night. 
When customers visit a business, they get a stamp in the booklet.
Customers exchange booklets 
for raffle tickets, and each business holds a raffle at 10 p.m.
Previous event participants 
have included Dragonfly , The Gelato Company , Maude’s Cafe, Sharab Lounge, Rockey’s Dueling Piano Bar and the Hippodrome State Theatre.
The idea came from Shawn 
Shepherd, president of GDOT and owner of V ellos Brickstreet Grill and Blue Water Bay. Shepherd said he’s seen First Friday events in St. Petersburg, Orlando and Tallahas-
see and he wanted to bring the concept to Gainesville.
“The goal is to bring a little 
more focus to downtown and 
show some of the changes that have been made over the past 12 months,” he said. “Downtown has grown about 30 to 40 percent with new restaurants, lounges and other businesses.”
Shepherd said the first First Fri-
day , which was in February , didn’t have many visitors. But they spread the word before the March event, he said, and 140 people came out.
Kara Winslow, director of de-
velopment at the Hippodrome, said First Fridays are a good way to raise awareness about how 
downtown isn’t scary.
Winslow said the Hippodrome 
gave away about 35 passports at 
the first event. This month, the the-ater gave away 30 passports within the first hour.
Randy Perez, a 22-year-old me-
chanical engineering senior, said he doesn’t go downtown very of-
ten because Midtown is more con-
venient for him. However, he said he would visit restaurants like Blue Water Bay on First Fridays, when it offers $3 draft beer.
“I would go downtown for din-
ner,” he said. “And I could have a cheap beer before going out later.”Downtown businesses 
host First Fridays eventsTYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
During a police chase Sat-
urday night, a Williston man 
left behind a trail of crack co-
caine, marijuana, a razor blade 
and a cellphone, police said.
Kebris T. Reynolds, 27, was 
charged with marijuana and 
cocaine possession with intent 
to sell and eluding a law en-
forcement officer, according to an arrest report. Reynolds was held at the Alachua County 
Jail on Sunday evening in lieu 
of a $60,000 bond.
While patrolling North-
west 16th Avenue at about 
8 p.m. Saturday, Gainesville 
Police officer Daniel Beans 
saw Reynolds speeding in a 
white Pontiac. With roads still slick from rain earlier that day, Reynolds abruptly turned left 
without using his signal, caus-
ing the driver of the car behind 
him to slam on the brakes, ac-cording to the report.
Beans followed Reynolds 
north on Northwest Fourth 
Street and switched his lights 
and siren on, but Reynolds sped away. Reynolds ran a stop sign and turned left 
onto Northwest 19th Avenue, 
where he parked in a yard before running, according to 
police.
Beans chased after Reyn-
olds. He caught him about one 
block west of where Reynolds 
parked his car and arrested 
him.
Beans found about 7.8 
grams of marijuana in Reyn-
olds’ pock-
ets before 
s e a r c h i n g 
the area. The officer uncovered 
about 15 
more grams 
of marijua-na and 13.6 
grams of crack cocaine, ac-
cording to police.
Beans also searched the 
Pontiac, which he said smelled 
like burned cannabis. In ad-dition, Beans found “a large 
amount” of gold and silver 
jewelry. According to the re-
port, Reynolds said it wasn’t his.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@
alligator.org.Man leaves trail of 
drugs during chase
Students Party opposes new stations
charging stations.
“We felt it was a need useful to students,” he 
said.  
A charging station is already in place in the UF 
Bookstore, but the bookstore funded that itself, 
Bonarrigo said.
Students Party Senator and Minority Leader 
Carly Wilson opposes the new stations. 
She said they are impractical and will not reach 
enough students to cover the cost.
“It’s a waste of students’ funds,” she said.When senators discussed the bill, she suggested 
adding more electrical outlets to the major study ar -
eas on campus instead.
Twenty-year-old health science junior Dierdre 
Lee thinks the charging stations are a great idea. She said her phone dies a lot, and she likes that 
the stations have multiple chargers.
Kasia Wallace, a 19-year-old health science soph-
omore, said she would probably use the new charg-ing stations. 
She said most of those locations are places where 
she could do something else, like study or work out, 
while her phone charged.
However, she questioned the cost.
“I would use it, but I think [the money] could be 
put toward better things,” she said.
Contact Samantha Shavell at sshavell@alligator.org.ChArging , from page 1reynolds
“We felt it was a need useful                    
to students.”
Andy Mason
former Senate PresidentSHELBY WEBB
Alligator Writer
The hat looked like it survived 
a war, and its surface was so full 
of bumps from shrapnel it felt like 
Braille. Near the top, a half-dollar-
sized hole was ripped in the frayed fabric.
But the hat and its owner, 
19-year-old Alex Rennert, are nei-ther veterans of war nor guardians 
of peace.
The hat was fired upon by 
Rennert’s friends and teammates in the Florida Gators Trap, Skeet and 
Sporting Club as congratulations 
for shooting his first perfect score in 
skeet — a sport where shooters try to hit a clay target ejected in a ran-dom direction.
“It’s kind of a weird tradition,” 
the UF aerospace engineering fresh-
man said, looking down at the tat-
tered collectible and grazing his fin-
gers across it.
Suddenly, Bo Pleasanton, one of 
Rennert’s teammates, snatched the 
hat out of Rennert’s hands. Pleas-anton walked 15 feet and put the 
hat on the barrel of his shotgun. De-
spite Rennert’s pleas, Pleasanton, an 
18-year-old UF forest resources and 
conservation freshman, pulled the trigger and ripped the hat in half. Pleasanton grinned and the rest 
of the group, except for Rennert, 
laughed.
Rennert sighed. Just another day 
at the shooting range.
The number of Americans using 
guns for recreation is on the rise, 
with 19 million citizens participat-
ing in target shooting last year, ac-cording to the National Shooting 
Sports Foundation website.
The Gator Skeet, Trap and Sport-
ing Club has seen this increase firsthand. There are 35 active mem-
bers this semester, up from the 17 members in the club’s first semester 
last fall, after it was co-founded by 
Rennert.Twelve club members compete, 
and of those, eight will travel to San Antonio, Texas, to compete in the Association of College Unions International’s 44th annual Intercol-
legiate Clay Target Championship 
from March 27 to April 1.
“It’s a fairly simple game to pick 
up, and the camaraderie among 
shooters is really welcoming,” 
Rennert said. “People are amazed 
that we’ll sit here and work with 
them just to promote the sport.”
Gator Skeet and Trap, the club 
where the team practices, is located at 5202 NE 46th Avenue. Club man-ager and team member Jake Ken-
nedy said his business saw a 600 
percent increase last year, with 2,000 new shooters. He said about 500 
people go to the range each week to 
shoot.
“Predominately it’s the older 
generation,” the 21-year-old UF business junior said. “But starting 
back in September, it’s been more 
college-age people.”
Robert Crow, the director of the 
National Sporting Clays Associa-
tion, said some people are learning 
about shooting sports from work.
“A lot of corporate charity events 
are using sporting clays as a differ -
ent avenue to get out instead of do-ing multiple golf outings,” Crow said. “That has introduced people who would not normally go out to 
a gun range.”
Kennedy agreed. He said many 
on-campus organizations and Greek chapters have recently been holding 
charity events, social outings and family weekends at the range.
UCF sociology professor James 
Wright has extensively studied gun ownership. He said the number of U.S. gun owners usually hovers between 40 and 50 percent, and 70 percent of those cite recreation as a reason for owning.
He also said that in the mid-
1980s, some scientists believed people with recreational guns could become violent. Wright said they 
believed the mere presence of a gun 
could make people trigger-happy, 
but he said the theory was dis-
proved later in the 1980s by psycho-logical research.
Rennert agreed that guns don’t 
make people violent, and he also said recreational shooting is safer 
than many contact sports.
“You’re more likely to get hurt 
playing golf,” Rennert said.
Rennert pulled his first trigger 
at 12, when his father took him on a Boy Scout trip. He didn’t know 
what to expect but found a natural 
ease aiming down the barrel.
“It felt right,” he said.He got a competition shotgun 
at 14. In 2006, he won his first state 
trapshooting championship in the 
under-15 division.
Since then, he’s won four more 
trap titles and was named overall state trap champion in 2009.
“I get fairly aggravated if I don’t 
shoot 99 out of 100,” Rennert said.
The Gators team competes in 
trap and skeet shooting.
Trapshooting involves a clay tar -
get flying out of one of four bunkers 
in a specific order: one top and low-er bunker on the left and right.
Skeet shooting is considered 
the most difficult shooting sport, Rennert said. Targets are ejected out 
of a small shack in the middle of 
the field and randomly thrown left, right or straight ahead.
Both games are typically scored 
out of 25; one point is awarded for each target hit.
The guns the team uses are not 
cheap. For a competition rifle, pric-es can vary from $1,000 to $20,000, 
with most costing about $4,000. 
Rennert’s gun cost $3,000, while 
Kennedy had the most expensive 
weapon of the group: a $5,000 shot-gun. Guns for the recreational user 
can cost between $500 and $1,000, 
Kennedy said.
Amir Keshavarz, another team 
member, said although the sport can be expensive, the friendships 
he’s made more than make up for 
the cost.
“The sport is definitely cost-
intensive,” Keshavarz said. “But the experiences you have and the 
people you meet makes it very ad-
dicting.”
Contact Shelby Webb at swebb@
alligator.org. MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
The Florida Gators Trap, Skeet and Sporting Team takes aim at a 
clay disk filled with orange powder at the Gator Skeet and Trap Club last Tuesday.
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Brothers Murdolph Jones, 7, and Malaqhi Jones, 5, play in bumper balls at the Gainesville 
Community Fest on Saturday afternoon.
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Writer
Isabella McKee, 9, sat on Roxy’s back, 
swaying and smiling as the Asian el-
ephant thumped along a circular path.
The ride was fun, she said, but a little 
smelly. And not at all scary.
“I felt relaxed since it’s a slow ani-
mal,” she said. “So, like, it wouldn’t run off.”
The inaugural Gainesville Commu -
nity Fest offered a variety of activities Saturday — including a chance to ride an elephant — for families, students and business owners.
The eclectic nature of the festival, 
which was similar to a farmers market, a craft fair and a children’s birthday party rolled into one, drew about 3,500 people to the Alachua County Fairgrounds.
Families meandered through a rain-
bow of tents. Children with snow-cone-stained lips tugged their parents’ hands, moving them through a plethora of play-things. Kids played laser tag, pet goats and made buttons, among other activi-ties.
Inside an exhibition hall, a few ven-
dors sold smoothies, flowers, muffins 
and other treats. About 70 organizations, 
such as the North Central Florida YMCA 
and Fun 4 Gator Kids, handed out pam-
phlets, pens and other goodies.
Adults sipped on Budweisers while 
they shopped at outdoor tents full of jew-elry, art and T-shirts set up by Gainesville 
business owners.
GainesvilleActivities.com sponsored 
the event to showcase nearby business-
es, organizations and nonprofits, said or -
ganization president and CEO Richard 
Dreher.
Dreher said he thought the event 
went well, even though a thunderstorm 
shut it down about an hour early.
Brian Scarborough, dad of 5-year-old 
Lucy, who had a purple tiara painted on 
her forehead, said he plans to bring his 
family again next year.
“Bounce houses and face paint,” he 
said. “What more could you want?”
Contact Julia Glum at jglum@alligator.
org.Inaugural Gainesville Community Fest includes exhibits, craftsMONDAY FEATURE
Happiness is a warm gun
“People are amazed that 
we’ll sit here and work with 
them just to promote the 
sport.”
Alex Rennert
member of Florida Gators TrapReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialMONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
Tuition increases won’t do UF any favors
Like many of you who arrived at UF in the fall of 
2008 or before, I’ve noticed a giant increase in the cost of attendance. Though tuition is cited as the 
reason, rising fees are also to blame for the fast-disap-pearing refunds from Bright Futures that used to be com-monplace.
Even with Prepaid tuition, you might get a few hun-
dred dollars a semester back in your bank account to help with the cost of living. Tuition increases of 15 percent or more per year prompt the question: What is a fair price to attend UF?
According to the UF Office for Student Financial Af-
fairs, the total tuition and fees for a freshman for this school year amounted to $5,700. At a place like Penn State, the total one-year cost for an in-state student is $15,984.
There are two ways to read this difference. The first 
is to be very grateful that we live in Florida, where most of us get some form of tuition assistance and the total cost of attendance is one-third that of a comparable state university. However, though the administration would 
prefer us to view it in this lens, one outrageous sticker 
price does not justify raising the cost for another.
In a fair and functioning free market for higher educa-
tion, many of the brightest and best students would not 
go to college at all because they would already have the 
necessary knowledge to get a job. Those who felt they needed four years of education so they could go into a technical field or those who felt they needed practice with critical thinking and writing skills would go to college.
However, everyone who is reasonably ambitious 
knows that he or she must go to college to have a chance. Even the famous examples of successful people who didn’t finish college, like Steve Jobs, Bill Gates and Mark 
Zuckerburg, spent a few semesters there. We as consum-
ers are faced with a product that we must buy, so we go to find the best value for our dollar in the market that exists.
The best value for our edu-
cation in the state of Florida is 
unequivocally UF. Though as 
tuition continues to rise, the value of UF compared to our cheaper counterparts that still 
offer great merit scholarships 
will likely pull away some of 
the best students that would have come here. When UF tuition was $3,000 per year and National Merit Scholars were given tuition plus a $4,000 per year stipend, it was 
a no-brainer for top students in the state to come to UF. 
Soon, the top merit scholarships at UF will not even cover all of tuition and fees, and schools such as the University of Central Florida and the University of Alabama con-
tinue to offer full scholarships to National Merit finalists. 
As we continue to raise our price, we will be risking the status of our university as one of the best college values in the Southeast.
Is it fair to charge students $6,000 per year instead of 
$3,000? It is probably ethical considering the state is cut-ting budgets like crazy and we all want to maintain pro-gram quality at UF.
The problem I have is that UF officials have been 
granted a power they could previously only dream of: the power to raise tuition to the national average.
UF will always be in Gainesville, which is much 
cheaper than the much of the South, and the South, in general, is much cheaper than the North. This idea that 
we should charge national-average tuition is actually a 
way they can charge much more on a cost of living-ad-justed basis.
We must keep UF an affordable place to get a degree, 
and that means 15-percent tuition increases must stop.
Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at UF. 
His column appears on Mondays.More To It
Elections not only        
indication of democracy
In a 2006 news release from the U.S. Department of Defense, 
former President George W. Bush was quoted as saying, “I 
hope the people of Afghanistan understand that as democ-
racy takes hold, you’re inspiring others.”
This was the philosophy of President Bush’s foreign policy: 
By bringing democracy to certain places in the Middle East, it 
will create a push for democracy in other authoritarian regimes.
And perhaps Bush was right to an extent, if the Arab Spring 
is any indication. Citizens in Egypt, Syria, Libya and elsewhere 
have risen up against their leaders in attempts to change their governments.
Whether these changes will look anything like democracy as 
we know it is debatable.
In the same release, Bush continued, “And that inspiration 
will cause others to demand their freedom.”
Before we can determine whether this “freedom” has spread 
to places around the Middle East, we must first determine whether we can say that, after a decade of war, the people of Afghanistan have this “freedom.”
First, it is important to recognize that freedom is not the 
equivalent of democracy. Democracy is merely a form of gov-ernment. It usually includes features such as representative leg-islatures and executive bodies, and the makeup of these bodies is determined by elections.
Afghanistan elected Hamid Karzai as its president in 2004 
and re-elected him in 2009. Because of these and other elections held in Afghanistan, one can say that the country shows signs of being a democracy.
There are, however, certain other conditions common among 
democratic governments. For instance, most democracies have 
high levels of press freedom, freedom of speech, due process 
and equal protection under the law.
It is this final condition that the government of Afghanistan 
seems to lack.
Guidelines issued by Afghanistan’s religious council were 
recently backed by President Karzai, which would “relegate women to the position of second-class citizens,” according to the UK’s The Independent.
The Ulema Council, the group that sponsored these guide-
lines, said in a statement, “Men are fundamental and women are secondary .” The guidelines went on to suggest that “men and 
women should not mix in work or education, and that women 
must have a male guardian when they travel,” according to The 
Independent.
This is not the first time that the rights of Afghan women 
have come into question.
In 2009, Karzai signed a law that legalized the rape of women 
by their husbands, according to the United Nations Develop-ment Fund for Women. These policies are not exactly what  one would expect to be coming from a “democratic” government.
While the goal of our mission in Afghanistan might have been 
to spread democracy, one must ask whether the fact that elec-tions were held is enough to proclaim that we have succeeded.
Today’s question: Do anti-smoking advertisements 
have any effect on you?
158 TOTAL VOTES37% YES
63% NOFriday’s question: Are you Irish? 
Travis Hornsby
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 7
The story you are about to read is true. The names have 
been changed to protect the innocent.
Spring Break antics never cease to amaze me. From 
inadvertent scoring to supreme intoxication to dancing with divorcees — I’ve heard it all. But this year, one story took the cake — which was disappointing because I was really looking forward to that cake.
While on a cruise, one of my close guy friends (herein re-
ferred to as Carol) slept with a conservative of the “South Car-olinian blonde who wants to become a lobbyist for the NRA” variety.
I thought about how odd it must be to sleep with someone 
who has different sociopolitical views than you. The more I thought about it, the more I realized social conservatives don’t really have a problem seducing liberals. How does something like that happen?
I spoke with some of my other liberal friends about their 
own journeys rightward. Turns out they’re very similar to Car-ol’s. What follows is what I learned.
You have to let the conservative come to you if you want 
to successfully seduce him or her. Don’t feel disconcerted if 
someone else is at his or her side; it’s usually a clingy room-
mate. (Personally, I think this means conservatives have taken to using the buddy system to preempt debauchery. I call the buddies chastity belts.)
When the conservative approaches, you must make sure 
the chastity belt does not pick up on the real reason for stop-ping by. While on the cruise, Carol was sitting at the bar with his bros when this blonde girl and her roommate made the ap-proach. We’ll call the interested one “Amanda” and her chas-
tity belt “Peaches.” Carol and Amanda engaged in some small 
talk, which only got smaller as Amanda kept throwing out 
topic after lame topic, trying to keep the conversation alive.
Carol wondered why Amanda was 
doing this but then saw that if the con-versation died, Peaches would recog-nize Amanda was there for something Jesus wouldn’t be and lead her away. 
It came time to go, but Carol told the 
two of them he’d be on the pool deck later that night, since there was going to be a DJ.
The next step requires indirectly reminding the conserva-
tive of the reason he or she approached in the ﬁ  rst place: your body. At the event that night, Carol took the opportunity to strip down to his boxers — since he was wearing jeans and a tie-dyed shirt — and go for a swim. When he got out, suave as 
hell, he asked Amanda if she could lend him a towel. She said 
there was one in her room he could use.
On the way there, Amanda correctly postulated that Carol 
was a social liberal since he was wearing a tie-dyed shirt on the 
pool deck, which he’d accidentally left behind. She told him 
she was from South Carolina and wants to become a lobbyist for the NRA.
When they got in the room, she threw him a towel and a 
College Republicans T-shirt. Next thing you know, she was 
straddling him and shouting — I kid you not — “I’m going to 
f**k the liberal right out of you!”
Afterward, Carol didn’t really want to see her again and 
was able to avoid her.
None of my friends advised making a habit of this. Actually 
going through with seducing a member of the opposite sect can prove dangerous.
Conservatives take their ideologies so seriously that break-
ing with them sometimes summons a crazy that comes YOLO-
ing up out of the underworld.
To take a phrase out of Boy Scout Handbook, “Be pre-
pared.”
Chip Skambis is an English and telecommunication junior at 
UF. His column appears on Mondays.
Often, the controversy that surrounds Student 
Government overshadows the good things that get done. While the furor accompanying the re-
cent election season raged on, a group of activists and student senators quietly worked on a resolution that is 
set to have a positive impact on The Gator Nation.
The resolution urges the City of Gainesville to com-
ply with the demands of local bus drivers represented by 
the Amalgamated Transit Union 1579 in their ongoing contract negotiations. Our bus drivers are facing stag-nant wages, cuts to their pensions and unfair grievance procedures. Perhaps the most egregious encroachment upon their rights is the practice of forced overtime. The city refuses to hire more workers, forcing our bus drivers 
into a situation where they need to drive extra routes to 
keep their jobs, even if they are exhausted. Forcing driv-ers to work while they are tired is not only a labor rights issue, but a safety issue for everyone on campus.
On Tuesday night, when student senators voted 
unanimously in favor of this resolution, they took a mas-sive step toward solving this problem. This statement of support for the bus drivers adds to the mounting public pressure on the city to do the right thing and accept the 
bus drivers’ demands. Local labor unions have already 
issued statements of solidarity with the Amalgamated Transit Union, while community organizers with Fight Back Florida have been lobbying city commissioners. On campus, Students for a Democratic Society has collected thousands of signatures and banked hundreds of phone calls from outraged students. With an ofﬁ  cial mandate from the Student Body, there is perhaps only one per-son left on campus to convince: President Machen.
Make no mistake, a state-
ment of support from our ad-ministration would almost cer-
tainly guarantee that the bus drivers came out of their negotiations with a fair contract. UF has tremendous inﬂ  uence over the RTS situation. Students comprise 75 percent of the riders, and we pay 51 percent of the trans-portation costs. With enough pressure from UF, the city will be left with no choice but to offer our bus drivers a contract addressing their grievances. Students have been doing their part, but we need our administration to stand with us.
This is why SDS was disappointed when, after pre-
senting thousands of signatures and making hundreds of calls, Machen declined to support bus drivers and their requests for a safer and efﬁ  cient transport system. As the head of The Gator Nation, President Machen has an obligation to protect the well-being of our bus driv-ers and the safety of our students. We are asking him to reconsider his stance on this and issue a strong support statement for our local bus drivers. At the very least, 
President Machen should sit down with drivers and stu-
dents to hear their concerns.
Students  interested in getting involved with the 
campaign should come to an SDS meeting at 6:30 p.m. on Mondays in Anderson Hall, Room 32.
Conor Munro is a history and economics sophomore at 
UF . His is the lead organizer for Students for a Democratic Society.Machen should support bus driversColumnHooking up with      
opposite sects not   advised, but possibleColumn
Conor Munro
Speaking Out
Chip Skambis
opinions@alligator.orgColumnist applies simulated sense of past he 
argues against
First, I would like to compliment Luke Bailey’s ongo-
ing commitment to his conservative values. He always 
represents a position that favors precedence, tradition and hesitance. For him, truly the past is a lost treasure.
I ﬁ  nd it particularly ironic, then, that Bailey’s latest 
column, “Modern world has become one of ‘fakery ,’” tends toward rather postmodern philosophical meth-ods. Bailey’s opening conceit invokes the imaginary ap-paratus that is Disney World against the proper, histori-cal castle, in order to illustrate the “real gilded society” in which we now live as “faux-people.” In some ways, Bailey is quite correct. The Disney World he describes is similar to the “hyper-real” Disneyland Jean Baudrillard references in “Simulation and Simulacra.” It is a state of 
consciousness in which reality cannot be separated from 
simulations of reality.
Nor is this necessarily problematic. If, in hyperreality , 
the simulation overtakes the real, eventually the simula-tion is reality. I do not intend on Disney World or con-sumerism to be the simulated reality of the future. It is 
possible, instead, for a new program to arise.
In this sense, I depart fully from Bailey. He vests in 
the past far too romantic a notion: nostalgia for a time 
he’s never experienced. He selects the symbol of the au-thentic past as a castle. Is there a more perfect image of hierarchy, patriarchy, undemocratic principles and im-perial solitude? The castle, after all, requires a king.
Furthermore, Bailey says we are a people that do asi-
nine things in the eyes of our ancestors. Indeed, ﬂ  ight, let 
alone space ﬂ  ight, would have been truly asinine to our 
forebears. Fire, too, was once cutting-edge technology.
Beyond Bailey’s Luddite principles, I ﬁ  nd it most in-
teresting that he himself, the one who so clearly judges authenticity and propriety, falls victim to hyperreality. In order to demonstrate, as the hoary Bailey patriarch puts it, “real life,” we are directed to a contemporary ﬁ  lm. I cannot help but think Bailey’s perceived sense of the past is as simulated as the theme park he rails against.
Ryan Fenton
UF alumnusLetter to the Editor8, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Renee Shifrin-Tannenholtz gets her head shaved on the bandshell of Flavet Field on                   
Friday afternoon for the Freshman Leadership Council’s first annual St. Baldrick’s Day event. Shifrin-Tannenholtz raised $1,831 for children’s cancer research.
on c AmpuS
CAITLIN HARTLEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Renee Shifrin-Tannenholtz grinned ear 
to ear as she had her head shaved in front 
of a crowd of about 115 people.
Fourteen others joined Shifrin-Tannen-
holtz on Flavet Field on Friday , shedding their locks to raise money for children with cancer as part of the Freshman Leadership 
Council’s St. Baldrick’s Day event.
St. Baldrick’s Foundation is a volunteer-
driven charity that supports and raises 
money for childhood cancer research.
Friday’s event raised $6,295 through 15 
“shavees” who were sponsored to have their hair cut. Shavees participated indi-vidually and in teams.
The Freshman Leadership Council had 
the most participants on its team and raised the most money — $4,305.
Shifrin-Tannenholtz, 44, was one of the 
few women who signed up to have her head shaved. 
She raised $1,831, more than any other 
participant.
“People say I’m so brave for doing this,” Shifrin-Tannenholtz said, “but the kids fighting cancer, they’re the ones that are brave. I’m just getting a haircut.”
Dr. William B. Slayton, associate profes-
sor of pediatrics in UF’s division of hema-tology and oncology , treats cancer patients who range in age from newborns to young adults.
“The research that’s funded by groups 
like St. Baldricks Foundation is critical in terms of making lives better for people who 
might not have easy cures,” Slayton said.
Political science freshman Leigh Robert-
son, 19, organized St. Baldrick’s Day events 
three years in a row at Park Vista High School in Lake Worth.
She organized Friday’s event, which she 
said was the biggest one she’s put on.
“Bald is in!” Robertson said.Volunteers shave heads in support of cure for children’s cancer
“People say I’m so brave for 
doing this, but the kids fighting 
cancer, they’re the ones that are 
brave.”
Renee Shifrin-Tannenholtz
St. Baldrick’s foundation volunteer BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
Come Get LUCKY at LEX…….
OPEN HOUSE THIS SAT!!!
12-5pm
Come view All-Inclusive private suites
Free upgrade to a 3/3 !!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
Raffle for a $100 Gift Card!!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1THE POLOS
NOW-ROOMATE MATCHING on 3/3’s
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST.
WE DO SEMISTER LEASING
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    
9-28-12-85-1
Furn. 1BR/1BA in a 4/4 with 3 other girls.
$350/mo. utilities included, Countryside Condos. avl. Mar 1. Jim -cell 305-664-1680, 
work 305-852-4044.   3-27-12-10-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED 3BR/BR Apt Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-25-12-72-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave. Across from Law School
$1650 - Special spring rate. 4BR/2BA
W/D, DW, Cent AC/Heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-30-12-53-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2BR/1BA Sun Key units starting at $550
2BR/1.5BA Sun Harbor units starting at $575
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    3-30-12-52-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $625/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   4-4-12-45-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   3-30-12-44-2
Trend's Student Rentals of the Month!
Biven's North - Huge 3BR Lakefront
The Lofts - 3BR condo on Univ Ave
Near Law School - 3/2 1,907 sf
Text "Trend" to 313131
Trend4Rent.com
4-25-74-2SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor units $525
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
1bed/1bath units starting at $475
2bed/2bath units starting at $550
Reduced Deposits for Full Time Grads!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720/352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced 
large backyard, fireplace. Available $850/mo. 
Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 
376-6183. 1BR/BA Suite Also Avail $375/mo   
3-22-11-26-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com  
3-19-11-50-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
3 & 4 bedroom upgraded apartments
*$0 to sign $100 gift card/rent credit
Call today spaces going fast!
Thecrossingatsantafe.com 379.9300
4-25-12-43-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099       3-27-12-20-2
1.5 miles to UF in NW Gville. Luxury 2bd/2ba 
condo in small community: walk-in closets, W/D, vaulted ceilings, balcony, 1410 sqft. Built 2006. $900/month. Pets OK. 359-1112 or katewallis83@yahoo.com. Avail. March 1    3-21-12-15-2.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings 
for Vets who qualify under Section 8 
Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun -
dry 372-3783    3-29-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    3-29-
12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   3-29-12-20-2
Very vice 3/3 Rockwood $800/m
lg bedroom, closet and nice bath
Close to UF, I-75 and bus routes
all appliance inc(washer & dryer)
Call Jared at (941)737-6997   3-19-12-12-2
4BR/4BA Beautifully Renovated condo spa-
cious kitchen, living area, and bedrooms par-
tially furnished. W/D in unit. Great bus rts ten 
min to UF & shopping. $325/ room. Must rent 
all rooms at same time. Call(941)-232-1960    
4-13-12-31-2
Cute HOUSES for Aug 1
View at www.10houses.com
Cent H/A, W/D provided
Quiet Areas Bike to UF
352-316-0154 nancy@10houses.com   3-22-
12-10-2
DUCKPOND DUPLEX $700- big oak tree, 
UF near, busline, carport, immaculate, carpet, 
2br/1ba, WD hookup, CHA, fans, DW, burglar 
bars, postj@bellsouth.net; 352 284 3873; 352 
376 0080. Prefer grads/quiet adults.   4-4-12-
19-2
3BR/2BA CHARMING 1950's HOUSE
Walk/bike to UF. Small pet ok. W/D, $1295/mo. Avail August 1st.OPEN HOUSE March 17th, 11:00am - 3:00pm. 352-371-0601   410 NW 26th St.    3-23-12-10-2
Beautiful 2-story house. 2.5 miles from UF. 
5BR/2.5BA 2400sq.ft. on large treed lot. Very quiet neighbrhd. H/W & tile floors, ceil-ing fans, W/D, ref, stove, dishwasher. $1600/mo & security deposit. 727-686-1404    3-20-12-5-2
3 Bed House $795/mo available now &
Aug. Central AC, wooden floors, w/d
hook-ups, and a vintage style walking
distance to campus and downtown.
University Ave & NW 8th st area. By Leo
706 Call now! 352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
3-27-12-10-2
***WALK OR BIKE TO UF ***
3/2 vintage home or 2/2 apt includes parking, 
available August 2012. Call Carolyn 352-538-3556 or email alligatoralley@cox.net4-10-12-20-2
2BR/2.5BA LUXURY CONDO
1/2 mile from campus. On busline. Free in-
ternet. W/D, clubhouse. $825/mo. Call 352-332-8841    3-27-12-10-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
               ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100               ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500               ●/3 house 3514 nw 7 pl $1500               ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15003-20-12-5-2
EXCELLENT SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
3BR/2BA & 4BR/3BA. Close to UF.630 NW 34th Terr / 611 NW 36th Terr /3404 NW 7th Pl. Call Mike 352-665-7316 Pets OK.   4-12-12-20-2TIRED OF COMPLEX LIVING?
Quite, 2BR/2BA, Includes, W/D, HSInternet, 
943SF, MUST SEE. Loc: off SW 34th St, close to shopping, UF, VA, Vet School/ RTS  Bus Rt 36 Stops at complex about every 20 
Min. ONLY A FEW LEFT FOR FALL CALL 
FOR TOUR TODAY (352) 335-5424   3-23-
5-2
LOOKING FOR 5/BR/3BA FOR FALL/
GREAT DEAL FOR GROUP LIVING.Located 
just off SW34th Close to shopping, Shands, 
VA, Vet School, UF $2500M/JUST$500/Per 
Bedroom CALL FOR TOUR TODAY (352) 
335-5424   3-23-5-2
FOR FALL/3Bd/2Ba house large fenced yard 
(Great for Pets) Located just off SW 34th St
Close to shopping, Shands, VA, Vet School, 
UF $1575/month,
CALL FOR TOUR TODAY
(352)335-5424   3-23-5-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com   
3-30-12-10-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Short-term sublease until (now-July) Hunters 
Crossing complex (NW G'ville Millhopper) 
2BR/2FB + Den, patio, cathedral ceilings, 
walk in closets, W/D connect (rentals avail-
able), garage optional, townhouse style, 
(separate entrance) exercise gym, pool, hot 
tub, sauna, racquet ball-basketball-tennis 
courts, sand volleyball, playground! Pets al-
lowed (2 pet maximum). No limit on size of 
pets. $911 saving $239 (regular lease amount is $1,150). www.hunterscrossing.com for pic-
tures; 352-262-5899 or sisterkatrina@yahoo   
3-19-12-4-3
University House Summer Sublease
$550/mo - 1BR/1BA in a 3BR/3BAAll inclusive and fully furnished
6 blocks to UF
Contact 941-286-8316   3-19-4-3DON’T WAIT
TO PLACE 
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 25th.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT 
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Two bedroom two bath apartment available 
for sublease available on April 1 2012 at 
Stoneridge Apartments For information call 
Carlos 954-732-3962 or Jorge 954-594-9878    
3-23-12-5-3
$399 Furnished Sublease: May 2012/
July 2012 (The Landings) (Electric/Water 
Included; 1bed/1 bath in a 3 bed/3 bath)
Contact Corey at corey118@gmail.com or at 
(347) 756-9688    3-23-12-5-3
Perfect sublease till July.
It's a 2/2 Boardwalk apt. for $735/month + 
deposit. Call (352)278-5268.   3-21-3-3
Summer sublease $603 (May-August) at 
Looking Glass Apartments (one block from library west!) 1br/1ba in 3br/3ba, fully fur-nished room with washer/dryer in apt.email: elisemorales0492@yahoo.comcell:786-564-3922   3-20-12-2-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-25-72-4
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST.
WE DO SEMISTER LEASING
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    
9-28-12-85-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MO
cable, internet, utilities, pool+ more
beautifully renovated, on bus route,  
Call 352  262-2871, Available 6/1/12    4-11-
12-20-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail 
$1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         
4-25-72-6
 MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in 
bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory Refurbished
Check Us Out Before You Buy!!
Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL
352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com
4-25-11-99-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-
73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-15-58-11
2009 - BASH SCOOTERAs-is. $485 firm.
Call 352-870-2438    3-20-12-3-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-
72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
97 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-1201 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $6999
02 TOYOTA CAMRY $6999
04 CHEVY ASTRO $6999
352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
04 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $7999
02 HONDA ODYSSEY $7999
01 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999
352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,999
06 SATURN ION $11,999
07 FORD MUSTANG $12,999
352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
1999 Volvo V70 Wagon, Runs and drives 
great, well maintained with all scheduled maintenance/oil changes, Ice cold A/C, New tires with recent oil change and alignment 157K $3500.00 OBO. 352-214-3741   3-19-11-5-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  
4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  3-23-12-74-13
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
12, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
Daytime Advertising 
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator 
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be available to work Summer C.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are wel -
come to reapply with current schedule. EOE
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
!!ATTN SMOKERS!! You're needed to par-
ticipate in a study conducted by the UF Smoking Lab assessing effects of exercise on cravings, withdrawal, and/or smoking. Compensation provided!! Call 336-406-3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    3-23-19-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    3-20-12-14-14
ATTORNEY WITH MINIMUM TWO YEARS 
EXPERIENCE IN ESTATE PLANNING & BUSINESS LAW wanted for prestigious Sarasota law firm. Please send resume to sarasotalaw@yahoo.com    4-11-12-30-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and Reliable 371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G    3-30-17-14Quality child caring center is looking for dedi -
cated people who love working with children. 
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA 
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 
377-2290 or 373-1481    3-21-12-10-14
Need Live In Caregiver for elderly man in 
SW Gainesville. Must be able to pass a back 
ground check (no criminal history) and a drug 
screen. Compensation: Room/board, small 
salary, paid vacation, most weekends and 
evenings off, and other negotiable compen -
sation. Call: 352-226-5265    3-19-12-5-14
Seeking a personal assistant.i.e., miscella -
neous errands, phone calls, resolving minor 
issues, mailings, bill payment and general 
organizing.You will be paid $550/week send 
your resume to :lin.da2@aol.com 786-519-
3572    3-27-12-10-14
Andrea is leaving to get married. Busy 
law firm seeks F/T admin/legal assistant. 
Dependable w/great typing and proofreading 
skills. Exp. w/ Word & Excel. Spanish speak-
ing a plus! Pay DOE. Send resume to
carrillolawoffice@gmail.com     3-27-10-14
Sedentary adults needed to participate 
in a study conducted by the UF Get Up 
and Go Initiative assessing the accuracy 
& ease of use of an advanced pedometer. 
COMPENSATION provided! Call 336-406-
3706 or email fitbit10000@gmail.com   3-23-
8-14
FISH LOVERS WANTED! Excellent sales 
opportunity for someone who loves tropical 
fish and likes to work with people. Training 
program, advancement possibilities, flex-
ible hours. Work in a clean modern store 
with great people. Bring resume with ref-
erences to Aquatropics, 2100 SW34th 
Street,Gainesville.   3-22-12-7-14
WAITPERSONS
Evenings & weekends. Experienced & 
friendly. Apply in person, NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St.   3-20-12-5-14
Students needed for part-time sales, $10-
$12/hr., no experience required, flexible schedules, must have good communication skills, located in Creekside Mall, call Mike 352-533-2201   3-27-10-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   3-27-10-14
Volunteer for Money
Participants needed for one-hour focus group. Must be 18 years or older and attend UF.  We want your perspective on mental health. Completely CONFIDENTIAL. Will receive $20 UF Bookstore gift card and free pizza. Email GatorWellProjects@mail.ufl.edu with subject line Focus Group Volunteer.   3-30-12-14
Programmer Needed
Dilinky, Inc. is looking for an individual to 
create and program a website. Contact Us 
at Help@Dilinky.com.
3-23-5-14
Info Tech, Inc. - Info Tech, Inc. is a mar-
ket leader in software for infrastructure 
construction management. Please visit 
our website to apply for open positions:
http://www.infotechfl.com/apply
3-21-12-5-14
Marketing Project Manager wanted for 
Gainesville web design company. Web de-sign/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    3-23-12-7-14
One serious hardworking and trustworthy UF 
student. Gen or const help, exp w/electrical & plumbing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy lifting. Familiar w/ Sketchup or AutoCAD. PT flex hrs. $7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183     3-19-12-3-14LPN (FT) needed for FP Clinic on eastside 
of Gainesville. Great Pay! Fax Resume 352 
371 3320 or send to ocolasante@yahoo.com   
3-23-12-5-14
MD/DO (FT or PT) needed for FP CL on 
eastside of Gainesville. Office Svcs only. 
Need FL Lic and Dea#. Exc Salary. CV to 
ocolasante@yahoo.com/fax 352 371 3320   
3-23-12-5-14
352 Media Group is seeking a part-time 
Network Support Technician. Experience 
w/programming & web technologies is pre-
ferred. Email resume to hr@352media.com   
3-27-12-7-14
Telescope Pictures
Hiring for 75+ Beach Photographer Positions!
Ocean City, MD - Virginia - Beach, VA - 
Panama City Beach, FL
Live and work at the beach this summer!
Earn $10,000+ and get a free tan!
Housing and paid internships available!
Apply today; mytelescopepictures.com
We work hard, have fun, and
take care of our employees!
3-21-12-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    3-23-12-20-15
NEED A PASSPORT?
US Passport Acceptance Facility3030 Radio Road across fromLakeside Residential Complex9am-3pm, M-F, Ph 352-392-1134    3-20-12-5-15HAPPY HOUR @ CHAMPAGNE SALON
$10 Eyebrow Threading
1109 W. University Ave. 215-2873   3-20-5-
20
GUNSHOW - MARCH 24 & 25
Alachua County Fair Grounds2900 NE 39th Ave. (near the airport)
Sat 9 - 4 & Sun 9 - 3. Admission $7
Info: Cliffhangers 386-375-6114    3-23-12-
5-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
AMERICAN BULLDOG PUPS
UKC Registered. Top bloodlines. 1M, 1F. White w/spots. $200 each. 386-362-2451 ,gatorlandkennels@windstream.net   3-21-12-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Special February and March Rates- $99 
Advanced Cardiac Life Support and $35 Basic 
Life Support(BLS)(CPR).American Heart 
Association Card issued. Training Gators for 
15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.    
3-20-12-18-16
HYPNOSIS $23.95
quit smoking, diet, sleep better, stress, memory improvement, and test anxiety. go to www.hypnosisclassestoday.com for info and pre-pay    3-21-12-10-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Best religion? No religion!
Superb Bible instructions:versebyverseministry.orgJust click and listen.     3-30-10-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
UF Announces Basketball Ticket Information
Tickets for this week’s West regional go on sale at 
8:30 a.m. today. Tickets are $180 and include access to all three games in the regional. More Content Online
For extended coverage of the UF men’s tennis 
team’s upcoming match against USC and the UF golf teams, please visit alligatorSports.org.AP Photo
Coach Amanda Butler has the ninth-seeded Gators in the second round of the NCAA Tournament after Florida’s 70-65 win against eighth-seeded Ohio State. UF will face undefeated Baylor on Tuesday. 
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Florida can now turn its focus to 
Brittney Griner and No. 1 Baylor.
The Gators will face the nation’s 
top team Tuesday after winning 
their first NCAA Tournament game since 2009.
“Brittney Griner is phenom-
enal,” assistant coach Brenda Mock Kirkpatrick said. “She’s almost an unstoppable machine.”
Florida (20-12) will take on Gri-
ner, the Big 12 Player of the Year, 
after shutting down Ohio State’s Sa-
mantha Prahalis, the Big Ten Player of the Year. The ninth-seeded Gators held Prahalis to just nine points and 
three assists in a 70-65 win against 
the eighth-seeded Buckeyes on Sun-day in Bowling Green, Ohio.
Prahalis averaged 20.1 points 
and 6.4 assists per game prior to the 
NCAA Tournament, but Florida’s 
defense shut her down after half-time, causing her to miss all six sec-ond-half shots.
“We knew that she was going 
to try to take over the game,” Kirk-patrick said. “Just the feeling in our kids’ minds was, ‘Look, [Prahalis] is 
going to come out on fire. We know 
we’re going to have to check her.’”
Shutting down Prahalis helped 
minimize the effect of Buckeyes 
guard Tayler Hill, who led the Big 
Ten in scoring by averaging 20.3 points per game in the regular sea-son.
Hill scored a game-high 23 
points on 9-of-15 shooting but dis-appeared down the stretch with just four points in the game’s final nine minutes.
“They have two kids that average 
over 20 points, and we wanted to fo-cus on them a little bit more than we normally just single out a couple of players on a particular team,” Kirk-
patrick said.
Hill scored her final four points 
and picked up an assist on a late 8-3 
run by Ohio State that cut Florida’s Florida shuts down Big Ten POY, will face top seed Baylor next
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
OMAHA, Neb. — For 10 exhilarating 
days last year, Mike Rosario watched 
from afar as his teammates made a deep run in the NCAA Tournament.
Though he didn’t travel with the 
Gators and was redshirting a season after transferring from Rutgers, seeing his teammates pile up victories late in March was something Rosario had al-ways dreamed of.
He watched on TV as his fellow 
Gators coasted to a pair of early-round wins and ended BYU’s season in a Sweet 16 nail-biter. The next round, however, 
Florida’s ride through The Big Dance 
stopped abruptly in an Elite Eight over -
time loss to Butler. 
This season and this team feel differ -
ent to Rosario. 
Now eligible, he was on the court 
for both of UF’s double-digit wins in Omaha, Neb., and scored 12 points off the bench Sunday during Florida’s 84-50 third-round win against No. 15 seed 
Norfolk State. 
After helping the Gators rack up their 
two largest NCAA Tournament victo-
ries since the 2006-2007 national champi-onship season, Rosario said he believes he and his teammates are on pace for an even bigger run than last year.
“We have more depth now and we 
can really make a big jump,” Rosario said. “We just have to stay 
focused on the task at 
hand.”
While their transi-
tion into the postsea-son has been anything but smooth — Florida lost four of its last five 
to remove some luster from its Selec-tion Sunday resume — Rosario believes 
playing tournament-caliber teams this 
season has given the Gators an edge in single-elimination games.
“We went up against the best of the Rosario enjoying different 
viewpoint this time aroundEND OF GREGULATION
OMAHA, Neb.
Maybe Florida was just playing pos-
sum all season long. 
The Gators were no better than 
average defensively all year, but they’ve turned it on when it matters most.  
On Friday, UF held Virginia to just 0.71 
points per possession, by far the lowest the 
Cavaliers have scored in a game this sea-
son. 
Florida put on a similar display Sunday 
against Norfolk State, holding the upstart Spartans to just .59 points per possession 
before halftime. That figure helped UF put 
Norfolk in an impossibly large 28-point hole. 
If UF’s commitment to defense holds 
and the Gators maintain the kind of inten-sity they’ve shown in the first two NCAA Tournament games, this team has what it takes to make a run at a national title. 
The Gators entered the Tournament with 
the classic profile of a team ripe to be upset in the early rounds. 
Three-reliant Florida ranked third in 
the nation in offensive efficiency and just 89th in defensive ef-ficiency coming into Sunday, according to KenPom.com. 
That profile is 
eerily similar to the trio of top-four seeds that got knocked off 
in the Tournament’s 
opening round. 
Two-seed Duke (11th in offense, 66th 
in defense), two-seed Missouri (first in 
offense, 116th in defense) and four-seed 
Michigan (21st in offense, 59th in defense) 
were all three-reliant throughout the year, and each was handed a devastating open-ing-round upset. 
So how did Florida avoid the fate of it’s 
oddly similar counterparts? 
Defense. In one respect, the sudden emergence 
was highly unlikely. 
The five games after Florida lost Will 
Yeguete for the season with a broken foot were five of UF’s seven worst of the season Defense emerges at key time 
to help spur pair of blowouts
Greg Luca
twitter: @greglucasEE W-HOOPs, PAGE 15
sEE ROs ARIO, PAGE 15
sEE GREG, PAGE 15“[Brittney Griner is] 
almost an unstoppable 
machine.”
Brenda Mock Kirkpatrick
UF assistant coach
Rosario
Quotable
“Not far enough. I want four more.” (on Florida’s win to 
earn berth in Sweet 16)
Patric Young  
UF center
14, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Freshmen Taylor Gushue (17) and Casey Turgeon (2) each hit solo 
home runs in Florida’s 8-2 win against Vanderbilt on Sunday.
UF BASeBALL
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
The No. 1 baseball team in the country started four 
freshmen in its lineup Sunday afternoon. This wasn’t 
an exhibition or a midweek pushover — it was Florida 
against Vanderbilt with a sweep in the opening week-
end of Southeastern Conference play on the line. 
No one missed a beat. “It’s great that we can all be a part of this team and 
make an impact,” freshman first baseman Taylor Gush-ue said. “It’s just humbling that we get to do that.”
Florida’s lineup has become a running list of play-
ers who can contribute in a big way on any given day, and that was no different Sunday when the Gators (19-
1, 3-0 SEC) overpowered the Commodores 8-2. 
If the game was ever in doubt, it was early — very 
early. Vanderbilt (7-13, 0-3 SEC) had runners on first 
and third with one out in the top of the first before 
sophomore starter Jonathon Crawford fed Commo-
dores shortstop Anthony Gomez a full-count, two-seam fastball that Gomez rolled into a 6-4-3 double play . 
“[Crawford is] starting to believe that he’s pretty 
good, and obviously we’re going to need him,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “When we get (Karsten) Whitson back, I feel really good about our pitching staff.”
It was the fifth inning by the time Vanderbilt got 
another baserunner in scoring position. Florida led 4-0 and Crawford was nearing the end of his scoreless five-inning outing — and still throwing 94 mph. 
For offensive support, he needed to look no further 
than a couple of his young teammates. Freshmen in-fielders Gushue, Casey Turgeon and Josh Tobias all had hits in the game’s first three innings. Gushue opened 
the scoring in the second with a solo homer that sailed 
over the right-field McKethan Stadium video board. After senior Preston Tucker notched his eighth long ball of the year in the third, Turgeon added Florida’s third blast of the game to lead off the fifth. 
“I’ll never be a power hitter,” the 5-foot-9, 165-pound 
second baseman said. “I’ll go up there looking for a good pitch and put the best swing I can on it.”
Florida’s Nos. 1-5 hitters complemented the fresh-
man prowess by all recording an RBI against Vander -
bilt. The Commodores started 2011 first-round pick Tyler Beede, who has now begun his college career 0-3 
with a 7.71 ERA after being the only first-round pick to 
turn down the majors last year. 
Junior relievers Steven Rodriguez and Austin Mad-
dox weren’t at their best for Florida but finished out the 
game’s final four innings. Maddox ended a streak of 20 
appearances without giving up a run when he allowed an RBI single to second baseman Andrew Harris in the ninth.
Florida did not commit an error all weekend and 
only walked three batters en route to defeating Van-derbilt by a combined score of 23-5. 
“We’re playing really well right now, solid de-
fense,” Gushue said. “I’m proud of everybody that’s 
been a part of it.”
The lone dark spot came on Friday night when se-
nior center fielder Tyler Thompson injured his right 
knee while rounding first. O’Sullivan announced 
Sunday that Thompson has a torn ACL and will meet 
with doctors on Tuesday to decide the best option for treatment. Immediate plans have freshman Justin Sha-fer starting in left with senior Daniel Pigott shifting to center. 
“I feel terrible,” O’Sullivan said. “He’s worked aw-
fully hard to put himself in a great position, but we’ll get together on Tuesday and see what all of our options are.”Freshmen lead sweep of Vanderbilt
“I’ll never be a power hitter. I’ll go up 
there looking for a good pitch and put the 
best swing I can on it.”
Casey Turgeon
UF second basemanJunior Kenny Boynton led all 
scorers with 20 points on 7-of-
12 shooting after scoring just 10 
points combined in Florida’s past 
two games. 
His biggest contribution may 
have come on the glass, as the 
6-foot-2 guard pulled down a 
career-high eight rebounds, one of three Gators to reach that mark Sunday. 
“I’ve never seen him rebound 
like that before,” center Patric Young said. “His rebounding probably got him a little fired up. Going in there and just tearing one down one time, he sees how 
it feels to be a big man and go in 
there and rip one down.”
Young finished with just six 
points and four boards, play-ing 26 minutes. But his defense 
on Norfolk State center Kyle 
O’Quinn helped hold the Spar -
tans big man to just four points and three boards one game after 
he exploded for 26 and 14 against 
Missouri. 
Young said Florida wanted no part of helping Norfolk State con-tinue its Cinderella story. 
“We came into this game with 
a mindset knowing that everyone 
was going to be 
cheering for the Cinderella team. Everyone is all about that: the 
underdog sto-
ry,” he said. “Ev-eryone wants to see how far they 
can go — the George Masons, the VCUs, the teams like that. 
“We don’t want to be a part of that team’s run. We’ve just got to go out from the gate and let them know that we’re not here to play around.”
But both Young and reserve 
guard Mike Rosario, who con-tributed 12 points and two key offensive rebounds off the bench, said the Gators will not be satis-
fied with a trip to the Sweet 16. 
“We want more and want to 
keep going as far as we can,” Ro-
sario said.
For the immediate future, 
more means No. 3 seed Mar -
quette, which will be waiting for Florida in Phoenix in the West regional semifinals after beating No. 6 seed Murray State on Sat-urday. 
“It feels like we haven’t really 
accomplished anything yet. We’d like to go further,” Young said. “We’re here to win. We’re here to cut down nets. We’re here to not 
just make it to the tournament. 
“We’re coming here to finish 
it strong, the best way we can, 
hopefully all the way to the end 
with a championship.”
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@
alligator.org.
lead to 65-63.
It was the closest the game had been since UF took a 2-0 lead on 
a Jaterra Bonds layup 12 seconds into the game.
“At the end of the huddle I said, ‘Look at me. We’re going to 
win this. We got this,’” coach Amanda Butler said. “The looks I got 
back were very confident. At that moment, I had a sigh of relief, because the confidence in their eyes was undeniable.”
Following the timeout, Jennifer George, who led the Gators 
with 16 points and six rebounds, took a pass from Azania Stewart in the paint and pivoted to her left for a layup. George’s bucket proved decisive in the five-point victory against the Buckeyes, im-proving the Gators’ record to 4-10 in games decided by six points 
or fewer.
“I commend Jennifer for continuing to shoot, continuing to at-
tack,” Kirkpatrick said. “She was getting bumped down there, and 
that’s OK. That’s what we wanted. A physical game always favors 
us.”
Although Ohio State outscored Florida 42-30 in the paint, UF 
was much more efficient on the glass, outrebounding OSU 46-35.
The Gators, boosted by 20 offensive rebounds, outscored the 
Buckeyes 16-5 in second-chance points.
Ohio State had just six offensive boards, contributing to Flor -
ida’s 81.3 defensive rebounding percentage — 18.2 percentage 
points higher than its season average.
“We knew that we would have the inside advantage,” Kirk-
patrick said.
After playing the underdog role against the Buckeyes, the 
Gators will do so again against Griner and the top-ranked Bears.
As one of the last four teams selected to the NCAA Tournament, 
Jones said Florida is motivated to pull a second upset Tuesday.
“Ohio State talked a lot about being disrespected (because of its 
low seeding),” Jones said. “ But we felt disrespected, too.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this report.Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@alligator.org. MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Gators set sights on deep tourney run after eliminating Spartans
New contributors key Florida’s wins
best: Syracuse, Ohio State, Ken-
tucky (three times) and Vanderbilt (twice),” he said. “We learned a lot from those games and now when it’s most important, we are coming 
together and bonding as one to take 
that next step.”
Coach Billy Donovan pointed 
to new contributors like freshman starter Brad Beal as well as bench players like Rosario and Casey Prather as a reason why Florida was able to make it back to the Sweet 16.
With Beal providing a steady 14 
points in both the Virginia and Nor -
folk State wins, the Gators have also 
gotten a career-high 14 points from 
Prather on Friday, followed by Ro-sario’s recent 5-of-7 shooting perfor -
mance Sunday . 
“It’s been rewarding for them to 
have success,” Donovan said. “You see them go through ups and downs 
for the season and every team goes 
through those, but it’s been reward-ing.”
After scoring just three points 
against Virginia, Rosario had eight in the final 4:14 of the first half against Norfolk State.
Rosario nailed a 3-pointer with 
three seconds to play, giving Florida a 47-19 lead and all of the momen-tum going into halftime, Donovan said.
The 6-foot-3 guard also helped 
contribute to Florida’s 48-31 advan-tage on the boards by hauling in two offensive rebounds, which led im-mediately to four Gators’ points.
“I didn’t tell Mike, ‘Hey , listen 
we need you scoring,’” Donovan said. “When you’re locked in those things can happen for you. … He gave us good contributions. I think in this tournament you have to have different guys step up at different times.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.ROSARIO , from page 13
W-HOOPS , from page 13George leads strong 
UF rebounding effort
in terms of points per possession allowed. 
By leaps and bounds UF’s best defender, 
Yeguete gave the Gators a versatile player 
who could guard every position but center 
and be a menace at the top of the press. 
But, with the surfacing of Casey Prather 
and the jelling of new rotations, Florida 
has been able to pressure opponents al-
most as effectively as it did with Yeguete in the lineup. 
A switch to the press helped the Gators 
climb out of an early 10-2 hole against the 
Cavaliers, and a similar switch paved the way for a 25-0 run against the Spartans on Sunday. 
In another respect, Florida’s suddenly 
strong play on defense can’t be considered 
all that shocking. When the Gators have 
struggled this season, the lapses were 
blamed on effort and focus. 
In the NCAA Tournament, where every 
game could be your last, it can’t be too sur -
prising that Florida has found its groove 
on the defensive end and avoided similar 
mistakes. 
“We proved that the last two games 
against Virginia and [Sunday against Nor -
folk State] that we could play really great defense and if we lock in on those things and come up with the loose balls and the 
rebounds,” Patric Young said. “We need 
to keep that intensity up every game. Should’ve had that from the beginning of the season.”
Maybe Brad Beal and Erving Walker 
are fighting through screens a little harder with so much on the line, and maybe Ken-ny Boynton is crashing the defensive glass with more passion. 
His five defensive boards against Vir -
ginia tied a season-high, and his eight against Norfolk State set a new one, as well as a career-high. 
A two-game sample against two aver -
age-at-best offensive teams isn’t enough to say Florida will be a defensive juggernaut 
the rest of the way. 
But there’s definitely reason to be more 
optimistic than before the Tournament be-
gan. 
If the effort and intensity stay where 
they’ve been the past two games, there’s no reason Florida can’t overcome the curse of three-happy, offense-reliant teams.  
“The motivation of knowing what’s on 
the line and what’s at risk if we lose, we have to do those things to continue our season,” Young said. “If we do that and take care of those little things, we can keep 
going.”
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.GREG , from page 13HOOPS , from page 1
AP Photo
Coach Billy Donovan pointed to the efforts of Brad Beal (14 points, 
nine boards) and Mike Rosario (12 points) as catalysts to UF’s win.
Young
16, ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2012
UF SOFTBALL
  JONATHAN CZUPRYN
 Alligator Writer
   
 Sometimes, it is best to play the 
waiting game.
  Florida’s ability to be patient is 
allowing the Gators to become an 
even more potent offensive threat.
  Coach Tim Walton has stressed 
in practices this season the value of going after the right pitch. The result: a squad with the best ratio of walks-to-strikeouts in the South-eastern Conference. With a 1.1-to-1 ratio, the Gators are the only SEC team to have more walks than strikeouts.
  “Walks are part of our game,” Walton said. “Most people think we take a lot of pitches, but that’s not the goal. The goal is to get you a good pitch early in the count, but if the team doesn’t throw strikes, then don’t chase. That’s our M.O.”
  In Sunday’s 7-3 win against 
South Carolina, Florida (26-2, 7-1 SEC) took its time to ﬁ  nd the right 
pitches, and the wait was worth it. 
Sixteen of the 32 UF batters saw two-ball counts. Those 16 batters combined for four walks and three key hits: an RBI single, a home run and a double late in the game to put away South Carolina (19-12, 2-6).
Alyssa Bache started and 
pitched three scoreless innings while Hannah Rogers closed things out for her 14th win of the season.
  Sophomore Cheyenne Coyle 
demonstrated patience and power 
Sunday, hitting a 
homer and draw-ing a walk. 
  “(We did bet-
ter by) looking at 
strikes and tak-
ing balls,” Coyle said. “When peo-ple try too hard, maybe that’s 
when things mess up. It’s hard to be patient and wait for your pitch, though. Some pitches look good, then they break, and then it’s not 
the same pitch you saw. I think deﬁ  nitely you have to keep your 
weight back and look for your pitch. You’re bound to get it.”
  When Florida takes advantage 
of the right pitches, the results are impressive. The Gators have the second-most home runs in the SEC (34), the second-highest batting av-erage (.332), and they have scored 
the second-most runs (183). 
  “That’s what we’ve been work-
ing on since our ﬁ  rst day of prac-
tice,” Walton said when asked how difﬁ  cult it is to wait for the right pitch. “It’s deﬁ  nitely a discipline; I call it ‘aggressively disciplined.’ That’s why we can hit some home runs, too.”
  A prime example of what com-posure at the plate can do is junior Kelsey Horton, who leads the SEC with nine home runs and 29 RBI. Horton also has one of the best walk-to-strikeout ratios on the team with 1.2 walks for every strikeout. Freshman Lauren Haeger, who went 3 for 4 Sunday with a home run, has the highest ratio, drawing 
2.4 walks for every strikeout.
  “We have strong people on our 
team,” Coyle said. “There are a lot 
of girls who can hit the ball; even our little tiny players have pop. But we’re disciplined, and we go over everything in practice. And when we are not hitting as well, we can always play small ball to get those 
things going.” 
Coyle, Haeger homer as patient Gators sweep Gamecocks   
  ELI MARGER 
 Alligator Writer
   
 In the midst of a Southeastern Confer-
ence slate described as brutal by coaches 
and players, Florida men’s tennis team will travel to   No. 1 USC, the three-time defending national champions.
  While the Trojans (17-0) will put their 
37-match home win streak on the line, the Gators will travel nearly 2,500 miles for their biggest challenge of the year. 
The Gators scheduled a home-and-
home against the Trojans and hosted them last spring, losing 4-3.
    “I’m basically against going to the 
West Coast,” coach Andy Jackson said. 
“I’m against going to L.A. because I 
think it’s a lot of work for one match. But I really like the coach. I think that they have a great team, and they were willing to come here ﬁ  rst.”
  The trip comes with Florida sitting 
at 2-2 in SEC play , although both losses were 4-3 affairs. After losing close to Kentucky , UF would probably prefer 
working at home this week.
   Instead, the Gators will face the Tro-
jans, whose closest match this season 
was a 4-3 win against No. 2 Ohio State.    
  “It’s not like I said, ‘It’s going to be 
great for us to go to back to L.A. when we’ve lost a tough one to Kentucky, and instead of taking a week off, let’s go kill ourselves in L.A.,’” Jackson said. “Right 
now, I don’t really feel like [the schedul-
ing has] worked out well, but that’s be-cause of hindsight. Every decision looks bad if you lose.” 
For the full story, see alligatorSports.org.Florida faces tough trip  
out West vs. No. 1 USC   KATIE AGOSTIN 
 Alligator Writer
   
 It’s not every day that you hear about a 
freshman leading her team to victory. Camilla 
Hedberg did just that this weekend at home in the SunTrust Gator Women’s Invitational.
  After a steady start on Sunday, Hedberg 
went on to make two birdies against one bogey the rest of the way , giving her a round of 69 (-1). This was her second round under par as she re-corded a three-day score of 208 (-2). 
  “I played pretty good today . I stayed very 
calm,” Hedberg said. “I started with 11 pars in 
a row so it was kind of a boring round, but it 
was safe.”
  The freshman tied for second overall, which 
helped the Gators win their home tournament for the second year in a row with a team score of 864 (+24), beating Alabama by one stroke.
“It’s one of the best ﬁ  elds we’ve played 
against here at our home tournament, and to beat Alabama by one down the stretch shows determination,” said Evan Jensen, who ﬁ  n-ished seventh. “We really prepared well, and 
it paid off.”
      While the women were busy trying to re-
peat last season’s win, the men were unable to 
bring home a win from Statesboro, Ga. 
  Florida ﬁ  nished tied for third at the Chris 
Schenkel Invitational after shooting 17-under (847).  Alabama ran away with the tournament, ﬁ  nishing with four players in the top 5 en route to a 22-stroke victory .  
  “We’re still learning and improving, al-
though it can’t happen quick enough after see-ing what Alabama did out there this week,” UF men’s golf coach Buddy Alexander said. “That was an impressive display of golf.”
For the full story, see alligatorSports.org.  Hedberg leads UF women to 
 repeat win; men finish third Coyle
“It’s one of the best ﬁ  elds we’ve 
played against here at our home 
tournament.”
Evan Jensen
UF women’s senior golfer