VOLUME 106 ISSUE 87 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Gainesville temperatures unseasonably warm
Weekend weather may cool down, pg 3.  
Former WUFT producer charged with battery
Police say she resisted arrest, pg 5. Student organization offers rides to polls 
A UF alumnus offered his car to drive voters to 
the polls Wednesday on behalf of Students for a Democratic Society, pg. 5. 
80/61
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Eric and Susan Scites practice the glass harp Wednesday afternoon in preparation for the opening of the Hog-
getowne Medieval Faire. Eric, 49, and his wife, Susan, 47, travel the country demonstrating the instrument.
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Writer
David Brown drove his golf cart 
past half-assembled tents and cloth-
ing racks packed with purple-and-blue wizard robes.
Cloth ran between wooden posts 
and stuck out of the newly packed ground, forming a maze.
V endors unloaded trucks ﬁ  lled 
with empty glass bottles, soon to be ﬁ  lled with homemade sarsaparilla.
They were setting up for the 
Hoggetowne Medieval Faire, a pro-cess that continues today as an age-old city reappears on the Alachua County Fairgrounds.
The 26th annual fair will take 
place Saturday and Sunday and Feb. 3 to Feb. 5. Entrance is $14 for adults, $7 for children ages 5 to 17 and free for children younger than 5.
The sounds of hammers pound-
ing posts and the smell of musty costumes drifted through the air at the fairgrounds, located at 2900 NE 39th Ave.
For about a week, 20 workers 
put in 10-hour days to set up the fair, said Brown, site manager at the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire.
“We have had some of the best 
laborers ever this year,” he said, adding that the setup for the fair was a half-day ahead of schedule.
Each day , about ﬁ  ve inmates and 
12 workers from a temporary em-ployment agency , TempForce, set up the fair, Brown said. 
While preparing for the fair, 
Brown and about 20 workers brought in 25 to 30 temporary bath-rooms, 500 benches at $75 each and 5,000 to 6,000 combinations of nuts, bolts and washers, Brown said.
“It’s like one big puzzle,” he said. 
“Every piece has to ﬁ  t its spot.”
Brown drove through the life-
sized puzzle while each piece was starting to ﬁ  t. As he went along, he watched tents transforming into me-dieval storefronts, stages for jesters to please royalty and a chessboard big enough for human players.
It takes one to two weeks to 
transform the fairgrounds into a make-believe medieval town. But planning is a yearlong process.
Brown has been managing the 
fair for two decades, but he only does it three weeks each year. When he’s not working with the fair, he said, Brown pulls up and puts down asphalt for the City of Gainesville.
“It’s a nice change of pace,” he Hoggetowne Medieval Faire readying for open
SEE HOGGETOWNE, PAGE 4
JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writer
A group of about 20 UF students will 
join hundreds more students in Tallahas-see today to lobby for an end to tuition hikes and budget cuts, as well as fair representation on the board that governs the State University System.
These topics highlight the legislative 
agenda for the the Florida Student As-sociation, which is holding its annual Rally in Tally today at 1 p.m. in the state capitol. 
Student Government External Affairs 
Director Billy Vranish is leading a group from UF to participate. 
Students will meet with legislators in 
addition to rallying on the capitol steps.
FSA chairman Michael Long cited af-
fordable tuition as the the top issue for the students this legislative session. 
Traveling from school to school, it’s 
easy to see that the No.1 issue on stu-dents’ minds is the rising cost of tuition, said Long, a sophomore who is co-presi-dent of the student body at New College of Florida.
According to the legislative agenda 
prepared by FSA, the group is asking lawmakers to maintain the current level of funding for higher education without increasing tuition.
Another priority, Long said, is stu-
dent representation on the Board of Governors, the State University System’s highest governing body . 
The student representative on the 
Board of Governors is elected from among the 10 university student body Students head to Capitol 
today to lobby lawmakersLEGISLATURE
� THE VICTIM DIALED 911 FOR HIM.
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Craig Adams threatened to take Eisha 
Steele’s life Tuesday evening. Just four hours 
later, she saved his.
Steele lives in unit 144 at Regency Oaks 
Apartments. She heard a knock on the door around 10 p.m. It was a man from the second ﬂ  oor. He doesn’t speak English well, Steele said, but she managed to make out the mes-sage: ﬁ  re, unit 143.
When she walked outside to check, she 
saw thick smoke ﬂ  oating from next door. Ad-ams’ door.
Earlier in the evening, at around 5:50, the 
51-year-old threatened Steele with a butcher knife and said he was going to kill her.
But none of that mattered now.She pounded at the entrance to 143 and 
yelled for the old man to come out. Nothing. She called 911.
“I’m trying to save his life, but at the same time, he’s been trying to kill me,” Steele said. “So it’s weird. I just had to forget all of that and get help. I’m not going to let him die.”
It wasn’t hard for Gainesville Fire Rescue to 
extinguish the ﬂ  ames. It was just a grease ﬁ  re. Adams fell asleep while cooking, Gainesville Police Sgt. Brad Litchﬁ  eld said.
Adams was not harmed, but he was ar-
rested and charged with aggravated assault for threatening Steele with the knife.
He was still in Alachua 
County Jail on Wednes-day night with a bond of $10,000.
Steele is close with her 
next-door neighbor, she said. He served in Vietnam; she spent time in Iraq. A lot of people in the apartment complex are veterans.
“We have a special bond, all of us who 
served,” she said. “We look out for each other. There are certain things you see when you’re in combat that other people just can’t relate to. We know how the government treats some of Man cannot elude assault 
charges after apartment fire 
SEE FIRE, PAGE 4SEE RALLY, PAGE 43033 returns to 
Gainesville next week!  
Page 11 has the side-
splitting details.
Steele
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 87 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tom Green, Phil Kegler, Greg Luca,   
  Corey McCall, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Calli Breil, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward, 
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett, 
  David Williams, Nika Zecevic, 
  Chloe Finch
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST What’s happening?
City of Gainesville’s Arbor Day 
Celebration
Today, 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.Thomas Center, 302 NE Sixth Ave.The City of Gainesville Department of Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs, the City Beautification Board and the Thomas Center Associates pres-ent a free celebration of Arbor Day . There will be a tour of the Thomas Center Gardens from 11:30 a.m. to 11:50 a.m. From noon to 1 p.m., Gainesville will celebrate its 28th year as a Tree City USA by planting 56 magnolia trees at the Thomas Center. Music and refreshments will be provided at the celebra-tion. For more information, visit cbb.cityofgainesville.org. 
The Closet Monologues with 
Scott FriedToday, 8 p.m.UF Hillel, 2020 W. University Ave.Scott Fried, international public speaker, HIV/AIDS educator and author, will discuss many of the challenges and responsibili-ties facing gay , lesbian, bisexual and transgendered youth. The program deals with how soci-etal shame can transform into internalized self-hatred and thereby cause a multiplicity of risk behaviors. Program discus-sions also include disclosure is-sues and what it really means to be “in the closet” or “out.” This event is co-sponsored by UF Hillel, SG LGBTQ Student Affairs Cabinet, LGBT Affairs and Pride Student Union
The Marvin Harris 2012 Lecture
Friday, 4 p.m.Turlington, Room L011The lecture, entitled “The Juridical Hospital: Claiming the Right to Health in Brazilian Courts,” is organized by the Department of Anthropology in collaboration with the Center for Latin American Studies. Featured speaker will be João Biehl of Princeton University , Scott Fried, international pub-
lic speaker, HIV/AIDS edu-cator and author, and the UF Hillel. The trip will consist of building a house for a family with HIV/AIDS with time to scuba dive in what is consid-ered to be the world’s second-best diving location. All stu-dents who go on this trip with us will have an opportunity to get certified before the trip. 
BBQ with Scott Fried
Sunday, 1 p.m.UF Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.Scott Fried, international pub-lic speaker, HIV/AIDS educa-tor and author, will share his story about how he started the AIDS support group which the musical “Rent” is based on and enjoy some free BBQ.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.professor of anthropology and 
co-director of the Program in Global Health and Health 
Policy.
Critical Mass Leisurely Bike 
Ride
Friday, 5 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasPut the fun between your legs. Join in an International Monthly Celebration of the Bicycle. The bike ride will take place the last Friday of every month. Meet on the plaza at 5 p.m. for the ride that will be-gin at 5:30 p.m.
Oneg with Scott Fried
Friday, 7:30 p.m.UF Hillel, 202 W University Ave.Join UF Hillel for Reform, Conservative or Traditional Shabbat services, followed by a free Kosher dinner. Following Shabbat there will be a free Oneg with Scott Fried, international public speaker, HIV/AIDS educator and author.
Theatre Strike Force @ 
GatorNightsFriday, 9 p.m.Orange & BrewCome for the smiling faces; stay for the improv comedy . It’ll be a show of laughter to warm you on these long, January nights. 
Havdallah and Honduras 
Service Trip
Saturday, 6:30 p.m.UF Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.Find out how to get on an amazing service trip to Honduras this summer with 
PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/61THUNDER
STORMS
77/48SUNNY
74/45SUNNY
69/37SUNNY
68/42MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
 THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
WEATHER
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville has been experi-
encing unusually warm weather 
this January.
Temperatures have been al-
most 20 degrees higher than the average for this time of the year. On Tuesday, the tempera-ture came within two degrees of breaking that date’s record high of 85 degrees Farenheit.
Students, typically bundled in 
boots and scarves for winter at this time of year, could be seen Wednesday roaming campus in tank tops and flip-flops.
Jayme Fitzgerald, a 21-year-
old tourism and hospitality man-agement major, was handing out fliers in shorts.
“You can’t complain, because 
the weather outside is great,” Fitzgerald said. “I love wearing shorts and a T-shirt out instead of wearing fleece everywhere I go.”
The main cause for this warmth 
is a weather pattern called Arc-tic oscillation, said Al Sandrik, meteorologist for the National Weather Service.
The continental U.S. is cur -
rently locked in a positive Arctic oscillation, which means there is lower-than-normal pressure over the poles. This causes colder weather to get stuck in the north-ern parts of the continent like Canada and Alaska. 
However, the system can 
switch unpredictably to a nega-tive Arctic oscillation, which would allow the cold air to ven-ture south.Gainesville’s last two winters 
have been the fourth- and fifth-coldest seasons on record, which may have been caused by a nega-tive Arctic oscillation, Sandrik said.
“Don’t be surprised if it gets 
cold in February or March,” he said. “We usually don’t stay locked in one pattern for the whole season.”
La Niña is also playing a role, 
he said. The weather pattern is causing warm air to flow into the southern areas.The warm temperatures will 
take the weekend off, with low temperatures in the upper 40s and high temperatures in the upper 60s to lower 70s. There’s even a chance of a freeze Monday night.
Still, this dip in temperature 
hasn’t dampened Fitzgerald’s ap-preciation of the warm weather, considering she used to live in Oklahoma.
“It’s 32 degrees there right 
now,” Fitzgerald said. “So this weather is perfect.”
Gainesville temperatures unseasonably high for Januarysaid. 
Brown drove down the cen-
ter path, and he heard classic 
rock from a van a few tents down. He saw the Walker family setting up display cases that will hold the results of a lifetime of practice.
After 20 years, Bob Walker, 
48-year-old puppet maker and owner of Midsummer Knight’s Dream, said he is still happy to drive from Ocala to participate in the fair.
“It’s about home pride,” he 
said.
It takes a minimum of four 
hours and an average of eight hours to make a puppet, he said.
The puppets — figures of 
cloth, wood and imagination — are assembled in Ocala.
People either smile at or are 
terrified by the puppets.
“Some people will not be-
lieve when you tell them [the puppet] isn’t real,” Walker said.
Brown kept driving. The 
smell of freshly cut wood and the sound of men laughing over a cold beer whisked by. 
Kyle Parker, 38-year-old 
craftsman with Royal Armoury, said the company drives more than 1,000 miles from Holly, Mich., to Gainesville and has been for all 26 years the fair has been running.Royal Armoury sells wood-
en shields and swords for chil-dren. The family-owned busi-ness has crafted the toys for about 40 years — through three generations of apprentices.
Parker’s children, mostly 
in their 20s, paint the intricate designs, he said, and the com-pany brought more than 2,000 pieces of wooden crafts to sell.
The sound of water in 
crystal glasses played by deft hands rang, and Brown drove onward toward the back of the town.
Eric Scites, 49, and his wife, 
Susan, 47, swept their hands across the rims of the 41 snif-ters that make up the glass harp.
 The couple has played the 
glass harp for about a decade, Susan said. Creating music with only their hands, crystal and water is their full-time job.
For the eighth year in a row, 
they’ll sit in their tent by the trees as they share their music and the lore of this recreated world.
“We’re here for the histo-
ry,” Eric said.
Brown drove away from the 
town-raising, past the racks of cotton costumes, past a storage warehouse with flags of imag-ined nations and toward the open front gate.
Outside, logistics like park-
ing and police patrols wait for him. But inside, a world of imagination is unfolding.4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
T.J. Villamil, presidential candidate for the Unite Party, speaks outside the Reitz Union on Wednesday 
afternoon.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
Student Government Treasurer 
T.J. Villamil announced his can-
didacy with the Unite Party for Student Body president between classes Wednesday afternoon.
About 40 students were on the 
Reitz Union North Lawn as Vil-lamil spoke about the upcoming election and his campaign.
“I have big plans for the future 
of Student Government,” he said. 
He spoke of using technology 
to enhance the student experience. He also spoke of continuing the results the Unite Party produces. 
The Unite Party, started in 
2009, has had three presidential campaigns and six party plat-forms, said party spokeswoman Christina Bonarrigo.  
“We have the most student-
friendly campus in the world,” Villamil said. “But why be happy with the status quo?” As the son of two Cuban im-
migrants, Villamil said he wants to honor their commitment to him by serving others. 
As Student Body treasurer, 
Villamil said he increased fund-ing for student organizations and worked with student leaders on the initiative to expand and reno-vate the Reitz Union. 
Villamil was a senator for two 
consecutive years and chaired the Budget and Appropriations Com-mittee. He was elected treasurer in Spring 2010. 
The Students Party has yet to 
choose a candidate. 
Villamil plans to select his 
treasurer and vice president next week. 
He said he wants to get this out 
of the way so the Unite Party can start building a platform.
“I am excited to unite this cam-
pus as one,” he said. T.J. Villamil to run for 
Student Body president
HOGGETOWNE , 
from page 1Some vendors have been 
at fair for gen erationsTwo UF student groups will attend
presidents in the FSA. Long is currently serving as the 
representative.
A bill now under consideration would give Gov . 
Rick Scott the power to appoint the position, displacing the current process.
“How is the governor going to better identify a stu-
dent leader than student leaders themselves?” Long said.
A separate group of 10 UF students is making the trip 
as part of the statewide student activist group Florida Alliance for Student Action. 
Cassia Laham, 22, organized the trip. The political 
science senior said although the students are not going to lobby as part of the FSA’s effort, they feel students don’t go to the capitol during the legislative session of-ten enough.
“There is a legislative session that is going to affect 
everyone’s pockets,” she said.
The group is also advocating for many of the same 
issues as FSA, including an end to tuition hikes and cuts to higher education budgets and Bright Futures scholar -
ships.Long said the trip is not only a lobbying mission but 
also an educational experience for students.
It’s a chance for students to learn about the legislative 
process, he said.
The Florida Student Association is an independent 
nonprofit organization representing nearly 300,000 stu-dents at 10 institutions in the State University System, according to the association’s website.RALLY , from page 1
Dispute started over money for errand
us, not taking care of certain things 
they should, so we have each oth-er’s backs.”
They didn’t earlier on Tuesday, 
though.
Steele gave Adams some mon-
ey to walk across Southwest 34th Street and buy Honey Buns and croissants at Kelly’s Kwik Shop for her two children. It wasn’t the first time she’d asked him, and she lets him keep whatever money is left.
But this time he didn’t buy ev-
erything she asked for. When she demanded the rest of her money, Adams got angry. He yelled and stepped toward her. She retreated, but he kept coming. They ended up at her doorstep.
Steele said she ran into her 
kitchen, grabbed a knife off the top of her fridge and told him to leave. Adams then ran to his apartment and grabbed a knife of his own. A butcher knife. He came back.
“Bitch, if you come outside I’m 
going to kill you,” he said, accord-ing to an arrest report.
Steele’s brother, Trey King, 
stepped between the two knives, and Adams walked back to his apartment.
He suffers from post-traumatic 
stress disorder and sometimes becomes paranoid, Steele said. It doesn’t help that he uses drugs from time to time. Still, Steele never saw Adams so angry before Tues-day.
She called GPD, but officers 
could not go inside Adams’ apart-ment because they weren’t 100 percent sure he was there, said Li-tchfield, the sergeant in the area. Officers knocked on the locked door and told him to come out, but he stayed inside. Eventually, the police left.
“It’s a little bit of karma,” Litch-
field said Tuesday night. “A couple hours earlier, we were out here and he wouldn’t answer the door for us. Then he falls asleep and starts a fire.”
FIRE , from page 1 “It’s a little bit of karma.”
Sgt. Brad Litchfield
Gainesville PoliceTop Priorities:
 
1. Affordable tuition: FSA is requesting no increase to tu -
ition.
2. Student representation on the Board of Governors: Cur -
rently, the student representative on the board is elected from the 10 student body presidents in FSA. A bill has been filed that would grant the governor the power to ap-point the position. FSA opposes the bill because it feels should continue to be democratically elected.3. Funding for facilities: FSA is asking the legislature to allow the Board of Governors to approve requests for in-creases from the university boards of trustees for funding to maintain current facilities and take on a new building. THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 5
CITY ELECTIONS
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
Dave Schneider watched and wait-
ed for the right moment as students 
passed his table.
“Are you registered to vote, man?” 
he asked passers-by as they stared at the pavement and beelined for Library West. “Come vote, dude. I’ll drive you to the polls, get you out of there in 10, 15 minutes max.”
Schneider, a 21-year-old UF alum-
nus, stood behind a table on the Plaza of the Americas Tuesday afternoon. A white, handwritten sign on the table read, “We can drive you to the polls today.” 
On behalf of Students for a Demo-
cratic Society, Schneider volunteered his car and offered free rides down-town for anyone interested in the city elections and the Republican Presiden-tial Preference Primary.
He lingered in front of the table in 
khaki pants and a long-sleeved, blue, button-down dress shirt. It was 81 de-grees outside without a cloud in the sky.
Most people avoided him.Some said they had class, some said 
they were registered in other counties and others said they would come back later. They never did.
Within a few hours of standing and 
talking, Schneider persuaded one stu-dent.
“I guess if he’s dedicated enough 
to drive people, and there’s a free ride right here, I better go vote,” said Rob-bey Hayes, a 21-year-old anthropology junior.
So, off they went. Schneider, a city coordinator for the 
American Federation of Labor and Con-gress of Industrial Organizations, kept his 2005 Camry on hand in the nearby Chipotle Mexican Grill parking lot.
Schneider picked up a little secret 
during his four years at UF: Chipotle never tows, he said.
Windows down and music off, Sch-
neider drove Hayes downtown to the Supervisor of Elections Administration Building next to Bo Diddley Commu-nity Plaza. 
Hayes said he didn’t know too much 
about the city candidates or state voting regulations. Schneider, who is also the deputy campaign manager for James Ingle, a Gainesville City Commission at-large 1 candidate, spent most of the 10-minute ride explaining candidate platforms and regulations.
As the two passed Bagels & Noodles 
on University Avenue, Hayes gushed about how good the Vietnamese soup was.
“Really? I’ve never heard of it. I’m 
going to go try it this week,” Schneider said.
They arrived at the downtown vot-
ing site. The seven voter-reserved park-ing spots in front of the building were vacant. 
Schneider parked and stayed in the 
car. He kept his car running and left the windows down. Hayes went inside to vote. 
The voting process took about 10 minutes because Hayes had to change his address. That takes longer than usu-al, Schneider said.
“Normally there are no lines during 
early voting,” he said. “So it takes no time.”
Hayes ﬁ  nished voting, got his “I 
Voted” sticker and walked back to the car. 
The 68-year-old poll deputy who 
was sitting outside the building in his American ﬂ  ag baseball cap waved goodbye.
“I can’t tell ya how wonderful it is to 
see students down here voting early,” said Joe Antonelli, poll deputy at the Supervisor of Elections Administration Building. 
The burly, gray-bearded man 
said he has been working the polls in Gainesville for 20 years. 
“I look forward to when students 
come,” he said. “It shows that they are taking an interest, which is great be-cause student turnout is usually abys-mal.” 
Hayes said he was happy to do his 
part in the city political process.
“These city elections are affecting 
me,” he said. “I did my civic duty. It was exhilarating. And I got a free ride out of it.”
On the way back to campus, Sch-
neider talked about how difﬁ  cult it was to mobilize students to go vote in city and state elections. 
Regardless, he said, he was thrilled 
Hayes took advantage of the free ride. 
The two arrived back on the plaza. Hayes went to class, and Schneider 
returned to his post. 
When he arrived, another student 
was waiting for him.
Alumnus offers car rides to polls
TYLER JETT
Alligator Writer
A former producer at WUFT-TV was arrested and 
charged with battery on a police ofﬁ  cer and resisting 
without violence Wednesday morning.
According to a police report, Lisa Stengel, 22, was 
drunk when she started cursing at paramedics and Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cer James Lake at 12:55 a.m. out-side the 101 Downtown bar. Lake and the paramedics 
were trying to help Stengel’s friend, 
whose leg was cut. She is a broad-cast journalism major at UF, accord-ing to her Facebook page.
Stengel yelled louder and louder, 
and eventually Lake tried to calm her down. Stengel, who is 5 feet tall, 100 pounds, shoved the ofﬁ  cer, ac-cording to the report. 
At Lake’s patrol car, Stengel resisted as he tried to 
put her inside. Once she ﬁ  nally sat in the back seat, she refused to swing her legs in.
Eventually , Lake strapped her in a rip hobble to 
keep her from squirming.
A rip hobble is a strap that locks a person’s legs to-
gether at the ankle. It is used on someone who is kick-ing other people.
Stengel did not return a call requesting comment.Former WUFT 
producer charged with battery 
“Normally there are no lines 
during early voting. So it takes 
no time.”
Dave Schneider
UF alumnus
Stengel
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR41 TOTAL VOTES24% YES
76% NOWednesday’s question: Are you participat-
ing in this semester’s Career Showcase? Today’s question: Are you going to the Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire?
Students should pick Gingrich in primary
It is now abundantly obvious that the Republican primary 
has become a two-man race. As much as several mis-guided college students don’t like to admit it, Ron Paul 
is — and always has been — irrelevant. Rick Santorum is an extremist joke. The choice Republicans need to make is be-tween two men.
The next president of the United States could very well 
be a Newt. Newt Gingrich, that is. Coming from a landslide victory in South Carolina, his next stop is Florida, where he’s now in a virtual tie with Mitt Romney . Not only is Gingrich the best Republican candidate, he is the candidate best suited to beat President Obama. 
Then you have Romney, the candidate with the ideal re-
sume, the ideal family , the ideal hair and the ideal problem: Gingrich. A candidate with visible flaws, yes, Gingrich rep-resents the perfect foil to both the restraint of the Romney campaign and the discipline of the Obama regime. He speaks his mind, tells the harsh truth and knows how to manipulate the levers of power in Washington.
Contrast that with Obama, whose naivete of Washington 
is second only to his misguided liberal policies and Rom-ney, whose robotic disconnect is second only to the ease with which he spews scripted talking points. For those who watched the debate on Monday night, those talking points were out in full force. You could sense the panicked despera-tion with which Romney flung his foolish attacks at Ging-rich. 
So let’s clear things up and talk about these attacks — or, 
should I say, lies? 
First off, Romney accuses Gingrich of lobbying on behalf 
of Freddie Mac, a bank that contributed to the housing crisis. False. Gingrich had a consulting firm that offered strategic advice to several businesses on a wide variety of topics. In fact, Gingrich urged Republicans to vote against the bailout for Freddie Mac. 
Romney also likes to talk about the ethics investigation 
that Gingrich underwent as speaker of the House. Well, af-ter four successful years as Republican House speaker, bit-ter Democrats levied 84 politically motivated ethics charges. Of these, 83 were dropped. The remaining charge was the fault of a lawyer, but Gingrich took responsibility.
With regard to cap and trade, 
Romney attacks Gingrich for sit-ting on a couch with Nancy Pelosi in support of a carbon emissions reduction program. First of all, I 
have a hard time understanding why bipartisanship became a poisonous practice. Second of all, it was traditional Repub-lican ideology at the time to support such a program. George H.W. Bush supported cap and trade. Doctrines change, and the position of the Republican Party on cap and trade changed. So too has Gingrich’s position.
This is not to say that Gingrich is perfect. Yes, he is prone 
to inflammatory rhetoric. Yes, he has made his fair share of gaffes. Yes, he does have some failings in his personal life. But I’d much rather have a candidate whose dirty laundry has been aired for 30 years than a candidate who couldn’t be called a conservative just 10 years ago. I’d much rather have a candidate who can withstand controversy than one who buckles under it. I’d much rather have Newt Gingrich. 
With Florida’s primary on Tuesday , the airwaves are 
dominated by these attacks. Ignore them and do your re-search. In fact, watch the debate tonight on CNN at 8 p.m. No matter whom you choose, it is important that you do, indeed, choose. Go vote.
However, keep in mind that in a political era of mislead-
ing sound bites and stagecraft, it is paramount that we have a candidate who doesn’t need a teleprompter to make a point. It is paramount that we have a candidate who speaks his mind and not the minds of his well-paid political consul-tants. Speaker Gingrich is that candidate. He is here to stay and, I hope, to win. 
Garrett Bruno is a political science sophomore at UF . His 
column appears on Thursdays. Copyright Conflict
Current law caters 
to ‘creative class’
Throughout the current debate over the Stop Online 
Piracy Act, SOPA, and its sister bill the Protect Intel-lectual Property Act, PIPA,  supporters and opponents 
have been in agreement that online piracy is a problem that should be addressed. 
Opponents of the bills will often say the government 
should do something to stop the illegal downloads of copy-right material around the Web, but SOPA and PIPA give the government too much reach into the Internet.
And they are absolutely correct. Giving the government 
the power to shut down websites without due process upon suspicion that the sites have illicit copyright material is too much power. Under these pieces of legislation, the owners of websites will be responsible for illegal content uploaded by users, whether or not they know the material exists on their site. 
But shouldn’t opponents of these bills be questioning the 
entire reason for their existence? In the U.S. and elsewhere, there exists a belief that ideas deserve some protection by the government. Copyright law assumes that the creators of mu-sic, books, art and new technologies have a right to their ma-terial and that anyone who attempts to replicate this material is in violation of the law. 
Copyrights, it is argued, encourage innovation by giving 
people who create new things the incentive to introduce new forms of art and technology without the fear that their ideas will be stolen. The argument continues that without this in-centive, no one will create anything new. 
But if copyrights are designed to help emerging creators 
and artists, why is it that those in the establishment, such as the Motion Picture Association of America and the Recording Industry Association of America, are among the most ardent supporters of the bill? If copyrights are supposed to create incentives for innovation and creativity, why is it that inde-pendent musicians, writers, artists and filmmakers have not come out strongly in favor of these pieces of legislation? 
The fact of the matter is that copyright law, as it stands, 
gives those already in the “creative class” an intellectual mo-nopoly over ideas. The “illicit” use of copyright material on the Internet has not hindered but created an explosion in cre-ativity. 
How many people have become YouTube sensations by 
covering or mixing popular songs and then going on to re-cord their own music and albums? Copyrights prohibit the ability of others to imitate and create derivative works with-out permission of the creator, limiting our capacity to expand on existing material. 
Opponents of SOPA and PIPA should move beyond their 
protest of these laws and question the entire monopolistic structure of our current intellectual property laws.
Garrett Bruno
opinions@alligator.org THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
As a goal for this year and going forward, state 
legislators want more graduates in the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math-
ematics) majors in order to attract high-paying jobs to the state of Florida. This is a noble goal that should be pursued by all means. 
STEM jobs not only provide jobs for those who have 
earned a STEM degree but can provide a ripple effect in the community surrounding these jobs. Workers in these fields need services, everyday goods and enter -
tainment just like everyone else. Quite often, due to their higher income, they are willing to pay more for these areas of commerce and are therefore providing higher-paying jobs to the surrounding community. 
However, UF President Bernie Machen has re-
sponded with an idea that, to students in STEM ma-jors, may seem to be counterproductive on the surface. President Machen proposed to the state legislature that it should grant him the ability to raise tuition for these students.
This would appear to be a move to dissuade stu-
dents from pursuing these fields for financial reasons. The goal, however, is to increase graduation in the STEM majors. Therefore President Machen’s proposi-
tion is beneficial in a number of ways. 
First, the increased tuition 
for STEM majors would un-doubtedly provide improved funding for the items associ-
ated with the coursework in these majors such as lab equipment, high-salaried faculty and costly teaching materials. The way in which this increase in tuition would benefit the state is that undergraduates would consider the pros and cons of pursuing a STEM de-gree more carefully. 
Students would take more into consideration when 
gauging their interest in the field of study as well as their career aspirations. This is similar to the higher cost of graduate and professional degree programs and the way in which students weigh the pros and cons of pursuing them, all the while taking into ac-count the costs associated with pursuing these stud-ies. 
Some opponents will say this keeps students of 
lower socioeconomic status from pursuing STEM ma-jors. This is not so. The State University System will always have a priority of providing a quality educa-tion to students of all economic backgrounds. Stu-dents with financial need will get aid. Students with academic merit will also get aid. That’s not the issue.
The issue is students hear on the news and in the 
media about the high-paying jobs associated with earning a STEM degree, and they pursue these jobs without considering their own interest in the field. This increase in tuition for STEM majors will give incoming students pause to consider their career op-tions and the paths they wish to follow, encouraging students currently within the programs to finish the mission and make their education worthwhile. 
It will also benefit the overall four-year graduation 
rate by sending high-achieving students into majors they are actually interested in, without spending time pursuing a major that they do not have a passion for. This measure should be supported and carefully con-sidered by faculty, students, legislators and citizens alike.
Austin Swink is a political science sophomore at UF.Austin Swink
Speaking Out
The Keystone XL Pipeline was designed to carry oil 
to the Gulf of Mexico from the Canadian tar sands, a particularly dirty source of crude oil. According 
to NASA’s top climate scientist James Hansen, the full development of the pipeline would mean “game over for the climate.” Infuriated by this threat to human security, environmental activists have organized rapidly in the past six months. While in peaceful protest, 1,252 activists were arrested in August and more than 10,000 showed up to surround the White House in November. A few weeks later, President Obama chose to postpone his deci-sion on KXL until after the presidential election. House Republicans responded to this by pinning an article on KXL to the payroll tax cut extension bill, effectively forc-ing a decision on the pipeline within 60 days.
When forced to make the decision, Obama said no to 
the KXL construction permit.
In some ways, this is a victory. Obama rejected an envi-
ronmentally destructive proposal after the greatest surge of environmental activism in recent history. Normally fractured environmental groups joined forces to fight for the same goal and won. The power of people beat out the financial capital of the biggest corporations in the world. This, after all, is why activism matters.
In other ways, however, Obama’s decision is not sig-
nificant. TransCanada, the corporation proposing the pipeline, will reapply for the construction permit in two weeks with a slightly different route. The State Depart-ment will then take a year to complete a new investiga-tion of its environmental effect, and the plan may be ap-proved after that. In other words, Obama’s decision was not final.
Furthermore, as he announced his decision to deny 
the permit, Obama declared continuing support for do-mestic oil development. What happened to the president who announced in 2008 that he would end “the tyranny of oil”? What happened to the president who pays atten-tion to reality?
According to the International Energy Association, we 
have five years to seriously slow fossil fuel development, or else all hope of stopping irreversible climate change will be lost. The IEA is a conservative body, using stan-dards for safe levels of atmospheric CO2 concentration that are often considered too high.
With five years at most to stop climate change, we can-
not afford to develop fossil fuels further. Supporters of KXL like to say it is just one more pipeline, and its nega-tive impact on the climate is worth 5,000 temporary jobs. Some critics of the anti-KXL movement like pointing out that it would take 1,000 years to fully develop the tar sands, argu-ing that Hansen’s “game over” quote doesn’t apply and KXL isn’t actually that important to 
climate change.
These arguments all miss the point. We don’t have 
1,000 years to wait for the tar sands to be completely de-veloped — we have five years until the window of op-portunity to combat climate change is “closed forever,” according to Faith Birol, chief economist of the IEA. No pipeline, KXL or otherwise, is “just another pipeline” at this point. Every piece of fossil fuel infrastructure that we build locks us into decades of deadly pollution that we cannot afford.
We have to reverse the trend, stop developing fossil 
fuels and power the world using clean, safe energy sourc-es. This vision is not stupid or unrealistic. Engineers at Stanford and University of California, Davis, have found that it would be possible to provide the entire world’s energy needs from clean, safe sources by 2050, keeping energy costs similar to those today. This is not a question of technology or economics — it is a question of political will.
How do we get there? For a start, we can stop wasting 
$10 billion each year on fossil fuel subsidies. We can pass Rep. Pete Stark’s Save Our Climate Act to set up a fee and dividend carbon-taxing scheme that would protect citizens, encourage development of safe energy sources and reduce the deficit. American families shouldn’t have to worry about their financial situation being jeopardized by volatile oil prices. American families shouldn’t spend their hard-earned money on energy that causes air pol-lution, damages their health and increases our nation’s health care costs. We want our money going to clean en-ergy programs that create sustainable jobs for Americans and strengthen our communities.
Clean energy development and investments in energy 
efficiency would create hundreds of thousands of jobs and save us billions of dollars. Continued investments in fossil fuel infrastructure such as Keystone XL will cost us billions of dollars and destroy lives.
Do you really want to live in a country where corpo-
rate fossil fuel dictators steal your health, corrupt your democracy and destroy your communities and safety for their profits? I don’t. Join me in the movement to win back our country and build a better future.
Alli Welton is a columnist for the Harvard Crimson at 
Harvard University. 
US should not invest in pipelineUWire
Alli Welton
UWireTuition should 
be higher for  students getting STEM degreesGuest columntheAvenue    
“The Row” movie premieres tonight in Weimer.
Ever wanted to see a student-made ﬁ  lm before it got 
popular? Now’s your chance! Check out page 10 for all the info about “The Row.”There’s a better way to score local produce: the farmers market! 
See what delicious, and nutritious, goodies you could ﬁ  nd at the Union Street Farmers Market on page 12.Get to know more about the Gainesville Improv Festival on page 11.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
DANA BURKE
Avenue Writer
Even though you stalked ISIS for the 
perfect schedule and attended all your 
classes the ﬁ  rst two weeks of the semes-ter, old habits die hard. Let’s be honest — like any good student, you’ve successful-ly managed to avoid buying “required” textbooks for the majority of your college career and have mastered the art of pro-crastination. 
You may not actually be ready for the 
semester to come, but with scholarly style your clothing will say otherwise. Dress the part, and maybe you’ll trick your pro-fessors into giving you good grades. If not, at least you’ll look good failing. 
The Collar
There’s no better way to rock a colle-
giate style than with a collared shirt. (Am I right, or am I right, frat stars?) This look has a variation of styles from polo shirts to button-ups, long-sleeved, cap-sleeved and even sleeveless.  
It’s easy to blend in on campus with 
this classic look, but you can make it a point to stand out with the details. A pocket or fun buttons can give you a subtle edge on your fellow classmates. If you like to be bold, opt for a design in a unique color, fabric or pattern. 
Pastels were popular among the new 
spring collections of 3.1 Phillip Lim and Diane Von Furstenberg, and zigzag pat-terns made statements on the runways of brands like Burberry and Dior. For the high-fashion female: Make a studious statement with these trends and turn Tur-lington Plaza into your runway.
To really be ﬁ  rst in your class when it 
comes to style, try a do-it-yourself collar.  This involves cutting a collar off an old blouse and sprucing it up with sequins, lace and any other crafty items you can think of. Peruse the Internet for inspira-tion and how-to guides.
No one will say you look stuffy when 
you’re rocking a collar that has more bling than a hip-hop star’s favorite chain. 
The Ballet Flat
The delicate balance of professional 
and casual will make or break this look.  In order to look like a student and not a secretary, keep things low-key with a fun ballet ﬂ  at. 
Opposed to ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  ops or sandals, the 
ballet ﬂ  at means business with its play-fully preppy edge.  Paired with a skinny jean or a ﬂ  owy skirt, the look will stay young and fashionable.
If an outﬁ  t lacks pizzazz in other ele-
ments, use the shoes to bring personality .  Flats in fun materials like glitter or animal print catch the eye while staying true to the shoe’s sweet simplicity.
The Blazer
Nothing says “I’m here to learn” like 
a blazer.  It’s professional, sophisticated and overall adorable when paired with the right outﬁ  t.  
Avoid looking old and drab by keep-
ing your coordinating pencil skirt tucked away only for interviews and profession-al settings.  
Instantly add a touch of class by 
throwing a blazer over a simple T-shirt and jeans or a sundress when running to class.  It’s just as easy but will set the mood for learning. 
Take the blazer out of the classroom 
and incorporate it into your nighttime wardrobe over a tight-ﬁ  tting dress for a sexy, mature look while out on the town on chilly Gainesville nights.  
The Timepiece
Punctuality is key when it comes to 
class whether it’s lecture or a due date for a paper.  
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Outside, it feels like spring or summer instead of winter - don’t let the weather trick you!Fifth Avenue Fashion: Too 
Cool for School?fashion
SEE FIFTH AVENUE, PAGE 9
Gainesville Improv Festival Schedule
Wednesday
8 p.m.
Third Thought The Apprentice GroupFormal ApologyThursday
8 p.m.
The WHOligans  Dear Aunt GertrudeDelta Group
10 p.m.
Wolodarski Cheese and Crackers 
A.I.T.Friday
8 p.m.Dummy MAD CowfordThe Sunday Group
10 p.m.
Promise Ring O’hy-o
OFFSIDESSaturday
8 p.m.3033K.A.R.L. Improv STACKED
10 p.m.
GIF All-Star ShowUnscripted Romance
Theatre Strike ForceInterested in 
checking out comedy teams from across the country? 
Here’s the sched-
ule for GIF 2012:
Saturday
K.A.R.L. Improv 
Aside from keeping the time, a watch is a great way to complete 
and pull together an outfit.  In a variety of colors, metals and sizes, 
there is a timepiece out there for everyone. 
The Cardigan
Prepare to meet your new best friend.  Just as effortless and com-
fy as your favorite sweater (and a million times more attractive), the cardigan will make its way from your closet to your heart. 
This classic silhouette adds a touch of sharpness to any look. 
Over a tank top or a dress, replacing a hoodie with a cardigan re-moves the frump from an outfit and adds sophistication, no matter the occasion.
Go with a striped pattern for a geek-chic look or a classic knit for 
a laid-back learner vibe. Either way, you’re bound to get straight As in style.   THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Making simple switches in your clothing choices can make life cuter and easier!
MICHAEL LLERENA
Avenue Writer
Major record labels were once the kingpins of 
the entire music industry. In the pre-digital age, 
fledgling artists and bands needed the security and support of a major label to promote them, to ensure proper album distribution and to basically guaran-tee their survival. 
However, this generation’s new brand of D.I.Y., 
tech-savvy musicians and music consumers has left many once-prominent labels in the dust. So the question remains: What are labels doing now?
Junior public relations major Brittany Brave is 
a college marketing representative for Sony Music Entertainment. Brave, 20, is responsible for market-ing Sony’s artist clientele to UF students and to the rest of the Gainesville community.
Brave has multiple promotions she is planning.Rapper A$AP Rocky, a recent addition to the 
Sony family, will be performing at UF alongside Drake and Kendrick Lamar at the O’Connell Center on Feb. 15 at 8 p.m. Brave is currently considering how to best cover the event.
Brave also has CD listening gatherings planned 
for label bands The Fray and The Shins in the com-ing months. The albums are expected to drop in February and March, respectively. Other bands on the label include Foster the People and Foo Fight-ers.
“The industry is very internet-heavy nowa-
days,” Brave said. “If you can get something to go viral, fans will get hooked.”
Brave uses social media tools such as Facebook 
and Twitter to promote events and artists in the Sony network.
Brave said one of her main goals is to consis-
tantly increase the number of accounts (venues and clients) that she networks with in Gainesville.
She also frequently uses more conventional 
physical marketing. Stressing physical visibility in the form of posters and other paraphernalia is still invaluable, Brave said.
“We’re at the frontlines,” Brave said. “People in 
the 18 to 24 age range have a keen sense of what’s going on in the market. It’s all about you reaching the fans of those artists.”
One of Brave’s more notable marketing cam-
paigns was the screening of Cameron Crowe’s “Pearl Jam Twenty,” a documentary chronicling the history of grunge icons Pearl Jam. The event, free and open to students, took place at the Reitz Union last October. Assorted Pearl Jam memorabilia was distributed at the event.
As of this spring semester, Brave is also a mar -
keting and promotions intern for UF’s Rock 104 on-line radio station.
Brave, an avid music enthusiast, feels a strong 
sense of commitment to her job as a college market-ing representative.
“It’s a shame when there’s good music out there 
and people can’t get to it,” she said.
While major labels remain an integral part of 
the music community, both global and local, local scenes with access to independent labels retain a distinct advantage.
Gainesville’s No Idea Records, formed in 1985, 
has put out releases from seminal Gainesville bands such as Against Me!, Hot Water Music and Less Than Jake. No Idea also sponsors a local annual music festival, The Fest, which recently celebrated its 10th anniversary.
Today, indie labels are in a position to supple-
ment where some major labels are lacking. By fo-cusing heavily on the local demographic, indie labels ensure a direct line of communication with music consumers. Moreover, local concertgoers have the opportunity to discover up-and-coming acts before anyone else. As sole distributor of many local bands’ records, these labels are also the go-to destination for music consumers within the area.
Junior anthropology major Brian Nickel is a 
drummer in local rock band Pedagogy. He said while major labels still have a place, they are defi-nitely in the midst of a decline.
“Today, anybody can record something, put it 
on YouTube and get a lot of hits,” Nickel, 21, said. “In the past, you needed a major label to provide resources. Now, those same resources are at your fingertips.”Marketing music in Gainesville is fun  Dress smarter sooner
fifth A venue , from page 8
It almost takes a 
village to market music in townKAY BEA 
Avenue Columnist
Over the weekend, I got to thinking about 
the implications of the dance club cover charge. 
Essentially an admission fare into a land of fun, the door fee resounds for most of us as a common annoyance that we overlook in order to fulfill an evening need. In some ways, the anticipation generated while waiting is better than the reality on the other side. As I stood in a meandering-yet-moving line of hopefuls unluckily absent from a promoter’s guest list, I observed a number of kiddies chattering and texting as they anxiously killed time. Even though the line had yet to cross the path of the bouncer blockade, I could detect a general sense of excitement in the dolled-up crowd. Hair and makeup had not yet been mussed by the humidity that results from gyrating hips, and untucked oxford shirts were still crisp and free of drunkie spill stains. The night was young, the mob was hot and the prospect of an epic night was still an option. 
As one who has a history of dating guys 
who either play in a rock band, create art, have ironic tattoos or over-intellectualize fashion photography (because they are hoping it will one day land them a girl on the runway… I’m on to you boys!), I will come clean and say the typical men who frequent the Midtown scene do not readily fit the “type” of guy people as-sume I’m attracted to. But let me fill you all in on another secret: Those who jump to that con-clusion are dead wrong. As much as I cannot deny the immediate (albeit frustrating) attrac-tion I have toward men likening Chris Martin, how could I possibly write off the clean-cut, J. Crew, “preppy” guy a la Chris O’Donnell cir -
ca mid- to late-’90s?  Plus, I never got to wear my super-short, tight, spaghetti-strap, sparkly dress purchased and previously designated to New Year’s Eve. It was time for some club-bing.  
(Before I go any further, let me just say that 
yes, I know that there are lots of types of peo-ple who hang out in Midtown. But for brev-ity’s sake, let me just talk broadly and gener -
alize the hell out of this area of Gainesville. Thanks.)
Let’s get back to the line outside of the club 
in Midtown. I’m watching people grow anx-ious and pumped to go inside when it occurs to me that the way into a dance club is kind 
of an odd thing. Here, there was a  large congregation of people willing to waste a chunk of their weekend on anticipation: the close-ness of a good time within view yet not quite reached. I came to the conclusion that the mystery that character -
izes the admittance process is the justification of the cover charge.  
Of course, some attendees such as ultra-
good looking girls get the go-ahead with ease, but it occurred to me that even this is part of the mystery game. Through the act of organiz-ing a hierarchy based on superficial qualities and parading those who trump the tower to the front of the line, the combination of jealou-sy and longing to get in continues to multiply with every minute spent waiting. Bouncers can play their safety card of “capacity issues,” but anyone with a brain knows that a packed club is a popular club, and a popular club is a moneymaker.
While thinking about these shenanigans, 
I reached the point where it was my turn to show some ID.  Rifling through my handbag in search of my (seemingly undercover) wal-let, I could tell the door guy was getting an-noyed by my lack of preparedness. “Lady , what have you been doing all this time in line that you couldn’t have your ID ready?” his fa-cial expression screamed after I finally found the almighty money holder. 
Having passed 21 ages ago, I was motioned 
in with the rest of the herd, stopped only once more  to pay cover. Was it worth it? You’ll have to wait until next week to find out.10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
The Art of Flying Solo, Topic 2: Cover Charge - and a Change
MOLLY VAZQUEZ
Avenue Writer
UF student Skyler Kern and alumnus Jonothon Mitchell 
teamed up to write, produce and direct the raunchy comedy 
“The Row,” which debuts tonight in Weimer Hall Room 1064 at 7 p.m. 
The film features college pressures and the battle of belong-
ing while highlighting the taboo of being gay in the Greek community . “Being homosexual in the Greek community is something 
that exists and something that can exist almost harmoniously with the fact the Greek community isn’t very accepting of ho-mosexuals at all times,” said Mitchell, 25, writer and main ac-tor.
Using some of his own experiences as a gay fraternity 
brother, Mitchell said he wanted to convey the difficulties of sometimes feeling like an outsider in his fraternity . He also wanted to shed light on the stereotype not always given to a gay man.“As member from a fraternity , I’m not all glitz and glitter 
and ‘Sex and the City,’” Mitchell said. He said sources on cam-pus don’t always gear their efforts to all kinds of gay men. 
This past spring, Mitchell wrote an article for the Alligator 
explaining his disagreement with Pride Student Union por -
traying gay men in a stereotypical way . The story received a range of reactions including extremely negative responses, he said. UF student film “The Row” debuts Thursday in Weimer Hallmovies
see row, page 11
see row , page 11“I wanted to show a somewhat 
accurate portrayal of just one per -
son’s experience of being in a frat 
and being openly gay,” he said.
Ricky Carter, 21, president of 
Pride Student Union and an English and film and media studies major, withheld his view on the story but said he thinks the film is a great step forward for the LGBTQ community.
“I personally believe that talk-
ing about a certain subject brings to light someone’s reality ,” he said. 
Carter said he hopes that Mitch-
ell will create something that shows gay stereotypes in a gay-positive light without being exaggerated. Even though Pride has already co-sponsored events with the Greek community, he thinks it’s still a rel-evant topic.
“I’m supportive and sure that 
every person in Pride is supportive of any LGBTQ filmmaker,” Carter said.
Director and producer Kern, 
22, telecommunication production major, said he wanted to shoot the movie because it was something that wasn’t done before.
“I’m OK with providing the 
outlet to push the envelope into un-charted territory,” Kern said.
He said it is important to talk 
about gay individuals in the Greek community but also wanted to start off his film-making career taking strides into different directions. 
Kern said he hopes to get laughs 
from the viewers while they also find appreciation in the storyline. He thinks comedy is the best route for the movie’s subject matter be-cause it’s the easiest way to relate the truth. 
“Through comedy , even if you’re 
not 100 percent okay with what’s being said, it’s easier to understand and come to terms with it,” he said.
Kern said he met Mitchell while 
participating in Dance Marathon last year in March. Mitchell pitched him the idea for the movie, and he immediately agreed.
Completely shot in Gainesville, 
production began in May and end-ed in July . They filmed at locations ranging from local bars to wedding boutiques, Kern said.
All the main actors in the movie are UF students or alumni. After failing to find an actor for Tyler, the main character, who is a member of Delta Alpha Kappa, Mitchell agreed to play the part.
“I saw too much of Jonothon in 
the character that it got to the point where no one could deliver the lines like he could,” Kern said. 
After filming, the duo prepared 
the film for festivals such as the Florida Film Festival, the Boston Film Festival and the Tampa Inter -
national Gay & Lesbian Film Festi-val. They will continue to send the movie to festivals after the debut.
“The cool thing, I think, about 
‘The Row’ is it’s not solely focused on the homosexual aspect of it,” Mitchell said. “I think the over -
all message is that life in college is hard.”
The movie includes the pres-
sures of long-term relationships, the hopes of losing your virginity and the trials and errors of figuring out friendships, he said. Students have to manage dealing with daily life on top of school and fitting in. 
“We all go through college, no 
matter the playing field,” Kern said.OLIVIA FELDMAN
Avenue Writer
Next week, improvisational 
theatre folk will be driving, fly-
ing or just walking down the street to TitleTown to show off their quick-thinking and sketch comedy.
Twenty-one improv groups 
will perform in the seventh an-nual Gainesville Improv Festival from Feb. 1 to Feb. 4 at the Squit-ieri Studio Theatre in the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. 
Tom O’Donnell and Skyler 
Stone, two alumni from UF and Theatre Strike Force, started the festival in 2005 and have been producing it every year since. 
“We kind of grew up [with 
TSF], so when we graduated we wanted to give back to Gainesville and show national talent what a great place Gainesville is,” O’Donnell said.
The mission of GIF, according 
to the website, is to share with the Gainesville community the cultures and traditions of the vi-brant Gainesville improvisational scene.
Many of the groups this year 
come from Florida, including Theatre Strike Force, but six of them hail from Chicago’s thriv-ing improv scene. GIF has fea-tured such prominent instructors as Jeff Griggs from iO (Impro-vOlympic) Chicago, Mark Sutton and Joe Bill, both from the Second City Chicago Training Center, ac-cording to the festival’s Facebook page. In past years, groups have come from as far away as Los An-geles. Two headliners from last year 
will be featured on Friday: 3033, which O’Donnell said is con-sidered “gurus of improv,” and Dummy, both from Chicago. Among the new acts this year are Chicago-based An Unscript-ed Romance, which consists of Lindsey Finn and Derrick Aguis improvising a fictitious relation-ship based on suggestions from the audience.
An estimated 1,200 to 1,400 
people are expected to attend GIF during the four nights.
O’Donnell said most groups 
hear about the festival by word-of-mouth.
“Over almost 15 years, we’ve 
made a lot of friendships,”he said. “We’ll let our friends know first about this event, and then they’ll tell their friends. If they 
hear it from a friend, they’re go-ing to trust it more.”
Jeff Quintana, a UF and TSF 
alumnus, and his five-man group, Promise Ring, met at the first GIF. They have all since moved to Chi-cago and have been performing together for almost two years. 
“I like that the festival is big 
but not too big,” Quintana, 29, said. “They keep things pretty or -
ganized.”
 “GIF is such a great time. You 
meet a lot of like-minded people and make great connections that could potentially be useful later,” said Liz Anderson, president of TSF. “And it’s just plain fun if you try not to let your nerves get the best of you.”  
In addition to performances, 
several improv groups will be hosting workshops in the Reitz Union on Saturday for those who want to learn more about improv and sketch comedy. Rooms for these have not been announced. 
Friday’s and Saturday’s per -
formances tend to have the big-ger names, and attendance is more likely to be larger on those two nights, Anderson said. 
Alex Trepka, a member of the 
Chicago-based improv troupe Wolodarski, will be traveling to his first GIF this year, but he hopes it won’t be his last. He, along with four other members, will be traveling to Gainesville with Promise Ring in tow.
“We’re driving down in a van 
for 18 hours,” he laughed. “We’re going to paint the town red.”
With the exception of Wednes-
day, there will be two shows a night at 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. There will be one show on Wednesday at 8 p.m. 
Tickets are available via Tick-etmaster, by phone at 352-392-ARTS or at the Phillips Center Box Office. 
General admission prices 
range from $8 to $13, and stu-dent prices range from $6 to $8, depending on which night you attend.
For more information and 
a complete schedule of perfor -
mances, visit www.gainesvil-leimprov.com, the “Gainesville Improv Festival” page on Face-book or follow @GvilleImprov on Twitter. THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
Courtesy of Wolodarski
Making a good improv team is easy! Just rehearse with your best friends.
Local improv festival to bring unscripted giggles and joy 
Movie uses humor to make example
roW , from page 10
Courtesy of “The r ow”12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
 Courtesy of Ricky Klopfenstein (from GIF 2011)
Gainesville Improv Festival allows professional performers to play pretend
Members of 3033 during their show last year. Clint Eastwood has never looked squintier.
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ 
Avenue Writer
Every Wednesday, rain or shine, a group of dedicated 
farmers flood Bo Diddley Community Plaza with tents un-
der which they sell some of the finest products Gainesville has to offer. From fresh sprouts to organic sourdough breads, there is no lack of variety at the Union Street Farm-ers Market. 
The open-air market, held every Wednesday from 4 
p.m. to 7 p.m., is a producer market, meaning the woman you buy that grapefruit from is the same woman who grew it. Quality, a prevalent theme among the farmers, is a great advantage of the market. V endors honestly care and take measures to assure that you receive nothing less than their best. Here are a few things that cannot be missed. 
Hulless organic popcorn popped in coconut oil and 
sprinkled with sea salt: no popcorn has ever been this unique and delicious. The kernels are hulled, which means they are free from those annoying little skins that always get stuck between your teeth. Stop by the Abundant Acres tent, and Rick Mitidieri will be happy to give you a sample of his delectable concoction.  Sprouts, and lots of them. Find them at 60-year-old farmers market regular Manotea’s tent. Clover radish, alfalfa, green lentil, wheat and mung bean sprouts were just the few he was selling when I paid him a visit. 
For those who are looking to become market regulars, 
there is the option of community-supported agriculture (CSA). Offered weekly by Siembra Farm, CSA is a mem-bership program that partners farmers with customers di-rectly. For $25 to $35 a week, CSA members receive a bag full of fresh produce that they can pick up at the market every Wednesday . 
“Our produce changes from week to week, but we try 
to keep it seasonal and always locally grown,” said Cody Galligan, 32, owner and farmer of Siembra Farm. 
“The advantage of CSA is developing that relationship 
with the farm and the food as well as contributing to food security ,” Galligan said. 
Black olive hummus scooped up with fresh rosemary 
sourdough bread can be sampled at Mosswood Farm Store & Bakehouse’s tent. It would be hard not to purchase a tub of their fresh, organic hummus after you have just one taste. You may even find yourself devouring the sample tub.
“We bake our organic sourdough breads in wood-fired 
brick ovens,” Mosswood Farm manager Emily Piazza ex-plained. Their breads go great not only with their hummus but also with their tabbouleh and seasonal fruit jams. 
The farmers market would not be complete without a 
few sweets, which are prominently available. Make sure to pick up a macaroon. The interesting flavor combinations are what convinces buyers to dish out the $2 for the pur -
chase, but it is their perfection that will have customers re-turning to buy three or four more for “later.” 
There are more than just edible items for sale at the mar -
ket. Monica’s Cococastile Soap is a favorite among market regulars. With more than 12 different varieties, the soaps are perfect for all-around use. They can serve as face soap, body soap, shampoo and conditioner. Don’t believe me? Stop by Monica’s Cococastile Soap tent and she will cut you up a sample. 
So take a stroll through the plaza on Wednesday after -
noons! Enjoy the live music that changes weekly. Indulge in a few free samples, and get to know the colorful local people that make it all happen.Union Street 
Farmers Market offers a unique variety of produce  
� THE THREAT OF SOPA COULD CHANGE MUSIC
MICHAEL NEWMAN
Avenue Writer
Unless you slept through last week, you’ve probably 
heard a lot of talk about digital piracy. The shutdown of 
Megaupload and the reaction by Anonymous, as well as the collective reaction to SOPA and PIPA, mark a distinct moment in American music. Let’s face it, just about all of us have listened to a song on YouTube — an activity SOPA would have liked to eliminate — and probably almost as many have downloaded copyrighted material illegally — use whatever vague, shade-of-grey language you wish to color it. In spite of the constant backlash against the recording industry for promoting such draconian legis-lation, it doesn’t come without a reasonable motive: Ac-cording to the RIAA, “only 37 percent of music acquired by U.S. consumers in 2009 was paid for.” 
That’s a reality of the music world today that affects 
everyone from record store owners and musicians to dis-tributors and label executives. But then again, the statis-tics for the top albums that did sell in that year look just as bleak: in order, Taylor Swift, “Fearless;” Susan Boyle, “I Dreamed a Dream;” and Michael Jackson, “Number Ones.” The first two speak for themselves. The third, however, deserves attention. How can we as listeners respect the recording industry’s claims that piracy hurts artists when some of the only quality music released is essentially a mix CD to profit from the drudged-up back catalog of a dead icon?
Of course it’s 2012 now, but I bring this up to forecast 
the ways in which artists and labels are adapting to the ever-changing climate of the music business. Aside from the bulldozer approach spearheaded by most major com-panies, many strategies mark the ways in which artists and labels orient themselves in relation to the “digital music revolution,” if you want to call it that. As listeners, we will see these changes take place mostly in how we buy music, how we find new music and how we see live music. Often these changes will be symbiotic. 
Most noticeably, we’ll see the continued dwindling of 
traditional music stores, especially CD stores like f.y.e. While CDs still control the lion’s share of music purchas-es, at 76 percent in 2011, the majority of them are being purchased in big box stores such as Walmart and Best Buy. However, the CD itself looks destined to become ob-solete, as MP3 downloads win for portability and vinyl wins for sound quality (and the two are being packaged together to win over the discerning buyer). 
While CD sales continue to decline, labels must find 
ways to persuade listeners to not just download the mate-rial illegally. One method I’ve seen that seems very com-pelling is to offer label podcasts, where an independent label will have artists on their roster make mixtapes or future releases from the label, giving listeners a gauge of what to expect from their current and upcoming records. 
Stones Throw Records, in particular, takes it one step 
further, offering a few recent outings and the rest as in-dividual free downloads that can be bundled with a pur -
chase on their online store. The podcasts themselves are often worth the purchase, geared toward a specific style that can often be exclusively heard through the DJ mix-es (often frustratingly so — where else can I hear some Turkish funk music?). 
Others may release video mixtapes, often ultra-spe-
cific digital music video streams, to highlight their DJs and artists. It’s a beautiful system: The labels get attention for holding all the great artists and mixes in their catalog, the DJs get attention for their mixes and the artists them-
selves get attention for their work.
Of course, the concert promoters also 
want a cut of the action, which is what brings the rise of the music-festival cul-ture that has overtaken America with comic gaudiness. Most people don’t think of the show promoter as particu-larly hurt by the Internet’s effect on the 
music industry, but think about it: If you’re an indepen-dent band, chances are you might prefer to contact ven-ues on your tour yourself and create Facebook events for them rather than find some sleazy guy to get college stu-dents to staple fliers to telephone poles for free weed. 
The answer is simple: Make shows so huge that it 
needs to be masterminded by someone. Cue the corpo-rate sponsors and fluff bands. Put it  somewhere in the middle of nowhere, and get ten headliners. 
All of a sudden, tickets are worth hundreds of dollars, 
and they sell out. 
It’s hard to tell exactly where the industry is heading, 
but I have more hope now for the future of music than I’ve had in the last few years. The piracy wars definitely aren’t going anywhere anytime soon, but at least they’ll have a good soundtrack.
Music technology faces new challenges
“Our produce changes from week to week, 
but we try to keep it seasonal and always lo -
cally grown.”
Cody Galligan
owner and farmer of Siembra FarmTHURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-25-11-72-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-25-72-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-25-11-72-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
$9.99 to sign and  $100 credit
UPGRADED 4/4 ONLY $399
Text “SANTAFE” to 47464 for more!
Now Leasing for FALL!
4-25-11-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-25-11-72-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600$99 Move In Special!352-372-7555FrederickGardens.com4-25-11-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-25-11-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
4-25-11-72-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-11114-25-11-72-2FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
4-25-72-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-25-11-72-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-25-11-72-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com4-25-11-72-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 4352-335-4455    4-25-11-72-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       4-25-11-72-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave - Across from law school
$1650-special spring rate! - 4BR/2BA
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-31-12-16-2
SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
2BR/1.5BA close to UF, Shands,Vet School
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Contact our office to
inquire about student specials!!!!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting from $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available Feb 1st.REDUCED to $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183     1-31-11-15-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099    2-6-12-21-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
1-31-12-16-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA great house. 
Fireplace, wash/dry provided, dishwasher, wood floors, fenced. Pets OK. 7 min bike to campus. $1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342. Gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-12-14-2
3BR/1.5BA in Pleasant St, historic district, 
dwntwn. Ceiling fans, wood floors. Porch, newly painted. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. $1100/mo call April. 538-1550aprleve@aol.com   1-31-12-15-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    1-31-12-14-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA large house w/ big 
bedrooms & living room, extra game room. Fenced. Pets ok. W/D provided. 352-335-2342 or text 2100 NW 8th Court. $1400/mo or go to gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-29-12-14-2
1/1 spacious apt, $500,quiet, private,trees, 
close to downtown and UF, bus to SFC, car-pet & tile, pvt. patio w/locking gate, for calm, stable, mature people.1824 NW 9th St. 352 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   2-1-12-14-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/3BA house. Incredibly 
beautiful, clean, modern house. W/D pro-vided, fireplace, vaulted ceilings, lg rooms. 2108 NW 8th Ct. Text or call 352-339-2342. $1550/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  1-27-12-9-2
AVAILABLE NOW!! 
WALK TO UF! Nice 2BR/1BA house. $450/mo. Call Richard 371-4367   1-30-10-21 BED/1 BATH. Walk to Shands/UF.
Great kitchen and bath with w/d, disposal, dishwasher. Overlooks creek and trees. Small pet ok. $535+ deposit. 352-371-9520, 352-317-2642    2-14-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    2-15-12-20-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full size hottub 
on back screened porch. W/D incl, DW, car-port. Across from one of nicest parks in Gville. 3413 NW 8th Ave. $1600/mo. Call or text 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  1-27-12-9-2
Avail Aug 1st. 1BR/1BA house, fireplace, 
wood floors, W/D, 1 block from campus.106 SW 12th St. $525/mo. Call or text 352-339-2342. website: gainesvillequalityrentalhous-es.com   1-27-12-9-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-12-9-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA nice house close to 
campus. Fireplace, wood floors, nice private backyard, W/D included. 1105 NW 10th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. $1550/mo. More info on gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-12-7-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   2-9-12-10-2BOARDWALK 2/2 $500
Tennis & Pool Community
Near UF 2701 SW 13th Street
Sublet til July 31st @ $500/mo
End Unit 980 Sq. Ft. 'Carlyle"
Compare @ $699 - $759. Move in today!
Call Sharon @ 352-215-3198
2-3-12-10-2
***5 BEDROOM HOUSE***
Walk to Campus! Wood Floors. Lots of 
Parking. All appliances included. Available Aug 15th. Call John @ 561-866-8234.   1-27-4-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   2-29-11-27-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
              ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100              ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500              ●4/3 house 3514 nw7 pl $1500              ●4/2 house 610 nw 34 ter $1200              ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15001-31-12-5-2
Tumblin' Creek condo! remodeled 1bed-
1bath, balcony, wood floors, a/c, pantry, walk/bike to uf, pets neg. $725. per/mo. University Mgt, Inc. Lic. real estate broker 373-7904   2-7-12-10-2
**MOVE IN READY** 3/2 Condo near OAKS    
MALL New laundry rm w/ W/D. Newly reno-    vated enclosed porch. New cherry wd cab-    inets. Pool. Across from N FL Reg Med Ctr. $950./mo, + utils.  $500 sec. 352.318.4948    2-1-12-5-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE
Prestigious Bivens Arm. 5BR house, Pool, & Dock. Bike or walk to Shands & UF. Serious grad students preferred. $2500/mo. Call 619-857-9903    2-22-12-20-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #3. Please call 352-371-3473 leave message.       2-22-12-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
One Bedroom Apartment to Sub-Lease 
Williamsburg Village Apartments Furnished or UnFurnished Flexible Availability 2 blocks south of Shands Hospital352-376-1253 ask for Val    1-31-12-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 1-30-11-20-4
Roommates needed. House 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row, near Shands, Tigert, Mid/Downtown. 4 lg BR/2BA. Students preferred! Huge, very clean home. Cent AC/H, FP , W/D, new wd flrs, DW, 5 extra closets, fenced yard, plenty of parking, on quiet street. Only $398/mo/room. Call/text Jordan 305-896-90661-31-19-4District on 62nd: 1/1 in female 3/3 furn apt $407/mo, incl utils credit, cable, HS internet. Near Mall, UF & SFC, on bus rte. Move in 2/1/12 w/lease end 7/31/12. Some fees apply. Criminal background check, 352-514-2942   1-31-12-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
1-30-12-15-5
CONDO FOR SALE - SPARROW
3BR/2.5BA, 2-story. Approximately 1700 sq. 
ft., completely renovated. $65,000. Please call Drew 316-4465   2-10-12-20-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
 THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
WE PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR CELL PHONES! 
REGARDLESS OF AGE OR CONDITION EVEN IF BROKEN! TECHMODO 6450 SW ARCHER RD 352-872-5881. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK!  1-31-15-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Two brand new Sealy double sized, firm mat-
tresses, bought from Sears, still in packag-ing, never used. Each cost $500 new. Make offer for one or both - call 352 337 6011.   1-31-12-5-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I BUY JUNK CARS
●●● TOP PRICES PAID!●●●
Call Anytime 352-443-11001-31-11-65-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit check!!!!Cash vehicles $999 and up!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Over 150 vehicles in stock!Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
92 Eagle Talon $999
94 Ford Taurus $99994 Toyota Camry $150098 Oldsmobile Intregue $1500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 Nissan Altima $6999
04 Nissan Sentra $699902 Toyota Camry $699904 Chevy Astro $6999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
98 Dodge Ram $3999
95 Chevy Blazer $399902 Chevy Blazer $499999 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W2 and drive home today!30 Day Warranty!No Credit Check!352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check!Cars, Trucks, SUVs & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
04 Honda Accord $7999
04 Chevy Impala $799902 Honda Odyssey $799901 Toyota Solara $7999352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
05 Dodge Durango $9999
05 Ford F150 $10,99906 Saturn Ion $11,99907 Ford Mustang $12,999352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 Dodge Neon $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $199902 Kia Spectra $299901 Olds Alero $3999352-338-1999    4-25-65-12
94 Cadillac SLS $1999
99 Acura Integra $3999099 Buick Century $399995 Chevy Camero $2500352-338-1999    4-25-65-12
97 Ford Explorer $1999
97 Landrover Discovery $299998 Chevy Venture $299998 Chevy Astro $3999352-338-1999    4-25-65-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   1-31-12-27-14
TUTORS FOR SPRING 1-on-1 tutoring at-
risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net1-31-12-15-14
A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
FT NANNIES NEEDED NOW: 18 mon/
triplets; M-F 8-5; prev. exp; LONG TERM COMMIT ONLY! Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix, & schedule to info@noah-sarknanny.com   1-27-12-15-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
help wanted,outside sales,set
appts. make sales,huge upfrontcommissions,15% monthly residualpaid weekly,monthly. instanttraining. cool internet system,sell custom phone apps. for infotext 3869313477-call 3865034463    1-27-12-5-14
Admin asst for local accountant
Organized, reliable, friendlyDuties: phone, mail, banking filing. Transportation a must10hrs/wk 7.67/hr mon/wed pref. email resume to ufmgmt@gmail.com   1-27-4-14
●●● FEMALE SMOKERS! ●●●
Do you want to quit smoking? Female
smokers needed to participate in a smokingcessation study. You may be compensated.Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com2-20-20-14Personal/Office Asst. Clerical/Office duties 
Proficient in Office 20 hrs M-F Must own ve-hicle laptop and cell phone Scheduling flex-ible Respond to MZBlack@gmail.com with cover letter and resume Compensation tbd   1-31-5-14
SMOKERS needed to participate in a study 
conducted by UF smoking lab assessing ef-fects of physical activity on cigarette crav-ings. COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    1-26-2-14
Equipment Recovery Technicians Needed
We are currently seeking equipment recovery techs who can work evenings and Saturdays living within 30 mile radius of Gainesville or Ocala. Candidates must have reliable trans-portation, cell phone and a computer with internet access. Needs to be able to pass background check, drug screen and have a valid drivers license and insurance. For more information please contact Jay Erickson at jay@universalcollectionsystems.com.   2-1-5-14
Part time help needed at Horse farm. 
Afternoon and weekend hours available. Duties include feeding, cleaning stalls, turning out horses, and general barn work. Previous experience required. Please emailrachel@starquarry.com   1-30-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop Monday - Thursday, 1/30 – 2/2.  Verbal on M, W 5-7 pm, Math on T,R 5-7 pm.   To register and learn the room location, go to the TC website www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on “Study Skills & GRE Workshop.”   1-30-5-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Gainesville Equestrian facility, Cheney Walk 
Farm, now has limited Full or Training Board available. We also have a trainer available who is currently training two Olympic level Pentathletes.Full board starts at $600.00 per month. For more info call: Sandy - 352-494-1710 or visit: www.cheneywalkfarm.com.   1-31-12-5-24HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    1-31-12-12-15
HOUSE SITTER AVAILABLE
Responsible, 50 year-old male, non-smok-er, non-drinker. No pets, but likes them. References avaiilable. Call 914-282-4921    2-1-12-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   2-15-12-25-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Lacrosse Exhibition 
The Gators women’s lacrosse team plays a home 
exhibition tonight at 6:30 against England in Dizney Stadium.  See story online at alligatorSports.org. Gators to Wear Custom Uniforms
Florida’s basketball team will wear Nike’s new Hyper Elite Platinum jerseys against Tennessee on Feb. 11. The custom uniforms are only being worn this year by select Nike-sponsored teams that have won championships. Florida freshman Taylor Burke is the goalkeeper for the soccer team but is also proving herself in another sport. See story, page 18.
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
After going 0-of-4 from distance against LSU, guard Kenny Boynton’s streak of 34 straight 
games with a three ended, and he no longer leads the nation in made 3-pointers.
� UF PLAYS OLE MISS TONIGHT AT 7.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Kenny Boynton had ended 12 other games 
in his UF career before last Saturday without 
a 3-pointer, but that didn’t register immedi-ately with his shocked teammates.
It had been nearly a year since they previ-
ously saw Boynton hit nothing but glass and iron from behind the arc.
Following Florida’s home win against 
LSU, the news broke to senior guard Erving Walker that Boynton’s 34-game streak with at least one 3-pointer had been snapped on a 0-of-4 night from outside.
“Oh, I didn’t even know it. Wow,” Walk-
er said. “He’ll start another one back up soon.”
Sophomore guard Scottie Wilbekin didn’t 
realize it either. 
Ahead of tonight’s road game against Ole 
Miss (13-6, 3-2 Southeastern Conference) at 7 p.m., Boynton, a junior, was just five con-secutive games away from tying Lee Hum-phrey’s school record. 
“No, I didn’t,” Wilbekin said. “He didn’t have a three last night or 
something? That’s something. I didn’t even know about that.”
The No. 14 Gators (15-4, 3-1 SEC) have 
become accustomed to seeing the 6-foot-2 Boynton light up the 3-point line this sea-son.
His 66 threes led the nation until his most 
recent showing allowed three other players to slip past him in the rankings.
“He kept telling me the whole entire time on the bench, ‘Coach, I need one more shot,” UF coach Billy Donovan joked. “I don’t even know if Kenny realized it during the game, and I didn’t realize it. 
“It was one of those games; we didn’t 
shoot the ball well [against LSU], and I thought Kenny had some pretty decent looks.”
Since SEC play has started, consistent 
3-point shooting has been a problem for not only Boynton, but his team as well.
While Florida’s 202 threes are still the 
most in the NCAA, the Gators have shot be-low both their season shooting percentage and made 3-pointers per game average in three of their four SEC games.
“Every team is going to guard you differ -
ently,” Donovan said. 
“Maybe in years past, Kenny, if he had 
missed a few shots like that he could have gotten discouraged.”
Aside from Boynton, Donovan said he 
also hasn’t seen a change in the rest of his team’s shot selection.
So far in conference play, 44.2 percent 
of Florida’s shots have been 3-pointers.The Gators’ season average is 43.9 percent, which is ninth highest in the nation, accord-ing to Kenpom.com.
“It all varies,” Donovan said. “Someone’s 
asked me how many 3-point shots do you want to take a game? Clearly the last few Florida’s three-point shooting cooling off during SEC play
JONATHAN CZUPRYN
Alligator Writer
 
Michelle Moultrie is in a class of her 
own.
The turbulent storm that was the off-
season swept away eight Gators, includ-
ing the winningest senior class in Flori-da history. Left behind is Moultrie, the lone senior who now anchors a youthful squad with high hopes.
Moultrie shined last season, setting 
six UF single-season records, including batting clip (.443) and hits (101). Her All-American season culminated in a trip to the Women’s College World Se-ries where, despite UF losing in the fi-nals, she captured Co-Most Outstanding 
Player honors. 
However, the 
Gators’ lineup also featured All-Ameri-
cans Kelsey Bruder and Aja Paculba, as well as All-South-eastern Conference players Stephanie Brombacher and Me-
gan Bush. With those 2011 seniors gone, all eyes are on Moultrie.
“She has really taken on and UF looking to lone senior 
Moultrie for leadership Whenever Florida coach Will Mus-
champ speaks, I listen. Then I take it with a grain of salt.
So when Muschamp was asked back in 
September about his recruiting philosophy , given his ties to Texas and other areas in the Southeast, I was all ears.
“We’re going to take care of the state of 
Florida,” Muschamp said. “That’s where we’re going to win championships, with the players from the state of Florida.”
When you look at the Gators’ current crop 
of recruits — a class that has 20 members, in-cluding six already enrolled in classes – half of the players currently committed to Mus-champ’s first full recruiting class are from out-side of the talent-rich state of Florida.
Of the 100 best prospects in the nation, as 
rated by Rivals.com, 18 are from the Sunshine State (more than any other state). Of those 18, only three are committed to UF.
Although Muschamp said he’s going to win with Florida players, I can’t fault him for the way he has recruited the state this year. He has done an admi-rable job building strong relationships in his first full year, 
and he is doing something with this class that it often seemed former coach Urban Meyer didn’t do: recruit the team’s needs.
While Meyer was focused on putting to-
gether the “fastest team in America” during his Florida tenure — at least nine of his 27 signees in 2010 reportedly ran a 4.5-second-or-better 40-yard dash — Muschamp is instead focused on assessing Florida’s needs. And some of those are best filled by going outside of Florida.
Linebackers and special teams coach D.J. Gators recruiting needs, not states
Tom Green
twitter: @tomas_verdeSee hoopS, p AGe 19
See Tom, p AGe 18See SofT , pAGe 18moultrie
The Tom GReeN Sho W“He kept telling me the whole en-
tire time on the bench, ‘Coach, I need 
one more shot.”
Billy Donovan
UF coachDurkin has helped more than anyone in that regard. 
Durkin has essentially pillaged North Carolina, help-ing land four oral commitments from the state, three of whom help fill a major need on the line of scrimmage.
Defensive ends Jonathan Bullard (the No. 1 end in 
the nation) and Alex McCalister give the Gators added depth along a defensive line that struggled with num-bers last season, while D.J. Humphries, the top offen-sive tackle in the nation, is the type of recruit that can start immediately at UF and help fill a gap on what was a makeshift offensive line in 2011.
The Gators also have three other out-of-state pros-pects that will help solidify the defensive line next season: four-star Mississippi JUCO defensive tackle transfer Damien Jacobs, who signed in December, and a pair of three-star recruits from Georgia in Quinteze Williams and JaFar Mann.
So while Muschamp may have just been firing up 
boosters and fans when he said he was going to win championships with players from Florida, he is staying true to something else he said last season.
“We need to get better on both lines of scrimmage,” 
Muschamp said, “because until you do that, it’s going to be very difficult to beat the teams in our league.”
With the job he has done this year, winning in his 
second year just got a little easier for Muschamp.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
Track aND FIELD
KYLE EVERS
Alligator Writer
 
Athletes at the collegiate lev-
el devote much of their time to 
the athletic events they compete in — Florida freshman Taylor Burke is no different, except she has it twice as hard. 
Burke plays goalkeeper on the 
women’s soccer team in the fall, and she is currently competing in the high jump for track and field. At the Alabama Invitational two weeks ago, the first track meet of her collegiate career, she placed fourth in her event.
Burke has been competing in 
the high jump since the seventh grade. At Medina High School in Medina, Ohio, she won three state championships and she also holds the state’s all-time high school record.
“Taylor Burke opened up 
in the high jump this weekend,  [1.79m/5-10.50], which is one of the top four jumps in school history ,” coach Mike Holloway said. “Pretty good for a young lady who spent all fall playing goalie for the soccer team.” 
On Tuesday , Burke was 
named the Southeastern Confer -
ence Co-Women’s Freshman of the Week following her perfor -
mance on Sunday at the Gator Invite. The meet was her sec-ond NCAA meet and she took first in her event with a jump of 1.79m/5-10.50. 
“Preparing is just like think-
ing about what coach has been stressing at practice and before the meet ... just thinking about what coach has been telling me and focusing on that,” Burke said. “But when I start my ap-proach, my mind just kind of goes blank.” 
She says that when she jumps, 
she tries to think as little as possi-ble about the act, because then it becomes a more natural process.
Burke will be competing on 
Friday at the 
Big 12 vs. SEC vs. Pac-12 Challenge at Texas A&M, and she will have UF’s high jump record in the back 
of her mind. She hopes to break the record of 1.85m/6-0.75 as a freshman so she can continue to challenge herself to set new ones every year. 
Burke has her eyes set on her 
future in both of her athletic en-deavors and is optimistic about where her athletic career may take her. 
“Maybe playing in the World 
Cup or going to the Olympics would be pretty cool,” Burke said “Whichever comes first, I guess.” UF’s Burke clearing 
the bar in two sportsTOM , from page 17
Gators dub Moultrie ‘The Silent Leader’
embraced that leadership type role 
that she didn’t have in previous years, [because] she didn’t have to,” coach Tim Walton said. “She has re-ally stepped up into that role.”
Moultrie has not used her spot-
light to become a vocal leader; in-stead, she allows her play to do the talking.
“Being in the top of the lineup, I 
have to be a good example [by] trying to get on base and stay within myself and who I am,” Moultrie said. “I’m not Kelsey Bruder as a hitter. I have to stay within what I can do.”
Leading the 2011 USA Women’s 
National Team to the Gold Medal at the 2011 Pan American Games and helping Florida to three consecutive WCWS appearances, Moultrie has already proven her play to the seven incoming freshmen, who come in ranked as the No. 1 class in the na-tion, according to ESPN Rise. 
Jessica Damico, one of those high-
ly touted freshmen, defined Moult-rie without even playing a game with her.
“Our senior, Michelle, without 
talking, she’s a leader,” Damico said. 
The sophomores and juniors also 
share the freshman’s impression of Moultrie being the silent and pow-erful captain. Sophomore Cheyenne Coyle saw firsthand Moultrie’s lead-ership qualities throughout last sea-son. 
“Michelle is a great leader by ex-
ample,” Coyle said. “People will just sit and be quiet to watch Michelle. And if Michelle does say something, everybody is dead quiet and they listen. But definitely Michelle is the silent leader.”
Losing the seniors was a major 
blow to the Gators, which are now forced to lean more on the inexperi-enced players. However, the Gators believe as long as Moultrie performs on the field, the remainder of the team will learn by just watching and will be inspired to keep up.
Walton said he doesn’t feel like 
he has the No. 2 team in the nation right now, though that’s where the USA Today/NFCA Coaches poll rates Florida. He relies on Moultrie to prove UF is worthy of that top-two ranking and possibly catapult the team to a fifth straight WCWS appearance. 
Though Moultrie has been 
dubbed “The Silent Leader” by her teammates, she does sometimes get vocal about things.
When asked if Moultrie will con-
tinue to lead the Gators at the top of the lineup, Walton said “I asked Mi-chelle if she wants to bat one or two, and she said one. So we’re batting her one. And that’s the truth.”
SOFTBaLL , from page 17
Burke
years we were not a great shooting team. I would 
consider us an average shooting team, and I think our percentages reflected that. But we have better shooters (this year).”
Though Boynton saw his streak end last week, he 
may have the op-portunity to start another against an Ole Miss team 
struggling to contain opposing shooters. 
Entering Thursday, the Rebels’ 126 allowed 
3-pointers were tied with South Carolina for the most an SEC team has given up this season. 
“[Boynton] understands the length and how long 
the game is,” Donovan said. “He’s kind of kept his composure and he’s played through a lot of those tough shooting nights, but he hasn’t had a lot of them.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org.Ole Miss allowing 
most threes in SEC THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 19
Women’s Tennis
ELI MARGER
Alligator Writer
 
For Florida, Wednesday afternoon 
brought a new beginning, a milestone, 
and more of the dominance to which the team has become accustomed.
The No. 1 Gators (1-0) defeated 
Troy (0-3) in a clean sweep, 7-0.  Florida shook off some rust and looked sharp against the overmatched Trojans. The victory marked the 250th of coach Ro-land Thornqvist’s Florida career. The coach downplayed his achievement and instead focused on the many posi-tives from the match.
“I thought we played well,” Thorn-
qvist said. “Obviously, that’s more important than any of the numbers. We’ve become a better ball-striking game, and I think today the girls struck the ball very, very well. Sharp on all the courts, really.”
The Gators opened the afternoon 
by winning all three doubles matches. While the No. 10 team of Allie Will and Sofie Oyen received some resistance on Court 1, Florida’s other two pairings did not lose a single game. 
The teams of Lauren Embree and 
Joanna Mather, and Alex Cercone and Olivia Janowicz both defeated their op-ponents 8-0. Will and Oyen finished off their opponents 8-3 after a slow start.
“We had to get used to each other, 
because we hadn’t played together for a couple months. We practiced just once,” Oyen said. “So the beginning was a little diffi-cult.”
After securing 
the doubles point, the Gators carried their momentum into singles. Florida came out with a slightly different line-up, one without one of their top singles players. 
With No. 4 Joanna Mather out of the 
rotation to allow others more playing time, Caroline Hitimana filled in at the No. 6 slot. The junior performed admi-rably, dispatching Samya El Hsissen, 6-0, 6-1, clinching the match for Florida and continuing a strong start to the spring.
No. 25 Lauren Embree breezed 
through her match against Troy’s Olfa Dhaoui, 6-0, 6-0 to claim the first singles match of the afternoon. Em-bree was hardly challenged during the match, and was the first Gator off the court in singles. She was followed by No. 34 Sofie Oyen, who also defeated her opponent in straight sets, 6-1, 6-2.
Immediately after Hitimana 
clinched the match, sophomore Olivia Janowicz defeated Candela Munoz Gi-ron, 6-1, 6-2. Each of the Gators won in straight sets, and aside from a few mishits, the match belonged almost en-tirely to the No. 1 team in the nation. 
No. 3 Allie Will defeated Troy’s 
Karoline Grymel, 6-2, 6-1, while No. 41 Alex Cercone took care of Lyubov Dorofeeva, 6-2, 6-0 to finish the day for Florida. 
“We looked sharp at the end, really 
got better as the match went along,” Thornqvist said.
Thornqvist reaches 250 wins in Troy sweep  
hoops , from page 17
Thornqvist
UF Men’s Bask etball20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 2012
