VOLUME 106 ISSUE 102 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Former police ofﬁ  cer sued over videotaping allegation
Seven people say they were ﬁ  lmed secretly in their homes, pg 3. 
Alligator endorses Students Party 
Elections are Tuesday and Wednesday, pg 6.  Inpatient eating disorder center opens
The Shands at UF facility will treat disorders in 
adults and adolescents, pg. 5. 
Whose team 
are you rooting 
for this season? 
Read about "The 
Voice" and its 
all-star judges on 
page 12.
82/59
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17Rachel Crosby / Alligator
UPD ofﬁ  cer John Savona stands behind police tape at North Hall where a student attempted suicide on Wednesday 
afternoon, according to police.
  TYLER JETT
 Alligator Staff Writer
 
  University Police closed the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor of North Hall 
for about six hours Wednesday after a student attempted suicide.
  Ofﬁ  cers responded to a call at 12:12 p.m. indicating a 
man had been stabbed in the neck. He was found in the shower, and paramedics brought him to Shands at UF, Maj. Brad Barber said. Barber added he could not com-ment on the condition of the student, whose name was not released due to the sensitivity of the circumstance.
  Ofﬁ  cers originally believed someone attacked the stu-
dent, but after interviews with people at the scene, UPD concluded he tried to take his own life, Barber said. The department doesn’t expect to ﬁ  le any criminal charges.
  One student said when he went to take a shower 
around 10 a.m. Wednesday, the bathroom ﬂ  oor was ﬂ  ooded when he walked in and another shower was run-ning. When he later left the bathroom, the water was still running, but he merely thought it odd, not dangerous. He did not look in the stall.
  Police cars and a forensics truck spent the afternoon  First ﬂ  oor of North Hall closed after student attempts suicide
SEE NORTH, PAGE 4
  JULIA GLUM
 Alligator Writer
  Students who walk into the Peace Corps 
ofﬁ  ce on UF’s campus often walk out with 
their minds far from Gainesville.
  The university’s Peace Corps program, 
which places American volunteers in foreign countries, recently ranked second in the na-tion in overall number of volunteers. This is UF’s second consecutive year at No. 2.
  This year, UF needed three more people 
to claim the top overall spot, which is held by the University of Washington, said recruiter Amy Panikowksi.
  UF's 30 graduate division volunteers 
ranked No. 1 in 2011. The 101 self-reported undergraduate students ranked No. 4. 
  Panikowski ensures that applicants have 
as much access to her as necessary.
  “They know I care about where they’re going and what they’re teaching,” she said.
  The application process can last from 
about four to 15 months, Panikowski said.
  Applicants range from freshmen to se-
niors and Gainesville community members to UF staff. The program accepts all majors.
  Many students learn about the program 
via word-of-mouth, Panikowski said.
  “They tell people what they’re doing and 
why they’re doing it, and then there are other people wanting to do the same,” she said.
  UF alumna and professor Jennifer Gillett-
Kaufman volunteered in Morocco from 1998 to 2000.
  She wrote in an email that she recom-
mends the Peace Corps to students.
  “It was one of the most meaningful ex-
periences of my life,” Gillett-Kaufman said. “With Amy’s enthusiasm, I understand why we have one of the best recruiting pro-grams.”  UF Peace Corps program ranks 
second in volunteer numbers
� TOO MUCH GYM TIME CAN BE 
SYMPTOM OF EATING DISORDER.
CASEY MACIOGE
 Alligator Contributing Writer
  As students make plans to travel to 
tropical destinations for Spring Break, 
many seek unrealistic short-term goals of becoming beach-ready, often risking their long-term health.
  Briana Bostwick, UF public relations 
senior and operations supervisor for Southwest Recreation Center, is familiar with this ritual.
  “A week or so before Spring Break, 
the gym is ﬂ  ooded with people trying to lose weight really fast,” Bostwick, 21, said. “I have heard many girls complain about not being ‘beach ready’ and the male patrons talking about how they need to ‘bulk up.’”
  The pressure to reach a goal weight 
within a limited time can have detrimen-tal results.
  “I have had to give sugar packets to 
a student who had not worked out in a long time,” Bostwick said. “She worked out on a cardio machine until she be-came lightheaded. She had to sit by the front desk until she could stand up.”
  Excessive exercising could be a symp-
tom of an eating disorder, according to the UF Department of Psychiatry’s web-site.
  The department opened its inpatient 
facility of the Eating Disorder Recovery Center at Shands at UF on Tuesday.
  Anna Daggs, a 22-year-old pre-med 
junior, works closely with the center. A year ago, Daggs started a student-run  Rapid weight loss for Spring 
Break poses health risks
SEE WEIGHT, PAGE 4Student found in 
shower; ﬂ  oor closed for about six hoursNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 102 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Rachel Rowan, Nika Zecevic
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett,   
  David Williams
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 A
dvertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Florida Alternative Breaks Meet 
and Greet
Today, 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.Peabody Hall, Room 411Come to the meet and greet to learn more about FAB. Members of the board will be there to answer questions about upcoming spring break trips as well as any questions about the organization. Learn how to apply for trips as there are still spots available for Spring Break 2012.
A Responsibility to Protect the 
World – Do You Have R2P?Today, 6 p.m.Reitz Union, fourth floor, Matthews SuiteA panel of professionals will discuss if and why the U.S. and its citizens have a responsibil-ity to protect others around the world from humanitarian crises. The panel will include UF political science professor Lynn Leverty and Don Kraus, the CEO of Citizens for Global Solutions, an advocacy non-profit based in Washington, D.C. Visit facebook.com/FLGlobalSolutions for more information on the featured 
speakers.
A few blocks over, a world apart
Today, 6:30 p.m.
La Casita, 1504 W University Ave.Hear the stories of migrant farm workers and poverty in Gainesville from someone who works in the community to help people. Please bring non-perishable items listed on the Facebook event page. There will be free food and prizes.
Florida Alternative Breaks 
Online Auction10 a.m. - Traditional services1 p.m. - Shabbat Lunch. Lunch is $10 per person (free for stu-dents) and reservations are required. Rabbi Telushkin will discuss his book, “Hillel: If Not Now, When?”6 p.m. - Seudah Shlishit, the third meal. Reservations re-quested.7 p.m. - Havdallah7:30 p.m. - Rabbi Telushkin will speak about his book, “Jewish Humor: What the Best Jewish Jokes Say About the Jews.”A dessert reception will fol-low.To make reservations, please call the UF Hillel at 352-372-2900.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly for -
matted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Today through Wednesday at midnight.
FAB will hold an online auc-tion to raise money for stu-dent service trips. To view the auction, visit www.fabauction.org. Items in-clude donations from busi-nesses such as Sarkara Sweets, Maude’s Classic Cafe, Gainesville Health and Fitness, TutoringZone and more. For more information on the auctions or our service trips, send an email to flor -
idaalternativebreaks@gmail.
com.
Shabbatwith Rabbi Telushkin
Friday, 6 p.m. to 10 p.m.
UF Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.6 p.m. - Judaism and the Law7:30 p.m. - Reform, Conservative and Traditional services8:45 p.m. - Shabbat Dinner. Dinner is $20 per person (free for students) and reser -
vations are required for com-munity members.10 p.m. - Lecture on Eco-Kashrut and what Judaism says about treating vulner -
able populations.For all reservations please call UF Hillel at 352-372-2900.
Shabbat with Rabbi 
TelushkinSaturday, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.UF Hillel, 2020 W University Ave.
PARTLY
CLOUDY
82/59RAIN
76/56THUNDER
STORMS
77/59RAIN
69/40PARTLY
CLOUDY
69/49MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Writer
The City of Gainesville, a for -
mer Gainesville Police chief and 
a former GPD officer are being sued for allegations related to the secret videotaping of several women, some of whom were na-ked while they were filmed.
Attorney Cherie Fine filed the 
suit on behalf of Theresa Loree Henson, a Gainesville resident in 2007 and 2008. Henson is among seven people who were identi-fied as being taped by former of-ficer Brett Robison, according to court documents.
The complaint states that Ro-
bison taped Henson without her knowledge or permission while she was naked in her Landing Apartments bedroom.Documents state Robison 
used the Driver and Vehicle In-formation Database to look up Henson’s address. He drove to her apartment in a patrol car while in uniform and on duty , the documents state.
The action is for damages in 
excess of $15,000, which includes Henson’s pain and suffering, mental anguish and loss of ca-pacity for the enjoyment of life.
The complaint states the city 
and former police chief, Norman Botsford, should have foreseen and prevented officers’ inap-propriate use of the database system. A woman who was in a relationship with Robison found DVDs that had recordings of women who were dressing in their apartments, according to court documents. Former officer sued for 
illegal videotapingscrime
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Writer
An Ocala man was tack-
led three times and tased by 
a Gainesville Police officer on Tuesday night after the officer found cocaine on him.
Earl Peterson, 53, also known 
as “Baby Cool,” was arrested on a charge of resisting arrest, pos-session of cocaine and battery on an officer, according to a GPD ar -
rest report.
The report said Peterson was 
riding his bike around the 100 block of Southeast Ninth Street without bike lights in the mid-dle of the road around 7:50 p.m. When he was pulled over, officer Shawn Barnes asked for Peter -
son’s ID. When Peterson pulled out his wallet, a dime-bag of co-caine fell out, according to the report.The officer tried to handcuff 
Peterson, but he squirmed and used his elbows to get away from Barnes, according to the report. Peterson went for the cocaine and was tackled.
While on the ground, Peterson 
ignored orders to put his hands behind his back and stood up.
Barnes tackled Peterson a sec-
ond time, and 
he elbowed Barnes again.
Peterson  
got up and ran southeast even though he was told to stop.
Once the of-
ficer caught up 
to Peterson, the officer tackled him a third time.
According to the report, Pe-
terson was then tased because he was doing everything he could to avoid arrest. 
Barnes tased Peterson three 
to four times before Peterson fi-nally gave up.
During the arrest, neighbors 
said there were 10 police cars parked on both sides of the street, and police left Peterson’s pack of 305’s Menthols and purple light-er on the hood of a car parked nearby. A neighbor threw them away.
While Peterson was searched, 
police officers found the dime-bag of cocaine and a cut straw in his left jacket pocket, accord-ing to the report, and both field-tested positive.
Peterson is currently on pro-
bation in Georgia. As of Wednes-day night, he was in the Ala-chua County Jail with a bond of $24,000.
Ocala man arrested on charges of 
cocaine possession and battery 
Peterson
CHRIS ALCANTARA
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Gainesville-based women’s 
roller derby league will be able 
to compete nationally now that it has been picked to join a national skating apprenticeship program.
The Gainesville Roller Rebels 
was one of 13 leagues accepted into the Women’s Flat Track Derby Association’s Apprentice Membership Program following a six-month application process.
“This is an amazing op-
portunity for GRR to compete against some of the best roller derby teams in the country,” said Miriam Hill, president of the Gainesville Roller Rebels, in a statement Tuesday.
As a league in the apprentice-
ship program, the Roller Reb-els will be eligible to compete against other apprentice leagues from across the nation.
The league will be paired with 
a veteran league that will men-tor the Roller Rebels through the program’s rules and regulations, according to the program’s web-site.
Adrienne Fagan, vice presi-
dent of the Roller Rebels, said the league has wanted to apply for the apprenticeship program since last year.“We were beating teams we 
would never thought in a million years we would be able to win against,” she said. “Our momen-tum from last year really helped us build a very strong season this year.”
Fagan said in order to be ac-
cepted into the program, the program’s board of directors re-views each application based on business relations with venues and sponsors as well as feedback from past competitors.
The Roller Rebels will be 
granted full membership once requirements from the national organization are met.
These requirements include 
hosting a hometown event against a full-member league, Fa-gan said.
The Gainesville Roller Reb-
els has 40 active female skaters. Half are current UF students, she said.
Each member pays to be part 
of the team.
But the motive to play goes be-
yond the money.
“That’s the thing about roller 
derby,” Fagan said. “Everyone does it because they love it.”
Torrie Higgins, a 26-year-old 
applied physiology and kinesiol-ogy doctorate student, said she is excited about the Roller Rebels’ new direction.
“It’s a huge opportunity for 
us,” she said. “It’s a huge marker to show all the hard work we put in the past few years.”4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
Courtesy of Gainesville Roller Rebels / Dana John Hill
LeBrawn Maimes of the Gainesville Roller Rebels secures lead jammer position in a jam against the 
Thunder City Derby Sirens on Oct. 23, 2011. The women’s roller derby league has been picked to join a national skating apprenticeship program.
Gainesville roller derby team eligible to compete nationally
� THE EVENT BEGINS AT 7 P.M. 
DAVID A. MURPHY
Alligator Contributing Writer
The 23rd annual Florida Invita-
tional Step Show is going  “Back to 
the Basics” this year.
The weekend begins with a 
kick-off event Friday and con-cludes with FISSFest and the step show.
“We have really gone out of our 
way this year to explain why FISS is important, to teach them about black history and the history and legacy and traditions of the Na-tional Pan-Hellenic Council,” said Shaniqua Thompson, executive director of FISS.
Beat boxer and rapper Doug E. 
Fresh will host the show.
To help set the mood for Sat-
urday night’s event, FISSFest, for -
merly known as Greek Fest, will take place from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Flavet Field.
The step show will take place 
Saturday at the O’Connell Cen-ter. Doors open at 6 p.m., and the event begins at 7 p.m.
Jaleesa Green, a 19-year-old ac-
counting sophomore, said this will be her fifth time attending FISS. Her aunts used to take her when she was younger.
She described FISS as “a won-
derful experience, even if you don’t know about the organiza-tions.”
Thompson said this year’s FISS 
has several surprises in store for attendees.
She said, “Expect to be enter -
tained. It’s going to be one of those things that you go home and you tell people about.”Doug E. Fresh to host 
23rd annual step show Saturday at O'DomeStudent's condition not released
parked in front of the dorm, 
which is located on Stadium Road next to Gator Corner Dining Center. 
Students crowded on the 
lawn by one of the dorm’s entrances, many of them asking each other what hap-pened. 
Few people seemed to 
know.
Police officers and De-
partment of Housing and Residence Education offi-cials would only say some-one was injured.
Officers roped off both en-
trances to the hall with cau-tion tape, and students who live on the floor were unable to go inside to grab books or notes they needed for classes. Keegan Delanoy, a 19-year-old mechanical engineering freshman, had to show up to his Calculus 2 and Computer Aided Graphics and Design classes unprepared.
The first floor was re-
opened at 6:15 p.m. noRtH , from page 1
Regular exercise, eating breakfast 
helps maintain healthy metabolism
organization called Be Real that works with UF 
and the center to help students with eating dis-orders find the care they need.
“I have witnessed people go too far,” she said. 
“I have seen friends faint from a lack of food due to dieting all day to fit into a dress that night.”
She said she’s heard students talk about go-
ing running instead of eating dinner and going on week-long fruit-juice fasts to lose weight.
There are better ways for students to reach 
their weight-loss goals, she said.
Daggs recommended getting more exercise 
and eating breakfast to jump-start metabolism.Some signs that might signal an eating disor -
der include a withdrawn attitude, exercise and food obsessions, not eating in front of people, being upset or moody all the time, counting cal-ories and fad dieting.
Students interested in learning more about 
Be Real can check  out the organization on Fa-cebook or visit the blog at berealuf.wordpress.com.WeiGHt , from page 1“She worked out on a cardio machine 
until she became lightheaded. She had 
to sit by the front desk until she could 
stand up.”
Briana Bostwick
UF public relations seniorGroup one of 13 leagues accepted to program
“We have really gone 
out of our way this year 
to explain why FISS is               
important, to teach them 
about black history and 
the history and legacy and   
traditions of the National 
Pan-Hellenic Council.”
Shaniqua Thompson
executive director of FISSSuicide Prevention info
Students considering suicide 
— or friends of such students — can call the UF Counseling and Wellness Center at 352-392-1575. Emergency appoint-ments are available on week-days from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., and an on-call telephone response is available at any time.
Students can also contact 
the Alachua County Crisis Cen-ter at 352-264-6789. A tele-phone counselor answers di-rectly 24 hours a day. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
HEALTH
KELSEY GRENTZER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The first university inpatient 
treatment program for eating disor -
ders in Florida opened at Shands at 
UF on Tuesday.
The Eating Disorder Recovery 
Center, located at Shands Vista on Northwest 39th Avenue, offers 24/7 care for patients with anorexia, bu-limia and other eating disorders.
Before the center officially 
opened, the hospital offered only outpatient services for eating dis-order patients. The outpatient ser -
vices at the center began in the fall, said Dr. Kevin Wandler, a psychia-trist and director of the center.
The center offers treatment for 
adolescents and adults.
The program features a com-prehensive approach to treatment, with experts ranging from expres-sive therapists and dietitians to specialists in internal medicine, he said.
The biggest expense in establish-
ing the new inpatient program was adding staff to the team. Wandler, who moved from Arizona to start the program, said 12 to 15 new staff members were hired to get the pro-gram running.
Wandler said college students 
tend to be affected by eating dis-orders much more than other age groups. He said 10 percent of col-lege women have an eating disor -
der.
“College is pretty stressful just 
in itself, let alone if you have an eat-ing disorder you’re trying to over -
come,” he said.Samantha Aybar, a 19-year-old 
psychology sophomore, said the new center seems like it could be a useful resource for college stu-dents.
“Being in college, students have 
a lot of stress,” she said, “so if they resort to eating disorders, this could help them get rid of bad habits and give them better ways of dealing with stress.”
Inpatient eating disorder treatment facility opens at Shands
BLAINE KRIVACEK
Alligator Contributing Writer
The anti-Jewish pogrom, a one-month-
long Eastern European prelude to the 
Holocaust, often goes unremembered.
Jeffrey Kopstein, a political science 
professor at the University of Toronto, will be at UF Hillel tonight to give some insight into the historical event’s causes and effects. The lecture, “Intimate Vio-lence: Anti-Jewish Pogrom as Prelude to the Holocaust,” begins at 7 p.m.
Pogrom is a term used to describe a violent riot against a minority group and most often refers to 19th and 20th century attacks on Jewish people.
The pogrom Kopstein refers to hap-
pened during a one-month period in 1941. Neighbors were being killed by neighbors, not Nazis. 
“Many people were killed by people 
they knew, people they worked with, people they would go to parties with,” Kopstein said.
He said it’s important to understand 
pogroms because it’s relevant to recent events in Rwanda and Yugoslavia.Speaker to talk historical  
anti-Jewish violence at Hillel
� PRIZES INCLUDE A TRIP TO MEXICO.
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Contributing Writer
Maxx Yellin is urging people to expose 
themselves on his website, but he’s not look-
ing for adult-only material.
The 21-year-old UF sports management se-
nior’s brainchild, LoadnV ote.com, is a website where users can upload pictures, videos and captions to compete for prizes.
About half of the site’s contests call for 
a skill like “original unique talent” or “best original song.” The rest, however, require little more than a camera, such as a contest for fun-ny baby faces.“We make sure there’s contests for every-
one,” Yellin said.
Yellin and two childhood friends founded 
the site. It went live Feb. 2 and had 500 accounts and 25,000 page views after the first week.
Users who are musicians, comedians or 
other artists can use the site to get publicity.
Mitchell Schepps, however, is only looking 
for sun exposure. The 21-year-old finance and actuarial science junior said he entered a cap-tion contest to win a Spring Break trip. 
He heard about the website when someone 
in his statistics class mentioned the opportu-nity to win a trip for two to Mexico.
“I didn’t think it was real,” he said. “All you 
had to do was enter a caption and you could get it.”UF student’s website offers 
prizes for original contentReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR40 TOTAL VOTES40% YES
60% NOWednesday’s question: Do you enjoy 
swing dancing?Today’s question: Did you go to the Drake concert? Season for Change
Alligator endorses 
Students Party
We have received very impressive platforms from 
both Student Government parties during the past week, and there are a lot of things on each platform 
we believe would be a positive improvement for UF and its students.
Surprisingly, there are even issues on which both parties 
agree. Each party sees the need for more transparency in SG and has strong plans for increasing that transparency.
And each party advocates a much-needed switch away 
from the outdated Webmail service to a user-friendly Gmail system.
The Unite Party has a strong ticket with candidates who 
have the power to get things done. But occasionally the people in charge become so accustomed to their positions of influence that they forget the reason they were elected in the first place.
Right now, we need the Students Party to take the reigns 
and get things back in order. The Students Party and its can-didates this semester bring the proposition of an SG with a new face and a new attitude.
While the platforms of both parties include many policy 
goals that will bring constructive changes to UF as a whole, only the Students Party realizes that SG must ensure that it works internally before it can do any work for the students of UF.
The Students Party emphasizes an end to the image of 
nepotism, corruption and favoritism surrounding SG and a transition to the accountability, transparency and fiscal re-sponsibility that is desperately needed for any governing body.
The Students Party ticket has indicated a strong dedi-
cation to the following ideas: (1) ensuring that people put in positions of power are chosen for their merit, (2) cutting back on redundancy and waste and (3) guaranteeing that the students have a voice in the affairs of the university, one of the most important functions of any student government.
We not only endorse the Students Party executive ticket 
but also endorse the idea of a stronger minority in the Sen-ate. No student government should ever be ruled by a single party.
We also encourage you to look at the Student Senate can-
didates running to represent you and consider that SG can only benefit from having strong voices on both sides. This not only ensures a great deal of checks and balances but also presents the opportunity for more collaboration on projects that both parties see as important.
The Students Party may have ideas that seem small com-
pared to the lofty goals of the Unite Party, but focusing on small, doable projects can add up to a lot of positive changes in the end.
SG does matter at UF, and it has the potential to do a 
lot of things for the good of the university. Let’s make sure SG knows it’s the students who hold the power to change things and vote for the Students Party. Gatorship offers ‘life-changing’ experience
I used to hear the word “diversity” and roll my eyes. Sure, 
I considered myself an extremely accepting person of all types of people, but I’d always felt diversity was a ploy 
that undermined our meritocratic society. I was wrong. At-tending last weekend’s Gatorship — a leadership and diver -
sity retreat sponsored by UF’s Multicultural and Diversity Affairs office — not only changed my mind but also my life.
I attended a private high school with a graduating class 
of 90 students. For the most part, everyone was white, up-per-class and pretty full of themselves. The strategic way in which my school prominently placed “diverse” students on its website constituted my only exposure to diversity.
Coming to UF, I felt that in recognizing this fault in my 
education I had defeated it. Yes, surely I embraced all types of people, I thought. So when I was applying for Gatorship and my friends were telling me it was a “life-changing expe-rience,” I couldn’t help but be skeptical. What could I pos-sibly have to learn? I wasn’t biased, right?
Well, last weekend defied every expectation. I have come 
back from Gatorship a changed person: Both my cynical view on the world and my skeptical view on diversity have been transformed forever. I find myself obsessed with shar -
ing everything I’ve learned with everyone I encounter.
I can’t give away too much, but Gatorship is an intense 
and thought-provoking weekend retreat where 60 UF stu-dents participate in team-building activities, provocative workshops and extremely honest group discussions.
These discussions didn’t so much ingrain us with definite 
answers as they challenged every assumption society has made about people. Assumptions such as it’s OK to use the phrase “that’s retarded” or “that’s gay.” In actuality, both of these terms are extremely offensive. By exchanging “gay” or “retarded” with the word “stupid,” we make it OK to de-mean these groups. 
Our language matters, and you never know who’s listen-
ing.
It also challenged assumptions, such as the notion that those who speak another language or carry a thick accent are to be dismissed. Some of the most artic-ulate and moving people I met at Gatorship were those who spoke with the thickest accents. Just be-cause someone does not speak the language of the majority does not mean they are any less of a person or deserve any less respect.
I learned that my parents’ socioeconomic status, and thus 
my privilege, is not something anyone can merely earn if they work hard enough. In fact, we have no understand-ing of the battles families wage every day , and we cannot tell someone how they should have lived their life or what wrong decisions they made. There are, in fact, enormous bureaucratic and circumstantial barriers in the way of the “American dream.”
We also battled assumptions such as being handicapped 
makes you weak or less valuable. In fact, hearing both first-hand perspectives and secondhand experiences about peo-ple with handicaps moved me to tears. It made me appreci-ate all the things I take for granted: walking, speaking, even being able to type these words. Some of the strongest and most resilient people in the world are handicapped in some way and deserve all the more respect for fighting battles most of us cannot even imagine.
Taking the time to listen and having the courage to share 
my own experiences profoundly moved me. Never before have I been able to apply the life struggles of someone else to my own. Never before have I been able to connect with people’s everyday hardships. Never before have I been so poignantly aware of the human condition.
And so, I guess if you had to boil it all down, Plato had 
it right: “Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle.”
Garrett Bruno is a political science sophomore at UF . His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Garrett Bruno
opinions@alligator.org THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Students Party is serious about 
cutting costs
Our Student Body President, An-
thony Reynolds, recently wrote to the 
Alligator that he “cannot, in good con-science, spend student fee money on expenses that do not go to serving UF students.”
While I, and the Students Party , 
vehemently disagree with President Reynolds’s decision to hand over the student voice on the Board of Gov-ernors to Rick Scott, I must applaud Reynolds for finally taking a stand against Student Government waste.
I assume in the next few days the 
Unite Party will announce it is no lon-ger in favor of the $3,000 meal plans for senior SG officials, the cellphone reimbursements for those same offi-cials and their VIP “official business” parking decals. After all, none of those perks go to serving UF students.While they are at it, perhaps they can get rid of the waste in the rest of SG. If our federal government can do with 15 cabinet positions, surely a student government does not need 32 direc-tors for 23 cabinet positions.
As it stands, many SG cabinets and 
agencies put on events where no more than a handful of students attend, with trays and trays of food leftover for the SG officials to take home, all on students’ dime. Not only is this a huge waste of money , it prevents students from benefiting from meaningful pro-gramming that other organizations actually do.
To ensure that student money is 
not being wasted, the Students Party will require each cabinet director to pair up with a student organization to increase turnout and cut costs for events. We will also re-organize exec-utive agencies such as IMAGE, which currently does nothing, to act as a ben-eficial arm for change to better the stu-dent experience at UF.
Carly Wilson
Students Party senator
§ § §
Student Body president has 
flawed reasoning
Reading Student Body President 
Anthony Reynold’s most recent expla-
nation for why the student representa-tive to the Board of Governors should be appointed by the governor and not elected by students was confusing at best and enraging at worst.
Reynolds cited his motivation as 
concern for spending student money on a lavish, exclusive club for Student Body presidents, but clearly that wast-ing-student-money thing was change-able as the fee situation changed last week. Why, then, did he not fight to remove the wasteful spending and reduce the fees from the Florida Stu-dent Association in the first place if that was his concern with the current system?
Removing the vote from the pro-
cess is undermining democratic prin-ciples, plain and simple, and the fact that Reynolds is OK with undermin-ing democratic principles when a sim-pler solution was present and clearly feasible should make us all very , very worried.
Sigrun Ahlquist
UF seniorLetters to the Editor
When attempting to describe individuals on opposite ends of the political spec-trum, we often use stereotypes. Conser -
vatives are considered members of the prevailing institutionalized culture, and progressives are seen as the brave and intrepid members of the counterculture.
These stereotypes developed in part out of the 
1960s, when the far-left in America (the “hippies,” to use a popular moniker) rebelled against an all-encompassing traditional society. Progressives of the 1960s were seen as part of the counterculture because, at the time, social values were largely imparted by parents.
When these radical youths rebelled against 
their conservative families, they were rejecting the prevailing institutions. When the denizens of this movement extolled the virtues of pacifism, free love and the overturning of cultural norms, they were indeed countercultural, for when they were presented with the prevailing culture, they said no.
However, the problem is we still use these 
stereotypes today . We assume that the prevailing culture is conservative and the counterculture is progressive because we are still stuck in the same political paradigm born out of the hippie genera-tion. The prevailing culture, in fact, is no longer conservative in the least.
This stems from the fact that the primary edu-
cators of young people are no longer their parents; instead, the primary educator is the media.
Hollywood is now the prevailing institution 
rather than the family unit. And unlike the tradi-tional family unit, Hollywood has never labored under any accusations of conservatism.
As a conservative, when I watch TV , I am iron-
ically forced to do the same thing as the progres-sives of the 1960s — I have to say no.
Whether it’s watching Rachel and Ross jump-
ing into bed together before marriage or Gob Bluth erecting a “Mis-sion Accomplished” banner in a mockery of the Iraq War, conserva-tives are forced to swal-low their pride if they wish to engage in the popular culture.
Conservatives are 
now the members of 
the counterculture, not progressives. This is not a natural balance and leads many conservatives to embrace a form of radicalism that is not flattering. When the mainstream media became largely pro-gressive, clever individuals such as Rupert Mur -
doch and Rush Limbaugh saw a vacuum from which to prosper.
Distasteful individuals such as Bill O’Reilly 
and Limbaugh now dominate mainstream con-servative culture — men who bear little resem-blance to previous luminaries such as Edmund Burke and Russell Kirk.
Conservatives have become so incensed at 
their current cultural standing that they are will-ing to listen to such radicals in order to obtain a cathartic release of their woes. This status quo must change in order for conservatives to regain cultural and intellectual relevancy.
Conservatives should reflect on how to be true 
to their ancestral and cultural lineage. It is time for conservatives to end the current age of insecurity and phobia and lead by example — to be compas-sionate, thoughtful and morally honest. 
William F. Buckley Jr. often said to be a conser -
vative meant “to stand in front of the locomotive of history and yell, ‘Stop!’” Conservatives should once again embrace that role rather than follow spiteful radicals who only want to blow up the tracks.
Luke Bailey is a history junior at UF. His column 
regularly appears on Wednesdays. Conservatives should forgo radical 
behavior to stay culturally relevantColumn
Luke Bailey
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
Netflix is streaming an original series: 
“Lilyhammer” has the same level of production value 
as shows on cable channels but is only available from Netflix. Read about on page 12.How-to eat fresh and organic on the cheap: 
There’s a way to buy healthy groceries without making your bank account too sad. Learn how on page 9.ALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
Pop-rock ensemble The Fray shows just as much heart as 
it does vulnerability on “Scars and Stories,” the band’s third 
album after a three-year-long recording hiatus, guided by notable producer Brendan O’Brien (Red Hot Chili Peppers, Pearl Jam).
Drawing on its previous commercial success (tracks such 
as “Over My Head (Cable Car)” and “How To Save A Life” set them on the fast track to pop-rock prominence), the group’s latest effort is taking a performance-heavy market-ing approach. 
The band will be featured on the critically acclaimed 
Public Broadcasting Service program “Live From The Art-ists’ Den,” following in the footsteps of Adele, Bon Iver and Death Cab for Cutie. 
In addition, the group teamed up with Wal-Mart Stores 
Inc. for its popular “Soundcheck” series, giving fans the chance to hear the group in a stripped-style performance and to check out behind-the-scenes footage of the Denver-based band.
Similar to previous records, the album is a mix of fast-
paced singles (like the leading track “Heartbeat”) and slow, melancholy tunes (like the piano ballad “Be Still”). 
Many of the band’s contemporaries, ranging from Au-
gustana to Relient K, have made an effort to use this popu-lar formula of “pop plus piano” to create the perfect adult alternative sound, but The Fray has arguably taken control of the genre. 
With its consistent radio-friendly singles (“Heartbeat” continues to climb the Billboard Hot 100 chart), the group has made a lasting impression on the ears of music lovers.
The mesh of fast and slow songs are evenly distributed 
among the 12-track record. Following the lead single is “The Fighter,” its light guitar sound and gang vocals prominent behind singer Isaac Slade’s smooth vocals, masking the melancholy lyrics. 
Lamenting “loneliness has always been with me . . ./
Maybe we were meant to be on our own,” Slade has per -
fected the acute cry brand of vocalization, his gravelly tenor easily accenting the pain of the lyrics. 
Yet, just as the band has demonstrated in the past, the 
underlying inspirational tone of the music transforms the dejected feeling to one that is motivational, no matter the lyrical content. 
While “The Fighter” has instances of hurt laced in the 
lyrics, the underlying message of the music, through both the lyrics and the melody, shows off the band’s ultimately positive outlook. 
This song in particular, as Slade described to Denver 
Westwood Blogs, centers on “wrestling with doubt” and “fac[ing] your doubts, especially in a relationship.”
Transitions from down-and-out mindsets to uplifted 
spirits take precedence in songs such as “48 to Go,” a song about a romantic road trip. 
The song “tak[es] it slow” and passes its relaxed mood 
to the audience, thanks in large part to lead guitarist Dave Welsh and rhythm guitarist Joe King’s smooth, calming riffs and quiet backing vocals.
This encouraging sentiment is also prominent on tracks 
such as “Run For Your Life,” the recently announced sopho-more single. “You don’t have to go it alone,” Slade croons, encouraging both the song’s subject and listeners alike to “not give up.” 
Songs like “Life” are also outlets showing their interest 
in the world around them (in 2010, Slade traveled to Africa, visiting with Rwanda’s president, Paul Kagame, among other stops). 
This creative spin on the band’s global awareness is not 
only a way to see the world, but to inspire the members in their songwriting. (Slade ended up writing “Heartbeat” after his visit to Rwanda).
No adult contemporary album would be complete with-
out the stereotypically romantic “seize the moment” bal-lad. 
However, The Fray take that concept and make it too 
catchy and calming to pass up, with “Rainy Zurich” becom-ing a nice exhibition of Slade’s upper register. 
Heartfelt similes and thoughtful “what ifs” (“Maybe I’ll 
find you, maybe I won’t/Maybe I’ll try to even if I don’t . . .”) punctuate the tune. 
The slightly cliched lyrics are overshadowed by what 
is arguably Slade’s best vocal performance on the record, drawing comparisons to the flowing style of Coldplay’s Chris Martin.
The band is producing a slew of new live show adver -
tisements, along with a nation-wide tour (which will be stopping at the Hard Rock Live Orlando on May 3). 
The Fray’s listener-friendly material continues to grow 
more heartfelt with time, indulging fans with its tried-but-true, easy going musical style once again.
You’ve probably heard vincent 
Martella before without even knowing it. Read where on page 10.
           Photo courtesy of Sony Music
“Scars & Stories,” the third album from The Fray, brings many levels of lyrics that blend with poppy piano beats.The Fray show its “scars and stories” on new album
Third album mixes lyrics with deep beats 
“Maybe I’ll find you, maybe I won’t/Maybe I’ll 
try to even if I don’t . . .”
The Fray
from “Rainy Zurich” THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
MICHAEL NEWMAN
Avenue Writer
January has come to a close, and the new 
semester seems to be just beginning. After 
all of the post-holiday reunions and celebra-tions, a lot of us are beginning to realize how quickly the rent catches up and wonder whether we should see if the landlord will give us a discount for the month of February since it’s the shortest month anyway.
People have their own methods of sav-
ing, from using the car less to going out less to simply eating less. But before you invest your last few dollars in Krishna cards and Tupperware – or start shopping around to see which school clubs consistently offer the best pizza – take a look at some ways I’ve found to live fairly comfortably, spending around $10 to $20 a week on food. 
(Note: I’m leaving politics and nutrition 
out of this. Feel free to modify this advice as you see fit, and definitely take vitamins no matter what your diet is like.)
The first step is to make a grocery list. 
This seems like a no-brainer, but making a list and sticking to it can be a lot harder than it seems. 
Think about what you might want to eat, 
what you normally eat and what you can actually eat within your budget. If there’s anything that you normally buy pre-made, cross it off and buy the ingredients to make it. You might spend a little more in the be-ginning, but you can always use the extra in-gredients for something else later. Meat will weigh down your food budget considerably as well, so either forgo it or buy a minimal amount depending on your tastes and how much you can swing for it.
Fresh organic produce, sadly, is still 
quite expensive, so stick to a few things you know you won’t throw out and can be used a variety of ways. 
I usually go for banan-
as, onions, garlic, potatoes and cabbage. And, while you’re in the produce sec-tion, look to see what’s on sale, and 
try not to get suck-
ered into 
Purchasing healthy and fresh food isn’t as scary as it seemsKAY BEA
Avenue Columnist
I know what you’re all expect-
ing. You’re expecting a full-force rant founded on one or more of 
the following positions: “What a BS Hallmark holiday,” “Yeah, it’s awe-some if you’re in love, but I’m not, so thanks for reminding me of my solitude, jerk,” “Boohoo, NOBODY LOVES ME,” “Aw, look at the girl with the bouquet of roses. I’m so HAPPY for her. Not,” “That couple staring dreamily into each others’ eyes make me want to gouge my own out.” You get the idea.
So, this week marked the pass-
ing of the holiday lovingly referred to as Valentine’s Day . For a time that’s supposed to remind people to stop and feel the good vibrations all around, I can’t help but notice an ever-increasing backlash against Cupid and his chocolate-dipped arrows. In fact, I’m just going to come right out and say that many of you are downright bitter toward this day of “lurve.” I won’t pretend that I don’t understand the reasons for these opposite reactions, for it takes neither a genius nor a shrink to figure out the core sentiment from where these feelings stem.
Loneliness can be a total pain in 
the ass, and when a day that screams romance rolls around, you can’t help but feel a pang of “go away” run through your mind.  The hearts, flowers, boxes of candy , candlelit dinners, bottles of red wine, senti-mental cards, bunches of balloons, pink-frosted cookies. 
In a way , when you stop and 
think about this hullabaloo, the en-tire charade becomes comical.  
Yet despite this silliness, even 
a friendly bag of Hershey’s Kisses can turn the most steady tempera-ments a bit nutty .  
My single 
friends and I used to joke that Valen-
tine’s Day was the one day out of the year when the guy(s) you were kind of dating would purposely avoid all contact with you. No one in a casual relationship can handle the weight of the words “Happy Valentine’s Day” because think of all of the mixed messages that phrase sends. I kid you not, there was one year I was seeing three guys and none of them called me on Feb. 14. They all dropped me a line the following day, though. If that’s not true love, then I don’t know what is. Spoiler alert: I no longer talk to any of the previously mentioned male suitors. Shocking, I know.
What cracks me up even more 
are the vehement retaliations against Valentine’s Day. If you’re single, it seems that an obligatory statement needs to be made that declares dis-dain for this day or affirms indiffer -
ence to the circumstance. 
But are those who fall into the lonely hearts club really ready to dis-miss Valentine’s Day altogether? It’s upsetting when surface traditions overpower the real purpose for holi-days. Christmas is slapped by the culprit of materialism, Halloween with aphrodisiac dress-up and St. Patty’s Day with sweet, sweet beer. 
How many of you reading this 
can honestly say that there is at least one person in your life whom you truly love? 
Rather than drowning in senti-
ments of self-pity , why not get over yourself and use Valentine’s Day as a cue to tell your friends, family , postal worker or apartment manag-er that you dig them? Then raid the clearance chocolate. Russel Stover, you are my truest love.  
The Art of Flying Solo, Topic 5: Lonely Hearts Club
food
see GROCeRY, pa Ge 1110, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
Photo courtesy of Vin Man Enterprise, Inc.
Vincent Martella, a voice-actor, balances his work and social life between taking 
classes at UF.
NICOLE LA HOZ
Avenue Writer
Vincent Martella remembers stepping onto 
the Disney Lot in Buena Vista Studios for the first 
time, passing by animations from “Pinocchio” and historic drawings from the 1940s.
Turning to his dad, he said, “If I could work 
there for the rest of my life, I would be more than happy.”
Now, it’s where animation for Disney’s Day-
time Emmy-winning cartoon “Phineas and Ferb” takes place. Martella, who voices Phineas, couldn’t be more proud of that fact.
But the 19-year-old actor hasn’t stopped at one 
goal.
Last fall, Martella began his first semester of 
college with UF’s online business program after graduating from DeLand High School in 2011. He divides his time between Disney Studios and school.
“I was pretty adamant about not wanting to 
give up my education for my career,” he said. “I did the best I could to not sacrifice one for the other.”
Martella visited UF the week of Thanksgiving 
to attend live lectures, meet professors and catch up with friends.
He’s currently in California working on the 
fourth season of “Phineas and Ferb.” It follows the adventurous, inventive lives of stepbrothers Phineas Flynn and Ferb Fletcher during summer vacation. A feature film comes out the summer of 2013.
“It’s kind of going to be the coolest thing ever,” 
Martella said. “Not a big deal, but it’s going to be amazing.”
The more Disney 365 (a news segment on the 
Disney Channel) promotions Martella did, the more students during his junior and senior year of high school asked him to demonstrate the soft, nasally Phineas voice. 
Martella called promoting “Phineas and Ferb: 
The Second Dimension,” the show’s TV movie, last summer mind boggling.“Things like that -- I took a step back,” he said. 
“It really blew my mind that it’s a phenomenon right now.”
Not all of his time goes toward acting.“A lot of normal teenage shenanigans,” he said, 
like going to an L.A. Kings game at Staples Center for the first time.
When he was younger, fun derived from imi-
tating celebrities and creating voices; his “shtick,” Martella said.
During his “Phineas” audition six years ago, 
creators handed him character art, a brief descrip-tion sans age and two paragraphs detailing a plan to build a roller coaster. Martella’s imagination led him to a bright, innocent voice he said could “make you smile.”
Acting was never something pushed on the 
Rochester-born actor. After his impressions rou-tine one day, Martella said someone joked that he should be an actor. He agreed.
After asking his parents for acting classes, “ev-
erything fell into place.”
Martella booked work on TV 
in California with a guest spot in “Cracking Up” and a recur -
ring role in “Ned’s Declassified School Survival Guide.”
He spent eight to nine 
months out of the year there to 
film “Everybody Hates Chris,” a syndicated com-edy “documenting” the life of comedian Chris Rock during the ’80s in Brooklyn. Martella played Chris’ nerdy, headstrong best friend.
Spots in movies include “Role Models,” where 
Martella exhibited improv skills opposite Paul Rudd, and “Baitshop” with Bill Engvall and Billy Ray Cyrus.
He also contributed to the RPG series “Final 
Fantasy XIII” as the voice of Hope Estheim in 2009.
“You take something, as an actor, from every 
job you get whether it’s comedy or drama or ani-mation,” Martella said.
“No matter where my career’s going to go, as 
long as I’m having fun, I’m going to love it.”Voice-actor takes UF classes when he’s not busy working
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 11
RYAN GALLOWAY
Avenue Writer
Let’s talk about sex.
I am a virgin.  I am a 25-year-old, 
well-adjusted black male in relatively 
decent shape, and I’ve never once had sex.  
You know what?  It doesn’t bother me one bit.  I don’t consider myself any better or worse than anyone else because of it.  I have a girl-friend, and we’ve never done “the deed.”  I’ll admit that I want to sometimes, but I’m going to wait until my wife and I can have that really awesome, fantastic sex that people pretend to write songs about.  Heck, even the Bible talks about good sex, and I want it one day .  Still, my sexual abstinence has granted me the dis-tance and perspective to see the currents in the world around me without being swept along in the great ﬂ  ood of sensuality. This is no ex-pert opinion, but it is an honest one.
I ﬁ  nd a somewhat alarming trend in our 
culture toward over-gratiﬁ  cation of our ev-ery sexual whim and fancy , and I don’t think we’re the better for it.  Look at our marriages, or better yet, our divorce rate.  Check out the increasingly early ages at which children are being exposed to explicit pornography.  How many people grew up with fathers that spent all their time in the garage, doing “work” on the computer?  Is this really what we’ve want-ed all along?  Am I forced to chase every piece of tail like a dog in heat just because I’ve got a penis?  How about all you women?  Do you have to tell Victoria’s secret every time you wear a blouse just because it can be told?
I would submit that the answer is no.  
Why?  Because I am more than my sex organs.  Coincidentally, so are you.
My identity is not found in my sexual ex-
ploits.  I think it’s sad that so much of who we are and what we do is motivated and driven by sexual urges.  Who said I have to experi-ment in order to ﬁ  gure out how to do things?  I found some STD stats that would suggest that I don’t.   Hey , freshmen guy that has never been with a girl?  It’s not a big deal.  Hey , girl with the slimy boyfriend?  Dump the loser and ﬁ  nd someone who appreciates you beyond your lady lumps.
Women, you are way more valuable than 
your mammary glands.  Be hard to get, in the nonmanipulative sense.  A man should have to go on a hunt for that precious heart of yours in order to win the prize.  Men, you have way more to offer society than the size of your package.  I’m willing to bet that she’s not wait-ing to measure the width of your bicep, but the strength of your character and the depth of your compassion. Let’s grow up and be men.
Why do I care so much?  Our increasing 
sexualization affects our culture in more ways than just putting pleasure at our ﬁ  nger tips at all times of the day.  Women and men are subjecting each other to fantastical, unrealistic and debilitating expectations of body images.  Men who would otherwise ﬁ  nd themselves “on the market” are now staying on the farm, having all of their sexual needs gratiﬁ  ed with the dizzying amount of porn that constitutes the World Wide Web.  Sex trafﬁ  cking has be-come one of the most disgustingly lucrative markets on the planet because of our fast-food approach to sex.
Am I old-fashioned?  Probably.  Uncool?  
Sure.  Repressed?  Maybe.  Mock me all you want, but I wonder what a terribly disﬁ  gured culture we would be if we indulged our nu-tritional appetites as we did our sexual ones.  Obesity, which plagues two-thirds of our na-tion, would be the least of our problems.  I’m not saying sex is bad.  What I’m saying is that raging hormones don’t make us who we are.
What if sex, as great as it is, wasn’t meant 
to be cheapened by giving the goods to every Joe that says he’s got a jar for them?  As ﬁ  ery and hot as it is, unmitigated sexual appetites are much like a burning log in a living room.  Eventually, the whole house is going to go up in ﬂ  ames.  But what if the embers could be put back in the ﬁ  replace?  Sound too good to be true?  I’m not so sure.  I’ve run across a revolu-tionary idea or two in my day.
I am a 25-year-old virgin, and strangely 
enough, I’m not trying to get laid anytime soon.  Because I am more than my sex organs.
The 25-year-old Virgin Speaks Out about Sex and Love
sex 
You can buy the ingredients to make your own condiments
buying overpriced and less fresh 
pre-cut vegetables.
While you’re in the grocery 
store, make sure to take a stop at the bulk bins. They’re the big plas-tic containers that let you buy nuts, grains, beans, and other goods by the pound. They can be spotted in just about any health food store, Ward’s and one or two of the Pub-lix stores in the Gainesville area. There are a million different ways to combine what’s available. It’s also easy to try new things because you can get as little as a few cents worth of something you’re not quite sure about.
If you enjoy soy or almond 
milk, you can make it yourself with dried almonds or soybeans from the bulk bins and water and sugar to taste. There are a million different recipes online, varying in labor intensity from about 15 min-utes to hours. If you enjoy sprouts on your sandwich or want a nice, Asian-style dinner, the same holds true for just about any whole grain or bean. A more detailed explana-tion can be found online, but you should soak them overnight, rinse them at least twice a day after that and let them drain during the rest of the time. In a couple of days you’ll see what started as a few measly tablespoons of beans take over your container, to the point where underestimating your har-vest can easily turn a blessing into a curse.
I’ve found 
mung beans to be the tastiest and most successful when you don’t have anything left in the pantry oth-er than white rice 
and packets of soy sauce. Chick-peas are tasty when they work, but very ﬁ  nicky if you don’t have the time to rinse them thoroughly. Sun-ﬂ  ower seeds make delicious leafy greens that are perfect in a sand-wich. Keep experimenting with these; everything comes out a little bit different. While you’re getting the rest of your staple foods, see if you can also buy spices in bulk — you’ll quickly ﬁ  nd that those little $3 jars of spices are actually 50 cents of spice and $2.50 of jar.
Your last stop — if you can 
make it — is Big Lots or another closeout store. It may seem cheap and trashy, but the trashiness is what you make of it. Look at their selection of international foods and buy any kind of sauces that look appealing. Do the same in the condiments aisle and then ﬁ  nd some olive oil. If you can keep your blinders on near brightly colored snacks and candy you haven’t seen since ﬁ  fth grade, you’ll get away with what would normally be the priciest items in your pantry for about $5 total.
In Gainesville, we’re lucky to 
have access to a lot of the places and services that let us eat healthy foods without breaking the bank. Even if you don’t need to cut many corners, make sure to appreciate the bounty this town has to offer and remember that many of our peers across the state are stuck in a fast-food desert.
GROCERY , from page 9NATALIA SIEUKARAN
Avenue Writer
Premiering right after the Super 
Bowl, the second season of NBC’s 
“The Voice” showcased the talent and fun it had to offer, which re-minded viewers why it’s a show worthy to compete against the likes of “American Idol” and “X Factor.”
“The Voice” first premiered last 
summer and was thought to be an underdog singing-show competi-tion unlikely to compete against the already established singing shows backed by the snarky Simon Cow-ell.
Inspired by the “The V oice of 
Holland,” executive producer Mark Burnett worked with the original creator, John de Mol, to create what would become the antithesis to “Idol.”
The show judges competitors 
solely on their voices, a phenom-enon in vocal competitions since most thrive on finding the “the whole package.” In addition to the different concept, instead of “judg-es” criticizing the acts, there are coaches, who happen to be heavy-hitters in the music industry , to guide and inspire the contestants.
The coaches, dubbed “four of 
the biggest stars on the planet,” are as follows: Maroon 5’s frontman Adam “Moves Like Jagger” Levine, sultry “Dirrty”-girl Christina Agu-ilera, singer/songwriter/producer Cee Lo Green and country star Blake Shelton. The don’t have much in common, but it sure works.
The chemistry, jokes and sexual 
tension (at least between Levine and Augilera) all induced by the four -
some of anti-Idol advocates are sur -
prisingly entertaining. So     enter -
taining that the show was this year’s Super Bowl lead-out program.
But how has the second season 
fared against “Idol”?
According to The Huffington Post, on Feb. 8 “Idol” brought in 7.7 million views for the 18-49 age range, while on Feb. 6 “The V oice” brought in 8.5 million in the same range — that’s almost a million more people who tuned in to watch Levine and Aguilera bicker.
In addition to the coaches, the 
competition works in three stages: blind auditions, battle stage and live shows.
Along with the foolproof formu-
la, the prize is pretty nice too. First-season winner Javier Colon, who had viewers at the beginning with his rendition of Cyndi Lauper’s “Time After Time,” won $100,000 and a record deal from Universal Republic.
The show is in the first stage be-
yond the blind audition, which is the most interesting phase as the four coaches have their backs turned to the contestants singing their hearts out in hopes of landing a spot on one of the coaches’ teams of 12.
If the coaches like what they 
hear, they simply press the button and the singer has a spot on the team. If more than one coach push-es, the tables turn and the power is with the contestant, as now he or she can pick a team. This also hap-pens to be a competition between the coaches because they want to create a team of diverse singers to compete against each other for the live shows.
The new season is just as enter -
taining as the first, and it continues to be full of humor as the coaches badger one another and fight over the singers they want. Each endear -
ing trait rolled over from last season is now a trademark: Levine’s car-salesman-type persuading, Aguil-era almost pressing the button but then not, Green flirting and reeling in the pretty ladies and Blake’s com-ments that would be creepy if said by anyone else.
The first performer shown was 
country singer RaeLynn, who took a risk singing a Miranda Lambert (Shelton’s wife) song, but her rough, raspy voice had Adam and Blake wanting her very badly and going to great lengths to persuade her they could make her into a star.
Levine and Aguilera bickered 
over tattooed, high-heeled rocker-chick Juliet Simms, who crooned The Beatles’ “Oh! Darling,” while Green just chilled out and coyly said, “You turn me on.” That seemed to be the tiebreaker since she ultimately chose him. Doesn’t anyone remem-ber that the season one winner was on Levine’s team? Just saying.
Jermaine Paul, a back-up singer 
for Alicia Keys who happened to send a good-luck video to him (you wonder why she didn’t help the guy), did an R&B take on Avril Lav-igne’s “Complicated” and quickly got the attentions of Shelton and Green. He went with Shelton.
Of course, there are the ones 
who don’t get picked but who did have what it takes to turn those chairs around, such as the 20-year-old in the bowtie whose pitch threw off the coaches and the rocker dad who’s motivated every day by his wife and baby son.
What would the show be with-
out the performances of the “biggest stars on the planet?” In the midst of all the auditions, the judges paid a tribute to Prince — with Aguilera dominating the vocals.
In only two episodes, “The Voice” 
had a lot going on that kept viewers on the edge and never bored. It’s easy to understand why it beat out the monotonous same-old we’ve been getting from “Idol” for years.
With a coaches from a wide vari-
ety of genres, it seems that the sing-ers never have to compromise their style. Pop, rock, indie, R&B — it’s all appreciated. This is the biggest difference from other singing com-petitions: The artists can simply be themselves. 
And that genuine quality is what 
seems to have viewers more inter -
ested in it than in “Idol.”
“The Voice” is on NBC on Mon-
days at 8 p.m.12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
Photo courtesy of NBC Universal
It’s just as fun to watch the judges of “The Voice” playfully interact during the show as it is on Twitter.
Season 2 of “The Voice” beats out rival “American Idol”
JOE OUNG
Avenue Writer
Despite all of the negative attention Netflix has gotten 
from the media over the past six months, such as the failed 
attempt to split the company into two services, the price changes and the loss of its contract with Starz Play, the company has managed to conjure up something that can separate it from its competition: streaming original con-tent. It’s about time that Netflix pleased its audience and announced good news.  
On Feb. 6, the video-streaming giant launched its first 
original series, “Lilyhammer.” Such a move is a break-through in the entertainment business because it shows that streaming services such as Netflix can strike deals with other entertainment corporations (in this case Norwegian Broadcasting Company [NRK]) and give viewers some-thing that no one on this side of the Atlantic Ocean can.
“Lilyhammer” was produced collaboratively by Netflix 
and NRK and originally aired in Norway on Jan. 25. The show set a Norwegian record of 1.2 million viewers watch-ing new episodes as they aired for the past few weeks. The series was scheduled to launch on Jan. 1, but was delayed due to Norwegian allegations of illegal product place-ment.
The eight-episode series set in Lillehammer, Norway, 
stars Steven Van Zandt, who is known for his role as Silvio Dante on the hit TV series “The Sopranos.” “Lilyhammer” is about Van Zandt’s character, a former mobster named Frank “The Fixer” Tagliano, who is relocated through a witness protection program to Lillehammer after testifying against a New York mob boss. Tagliano chose Lilleham-mer because he was intrigued by the city after he saw it on TV in the 1994 Winter Olympics. While Tagliano (now Giovanni “Johnny” Hendriksen) understands Norwegian, he is still a misfit in Norway. Tagliano/Hendriksen will be a familiar character to American audiences as they empa-thize and acclimate to the new land and language along with the series’ main character.
In the past, TV companies have aired new episodes on a 
daily, weekly or even monthly basis to keep viewers coming back for more; however, Netflix released all eight episodes on the series’ launch date. Ted Sarandos, chief content of-ficer of Netflix, said the company was giving its members what they wanted: choice and control. The ability to go on a binge of their favorite TV series is one of the many rea-sons Netflix viewers use the service, and “Lilyhammer” was going to follow that model despite being a new series. The production quality of “Lilyhammer” is something one would expect from a premium pay-per-view TV service, but Netflix does not charge extra to watch this new series.
Bold moves like these are attempts by Netflix to separate 
itself from the rest of its competition in the video-streaming industry. The same day “Lilyhammer” was released, Veri-zon announced a deal with Coinstar (the parent company of Redbox) to provide a video-streaming service in direct competition with Netflix later this year. Also, Amazon.com has struck a licensing agreement with media giant Viacom to offer 15,000 videos to Amazon Prime customers through its video-streaming service over the next few months.
In addition to “Lilyhammer,” Netflix already has plans 
to air two other original series. A new series called “House of Cards” is a political thriller starring Kevin Spacey and directed by David Fincher (director of “Fight Club”) that is based on a 1990 BBC miniseries of the same name and will air in late 2012. A brand new season of “Arrested Develop-ment,” a series that was canceled by Fox six years ago, will air in 2013.
“Lilyhammer” can be viewed on Netflix’s stream-
ing subscriptions that start at $7.99/month for unlimited streaming. New members will receive a free one-month trial at https://signup.netflix.com
Netflix to start streaming original series “Lilyhammer”television“The Voice” offers a new dynamicTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
Need 4 students for 4 bedroom, 4 bath, fully 
furnished Condo $350 per month per student, includes utilities at Univ Terrace West 3800 SW 20th Ave 352-586-6468. Requires 1 year lease starting Aug 15th.   2-23-12-12-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Only $1149! Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-28-12-36-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2bed/1bath Sun Key units starting at $550
2bed/1.5bath Sun Harbor Townhouse
starting at $575
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2BR/1BA close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    2-29-12-35-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-17-12-24-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   2-29-12-25-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   2-29-11-27-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE
Prestigious Bivens Arm. 5BR house, Pool, & Dock. Bike or walk to Shands & UF. Serious grad students preferred. $2500/mo. Call 619-857-9903    2-22-12-20-21BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #3. Please call 352-371-3473 leave message.       2-22-12-20-2
Trend’s Student House of the Month!
2710 NW 2nd Ave
Huge 2/2 with a Den and Fireplace!
Walking Distance to Law School
Biking Distance to UF
Text “Trend” to 313131 for More Details
Trend4Rent.com
2-24-20-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor Townhouses $525
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
1bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $475!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
2-23-12-15-2
4/2 apartment 1740 NW 3rd PL Now lea-
seing for Fall- Early signing discount $275/room if you have 4 people and sign by 2/29 No Pets 1 year leases 352-231-3002www.hodgeprop.com    2-17-12-11-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available Feb 1st.REDUCED to $900/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183   2-29-12-15-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
ONE Block to UF-Available 8/1/2012-2/2.5 
bath townhouse,w,d,dishwsh, guaranteed parking, wood floors VERY cute-1017 SW 1st Avenue www.forrentgainesville.com or 514-4915. Only 3 units remain!!!    3-14-12-20-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
2BR2BA  Condo  in Turkey Creek
Carpet, Dishwasher, Laundry Hkups,Close to Alachua & Gainesville 11426 NW 67th Terrace  $800/Mo  
2BR 1BA Garage Apt in Duckpond Area
Wood Floors, Laundry, Central H & Air726 NE 4th Street $800 /Mo
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF, 
Carpet, Central H & Air, CarpetLaundry., Inclds Wtr and Swg. $800/MoCan reserve for Summer or Fall now.Grad II 1236 SW 4th Avenue
2BR 1BA Apt Robert Obrien Apts
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat Gas HtNear Sams Club/Walmart  $500/Mo2901 NW 14th Street
2BR 1BA House in Oaks of Kanapaha
4845 SW 57th Drive $725/MoCarpet, Central H & Air, Laundry hkupsOff Archer Rd. 
Effeciency across from UF Stadium
2 Rooms, no kitchen, just Frig and sinkshared bathroom.  Most people bring in a hotplate or microwave $295/Mo 2-17-12-4-2
A Short Walk to Shands and UF Campus!
1/1 for rent in a 4/4. Available Aug 1.Oxford Terrace Condo. $500/mo. Free cable!Furnished living room and kitchen. Upperclassman or grad.student preferred. 904-955-0678 lv msg / avfetner@ufl.edu    2-16-5-2
***5 Bedroom House***
Walk to class! Wood Floors. Lots of Parking. 
Lease begins August 10th. Please contact 
John @ 561-866-8234 for more info.
2-17-5-2SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 2-20-11-35-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 rooms available in 4br/2ba for $300/month 
+ 1/4 utilities. close to campus and available march 1. all cable channels and internet at house. male or female. call matt at 352-256-3492    2-17-7-4
SWM looking for roommate to share 2 story 
condo. Unfurnished 250 sft bedroom/prvt bath with access to furnished kitchen/living room.Located on Tower Rd 4 blocks S of Newberry RdEmsil: eleeng075@netscape.net   2-28-12-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
●●ESTATE SALE●● 
6pc BR, 10pc dr, 6pc off, 5pc dinette, couch, 
8pc wicker, silver/china/art, decor items, can deliver. 4203 NW 69th St., 2/16-2/20. 7a-7p.    2-20-11-5-6
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
We Buy Cell Phones & other Electronics 
(iPads,iPods,Gaming Systems,Laptops.)Working or Not ! We Unlock & Repair PhonesTechmodo 6450 SW Archer RD(352)872-5881                 2-29-18-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Designated drivers are the greatest
 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I Buy Cars & Trucks
★ Call Anytime ★ 352-443-1100
3-13-12-20-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-1294 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
97 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $699902 TOYOTA CAMRY $699904 CHEVY ASTRO $6999352-375-9090    4-25-65-1204 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $799902 HONDA ODYSSEY $799901 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,99906 SATURN ION $11,99907 FORD MUSTANG $12,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
We buy unwanted vehicles with or without 
title any condition,make,year or model we pay up to $20,000 and offer free towing call 813-516-0847    2-28-20-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  2-16-12-8-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
●●● FEMALE SMOKERS! ●●●
Do you want to quit smoking? Female
smokers needed to participate in a smokingcessation study. You may be compensated.Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com2-20-20-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Bench Scientist Position. Research with 
ELISAs and antibody production. Familiarity with ELISAs and immunology desired. Should have a Bachelor's degree in science field. Please send resume to info@elisa-tek.com   2-20-12-14-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa- tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or smoke-clinic@gmail.com for further details   2-17-12-10-14Planting, Mulching & Mowing
Student needed for yard work & gardening. 
$12/hr, up to 25 hrs/wk. Email resume to: jaythaw@bellsouth.net   2-16-12-5-14
$$$ Brokers Needed $$$
If you have a burning desire to succeed, your dedicated and coachable,then we need to talk. Call me for a meeting that could position you to make a potential six figure income. Daniel 305-282-1839                2-16-5-14
GET PAID TO TYPE!!
Transcribe audio dictations. Create your own
skd M-F, 7am -midnight. $7.67-$12+, based
on speed and accuracy. Close to campus.
Ideal for PT and Students! Requires 70+
wpm, minimum of 16 hours per week, English
as first language. gnvjobs@uigfla.com
2-17-12-5-14
We have the following
full and part time positions:●Tech Support Rep●Software Developer●Linux Administrator●Admin Asst●ACT/SAT Coordinator●Video Tech●Aviation Sales●Accounting EditorPlease complete an online application at www.gleim.com/employment.     3-2-12-15-14
Seeking experienced female caregivers for 
overnights and weekends. Must have at least 1 year experience,HS diploma/GED.You must be able to pass Local Background and Level II Background Screening. Interested and meet requirements? Call 352-225-3251.   2-17-4-14
Medical Office Manager Trainee for mid-
sized Dermatology practice. Duties include performing or supervising ICD-9/CPT cod-ing, billing and collections; A/R; payroll management; employee supervision and maintenance of employee records and ben-efits; insurance evaluation and contracting; interfacing with clinical staff and physicians; preparing financial reports and interfacing with accountant. Seeking a mature, en-ergetic individual with experience but will train motivated candidate. Salary, benefits and possible incentive commensurate with experience. Perfect for recent and graduat-ing business majors. E-mail resume ofmgr-beers@AOL.com.   2-17-11-4-14
A musician is need at Allen Chapel A.M.E. 
Church,High Springs. Need not be profes-sional, but must be able to play both tradi-tional and contemporary gospel. If interested please call Gloria James (386-454-9834) or Eyvonne Andrews (386-454-3186).    2-20-5-14
Receptionist needed for professional sup-
portive office environment FT 8-5 M-F 10.00 per hour Please Email resume toCorey@mssgainesville.com    2-24-12-7-14
NANNY NEEDED RIGHT AWAY:
30hrs:M-F 2hrsam/+2:45-6:45pm; 3.5yrs;Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume,pix, &schedule to  info@noahsarknanny.com2-20-12-3-14
Sales Asst/Customer Svc Rep
Apply in person at
Tomlinson Motor Company, 3580 N Main St$10/hr, part time 15-20 hrs/wk - flexible.     2-23-12-6-14
Part time lot position at busy powersports 
store. Self motivated person able to do a variety of jobs including cleaning, set up and loading of machines. Requires some heavy and strenuous work.  Applicants must be presentable, and have a valid license. Mechanical aptitude is a must. Motorcycle en-dorsed preferred. Apply in person at Polaris of Gainesville  12556 nw US hwy 441 Alachua   2-20-12-3-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION FT
ECG DepartmentPlease apply in personInstitute of Veterinary Spec3603 NW 98th St. Suite A         2-22-5-14   RECEPTION POSITIONFTPlease apply in personInstitute of Veterinary Spec3603 NW 98th St Suite A         2-22-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    2-29-12-33-15
E-SCRAP AND MORE
HAULING AND REMOVAL
Appliances, Electronics, Scooters, Vehicles 
and Much More! Text JUNK to 352-494-8815    2-16-5-15Transcendental Meditation Technique: A free Introductory Lecture, Sunday, Feb. 26, 1pm at the Hampton Inn, Arredondo Room, 101 S.E. 1st Ave, Gainesville, FL 32601. Questions: 352-338-1249 orabyxbe@tm.org, Allan Byxbe.   2-24-12-8-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
World Traveler wanted. Seeking male/fe-
male interested in experiencing new cultures, ancient art, historic sights, & exotic cuisine - all while making lasting friendships on an amazing European adventure this summer. See a free trip to Europe in your future? Visit contiki.com/amazing.   2-16-12-1-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
CHINCHILLA+ All accessories for Sale! $175 
OBO. Sweet 3yo M chinchilla with cage and accessories. Email for pics and more info: AMH730@yahoo.com   2-20-4-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.MIT Mathematics Graduate. TUTORING available for HIGH SCHOOL and COLLEGE STUDENTS. Taught last semester at UF. E-mail/call for REFERENCES and RATES. (352) 519-8974 and avila@alum.mit.edu   2-27-12-10-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Tennis player receives honor
Florida men’s tennis player Bob van Overbeek won the 
SEC Men’s Tennis Player of the Week on Wednesday after defeating No. 2 Dennis Novolo on Sunday.Florida swimming at SEC Championships
The Gators took home four medals during the ﬁ  rst day of the Southeastern Conference Swimming and Diving Championships on Wednesday. For the full story, visit alligatorSports.org. Florida’s third-ranked lacrosse team won its home opener against Jacksonville on Wednesday. See story, page 19.
David Carr / Alligator
After not having a foulout throughout the 2010-11 season, Florida has been 
racking them up as of late, totaling three in the past two games. 
  With the season set to begin Fri-
day , you can almost feel it in the air. Florida baseball is just 
about here, and this year, the team has everything a fan could ask for. 
  The top-ranked Gators return every 
member of the weekend rotation, seven positional starters, four seniors and the Southeastern Conference Player of the Year. They’re loaded at the top, and it’s not much different at the proverbial bot-tom, as another heralded crop of fresh-men enter the fray ready to contribute. 
  But what is the only thing missing 
from this national championship equa-tion? You. 
  Last season, Florida set records for at-
tendance, bringing in an average of 3,753 fans every home game for a season total of 153,904. The team also set a single-game record with 5,930 fans in attendance for 
an extra-inning victory against Florida State on March 15. 
  But those 
numbers don’t tell the whole story . 
  McKethan 
Stadium has 
a capacity of approximately 5,500, and not counting the record-setting perfor-mance against the Seminoles, the Gators drew more than 5,000 fans only twice all of last year. Their season average of 3,753 equates to 68 percent of the stadium’s ca-pacity . 
Comparing that number to the rest 
of the Southeastern Conference, it’s clear that Florida fans are falling well short of supporting their team. 
  Of the 12 conference schools, only 
Tennessee (38 percent; ﬁ  nal record of 25-29),  Kentucky (55 percent; 25-30) and Alabama (59 percent; 35-28) were worse at ﬁ  lling the seats. LSU averaged 104 per-cent of capacity, bringing in an average of 10,556 per game. Even Ole Miss, which ﬁ  nished 30-25 and last in the SEC West, ﬁ  lled its stadium to 79-percent capacity on average. Auburn, which closed the regular season 29-27, averaged 72-percent capacity.
  None of those teams were ranked No. 
1 at any point last season — not even  Top-ranked 
UF baseball 
not receiving 
due support  JOHN BOOTHE 
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 A little more than a week ago, the Gators 
barely had to think about losing players to foul trouble. 
  Through 24 games, they had just two 
foulouts — the lowest amount in the South-eastern Conference — and both instances came during comfortable Florida victories. Missing neither Casey Prather in the second half against Stetson nor Patric Young late while hosting UAB hurt the Gators.
  But that was when Florida was still at full 
strength and didn’t have to stretch its start-ers’ minutes to compensate for injuries to Will Yeguete (concussion) and Mike Rosario (hip pointer).
  In UF’s last two games, against Tennes-
see and Alabama, the Gators have had three foulouts and emerged with one win and one loss.
  “I think we got caught in a difﬁ  cult situ-
ation there when Will went down with his injury,” Donovan said.  “We probably had to play some lineups that we’re not accustomed to playing and certainly got into a real bind when Erik Murphy and Patric Young picked up two fouls (against Tennessee).”
  After recording three fouls in 36 minutes 
against the Volunteers, it took Young just 22 minutes on  Tuesday in Tuscaloosa, Ala., to exit with his ﬁ  fth and ﬁ  nal foul. Though he scored 19 points and dominated offensively above the rim, his limited minutes helped hold him to just three rebounds.
  As a team, Florida was out-rebounded for 
the seventh time in 11 SEC games.
  “Our guys’ intentions are always good,” 
Donovan said. “They’re always trying to step up and do some more, but I think in those kinds of situations, instead of trying to step up and do more, we have to try and rely on each other some more. We have to do that on both ends of the ﬂ  oor, both offensively and defensively.” 
  Young has gone through his own ankle 
injury issues in the last month, and Donovan said keeping the 6-foot-9 center fresh and not fatigued will be critical in keeping him Short-handed Gators hearing more whistles 
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmatts
  BRYAN HOLT
 Alligator Writer
   
 Mike Zunino doesn’t bat left-handed. 
  In 2011, Florida’s catcher hit .371 with 19 
homers and 67 RBI, all from the right side of the plate. But during batting practice on Wednesday, Zunino stepped in from the opposite side and deposited a ball over the McKethan Stadium outﬁ  eld wall, inciting some smiles. 
  Zunino said batting left-handed will “ab-
solutely not” be an option this season, but after being named Southeastern Conference Player of the Year as a sophomore, he may be looking for new challenges. 
  “I try not to let it get to me,” he said of the 
expectations. “You’ve got to stay tight-knit 
as a team; just don’t get caught up in the hype.” 
  For Zunino, there is 
plenty of familiarity in his third year at UF. The three starting pitchers he will work with on week-ends are not changing. The three options Florida has to close games have 
not changed. But where he will experience newfound assistance is at catcher, thanks to the addition of a player who should be start-ing his senior season of high school baseball. 
  “He’s ﬁ  tting right in right away,” Zunino 
said of freshman Taylor Gushue. “He works really hard. He’s already getting better as a catcher and a hitter.” 
  With the season opener approaching, 
those words appear to be more than just a veteran player being nice to a newcomer. Through spring scrimmages, Gushue is tied for the team lead in home runs with four. On Sunday , he hit a homer from each side of the plate, one against left-hander Brian Johnson and one against the right-handed Keenan Kish. 
Stalwart Florida catcher has promising backup  
SEE WATTS, PAGE 20
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 20SEE HOOPS, PAGE 20
Gushue
BASEBALLTELLING YOU WATTS UP� FLORIDA EASILY DEFEATED 
JACKSONVILLE, 10-2.
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Florida may be taking a more 
small-ball approach this season, 
but for now, Kelsey Horton is making sure the power of the past remains.
Horton went 2-for-3 with a 
home run and three RBI in No. 1 Florida’s 10-2 win against Jack-sonville in six innings Wednes-day.
The junior designated hit-
ter’s homer was her third in just six games this season, only four home runs short of the seven she hit during the 2011 campaign.
Horton’s mark currently leads 
the team while last year’s leader, junior catcher Brittany Schutte, has yet to go yard.
“It will be everyone at some 
point,” Horton said. “I’m just happy it can be me right now.”
The Gators (6-0) took an early 
2-0 lead when Horton smacked a homer over the left-field wall in the bottom of the second, driv-ing home sophomore shortstop Cheyenne Coyle.
The two-run shot was Flori-
da’s first hit of the game off Jack-sonville starting pitcher Brittany Eppley.
“[Horton]’s a little more com-
posed, thinking about her at-bats a little less,” coach Tim Walton said. 
UF would only record one 
more hit against Eppley but chased her from the game in the bottom of the fourth.
Freshman pitcher Lauren Hae-
ger (2-0) led off the inning with a walk. Schutte followed with a base hit, and after another walk to Coyle the bases were loaded.
The Dolphins (2-4) pulled Ep-
pley in favor of Sarah Sigrest and the floodgates opened.Horton fouled out to the catch-
er, then Ensley Gammel doubled down the left-field line, driving in two runs and doubling the Gators’ lead to 4-0.
Walks to freshman Jessica 
Damico and senior Michelle Moultrie pushed in another run.
“We’re not going to come out 
and hit 12 home runs, but we have a lot of tools to score a lot of runs in different ways,” Hor -
ton said.
On the other side of the ball, 
Haeger made her home debut and mostly held Jacksonville in check.
The freshman pitcher threw a 
complete game, yielding four hits and two unearned runs, walking two and striking out seven.
Haeger’s nerves got the best 
of her in the early going as she loaded the bases in the top of the second inning with just one out on two singles and a walk.
However, she induced a line-
out and a groundout to finish the inning without ceding a run, be-ginning a stretch of eight straight retired batters.
“I felt the pressure a little bit, 
but once I got going, it felt a lot easier,” Haeger said.
The Dolphins proved a pesky 
foe as the game carried on, tag-ging Haeger with two runs in the top of the fifth.
But UF overpowered JU, add-
ing five more runs in the game’s final two frames for the run-rule victory.
“It’s fair to say [Haeger]’s do-
ing well,” Walton said. “But she’s got a long way to go to get where her location needs to be.”
Contact Joe Morgan at joemor-
gan@alligator.org.18, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
David Carr / Alligator
Florida freshman pitcher Lauren Haeger threw a complete game, strik -
ing out seven and walking two in the Gators’ 10-2 win Wednesday.
Horton homer helps UF win home opener
LANDON WATNICK
Alligator Writer
 
After an impressive fresh-
man campaign, Alaina John-
son has so far managed to avoid the dreaded sophomore slump. 
Johnson, who was the 
2011 Southeastern Conference Freshman of the Year, remains one of the Gators’ most consis-tent and productive perform-ers more than midway through the 2012 regular season. 
As an all-around competi-
tor, Johnson averages a 39.475, which ranks third in the coun-try. She is also third in the nation on uneven bars with a 9.888 average — only .002 short of the NCAA leader. She ranks 14th nationally on bal-ance beam (9.833) and 21st on vault (9.875). 
“I like to be, I guess, per -
fect,” Johnson said. “I’ve just learned to know my body and to know what type of correc-tion to make and make it on my own.” 
When Johnson joined the 
team in the fall of 2010, coach Rhonda Faehn said she imme-diately loved Johnson’s cere-bral approach to self-improve-ment.  
“When she finishes some-
thing, whether it’s a routine or a skill, I can see she is already analyzing what she did,” Faehn said. “She’s coming to me right away saying, ‘I think I did this,’ or ‘Was this any better?’ She’s self-correcting, which is wonderful because you know the athlete is getting it.”
Last year, Johnson recorded 
the nation’s second-highest all-around score with a 39.675 against Georgia  and earned All-America first-team honors for vault, bars and floor exer -
cise. 
But toward the end of the 
season, Johnson began to break down physically and struggled with nagging stress fractures in her ribs and shins.
“Something we learned 
about Alaina as a freshman is that she is a little bit more fragile than some of [the other gymnasts] physically,” Faehn said. “Of course she’s incred-ibly strong and in phenomenal shape, but it’s a matter that her physical body type can-not withstand the pounding of repetitive meets in a row in all four events.”
Since the durability of John-
son’s 5-foot-1 frame has been a concern, Florida’s coach-ing staff has made an effort to manage her better this season.
So far, the early rest has 
been beneficial.
Last Friday, in UF’s 197.85-
196.85 victory against then-No. 14 LSU, she won two of her three events.
She tallied a 9.95 on vault, 
— tying her career best — to claim the individual title and scored a 9.9 to tie for the win on uneven bars.
Faehn said Johnson would 
likely see the floor lineup and compete as an all-arounder when No. 2 Florida faces No. 17 Auburn on the road Friday night.
“I’ve been focusing re-
ally hard on my landings and making sure that everything is cleaner (on floor),” Johnson said. “But it’ll be good to go out there and show the hard work I put in.”
Johnson maintaining 
competitive edgegymnAstiCsJOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
On a night when last season’s leading 
scorer played less than a half, the Gators 
were not at a loss for goals.
Nora Barry and Gabi Wiegand made 
sure of it.
Barry and Wiegand each scored five 
goals and Wiegand assisted on another as Florida defeated Jacksonville, 14-5, to improve to 1-1 on the season in its home opener at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
“They’re just really dynamic,” Florida 
coach Amanda O’Leary said of Barry and Wiegand. 
O’Leary praised Barry, a freshman mid-
fielder, for being all over the field and said Wiegand had strong finishes on all of her shots.
Junior attacker Kitty Cullen, the Gators’ 
leading scorer in 2011 and in 2012 prior to playing JU, was forced to leave the game after picking up her second yellow card with 35 seconds remaining in the first half.  
O’Leary said the Gators’ unselfishness al-lowed the team to score in spite of Cullen’s absence. Florida’s 10 assists were one away from tying a school record.
“We have a lot of players that are will-
ing to distribute the ball to each other which is great because it gives us seven offensive threats instead of one or two,” O’Leary said.
Wiegand, a junior attacker, set the tone 
early for UF, completing a hat trick less than 17 minutes into the game.
With UF leading 1-0 in the seventh min-
ute, junior midfielder Brittany Dashiell in-tercepted a Dolphins’ pass in the Gators’ defensive third and took the ball the length of the field. Once she got to the 8-meter arc she passed it to Wiegand on the right side of the crease. Wiegand put it past Dolphins goalkeeper Karli Tobin in the top left cor -ner of the net. 
“I just remember being really happy she 
got the interception,” Wiegand said. “My defender just slid up so I positioned myself and Brittany hit me.”
Barry scored the first goal of her career 
with 27 seconds remaining in the first half when junior attacker Ashley Bruns won a draw control in the left corner of the field. Bruns made one defender miss and passed it to Barry just outside the crease, where she put a shot inside the right post.
“I was really excited,” Barry said. “It 
just gives you so much adrenaline for the rest of the game and I was just happy to have that first goal under my belt.”
After the Gators went up 7-0, the Dol-
phins switched to a backer zone, which puts two defenders on the player with the ball, leaving one attacker open.  The switch got Florida out of sync for a stretch as it went scoreless for eight minutes while Jacksonville cut the lead to 7-3.
The Gators figured out the zone and 
ended their scoring drought on Barry’s third goal of the game at 18:03. Dashiell had the ball and was double-teamed on the left side of the 12-meter fan. She passed it to an unguarded Barry inside the arc. Barry ran past a challenging Tobin and put the ball in the empty net to make it 8-3. 
Barry scored her fourth goal 40 seconds 
later with an assist from Bruns, and Wie-gand scored directly off of the ensuing draw nine seconds later to make it 10-3.
“Sometimes it just takes that one goal to 
really get the momentum going and every-one going,” Barry said. 
“So I was happy I was able to score 
those goals.”  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 19
David Carr / Alligator
Florida senior guard Jordan Jones is setting career-highs in points per 
game and shooting percentage, but she has been slumping of late.
David Carr / Alligator 
Florida freshman midfielder Nora Barry now leads the team in scoring after notching 
five goals in the Gators’ 14-5 win against Jacksonville in the home opener. 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Jordan Jones has played three games since re-
turning from a concussion, but her shooting touch 
has yet to reappear.
Florida’s go-to scorer is just 6 of 26 from the 
field and 3 of 14 from beyond the arc since reenter -
ing the lineup in a win against Ole Miss on Feb. 5.
Despite her struggles, coach Amanda But-
ler said Jones is healthy and expects her to keep shooting.
“You don’t come out of a slump by not tak-
ing shots,” Butler said. “[Jones’] coaches and her teammates still expect her to pull the trigger every time she’s open.”
Jones’ recent slump distracts from an otherwise 
strong offensive season.
She is averaging 11.5 points per game while 
shooting at a 37.2 percent clip, her highest marks in those categories since her freshman season at South Carolina.
However, Jones’ performance at the 3-point 
line has been disappointing compared to previous years and a major factor in her recent cold streak.
She has a 33.6 percentage from beyond the arc 
— 5.1 percent lower than her mark during the 2010-11 campaign.
“Obviously, I’ve been struggling,” Jones said. 
“It’s something that people go through and it’s something I take that responsibility on my shoul-ders.”
Jones’ recent slide is not the first of her career.Last February, she went through a five-game 
stretch where she was 8 of 32 from the field, in-cluding 4 of 20 from 3-point range.
The next two contests — wins on the road 
against Vanderbilt and at home against Georgia — saw Jones score 34 points on 11-of-22 shooting.She hopes to experience a similar turnaround 
in an almost identical scenario this week, playing tonight at Vanderbilt at 9 and against No. 18 Geor -
gia at home Sunday.
“The worst thing you can do is let it get men-
tal,” Jones said. “The worst thing that can happen is to just keep thinking about it, worrying what I’m doing wrong or hoping that the next shot goes in.”
Working to keep a positive mentality after a 
slow start can be a battle for Jones, according to assistant coach Brenda Mock Kirkpatrick.
Jones is shooting 20 percent in the first half in 
the last two games, including an 0-of-4 effort in the first 20 minutes of last Sunday’s 62-58 road loss to No. 25 South Carolina. 
“If she hits that first one, she’s going to hit the 
rest of them,” Kirkpatrick said. “When that first one’s not going in for her, she gets a little shaky with her confidence.”
While Jones brings more to the table than just 
her scoring ability, it is understood among the team and the coaching staff that scoring is her top contribution.
Butler has faith in her veteran guard and be-
lieves it is only a matter of time before Jones re-turns to form.
“Confidence is knowing that the next thing 
that happens is going to be good or going to be in your favor, and that’s the way we want Jordan to think,” Butler said. “She’s mature enough at this point to know that any great shooter is going to miss shots.”
With just four games left to play in the regular 
season and with a potential NCAA Tournament berth on the line, Jones has been doing one thing to prepare: shooting.
“You can’t hope,” Jones said. “You have to be 
confident, and that comes with reps.”
Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@alligator.org.Sharpshooter Jones struggling with shot after concussion
Wiegand, Barry carry Florida to home win; Cullen ejectedThe fast start for Gushue has him 
in consideration for work as a desig-
nated hitter and as a relief option for Zunino in midweek or even week-end situations. 
“We knew he was going to be 
a great player, but the way he has come in and swung the bat this early is a pleasant surprise,” Gators coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. 
Florida’s first-team All-Ameri-
can catcher is taking the mentoring role in stride. Zunino said previous catchers like Ben McMahan helped him when he first got to Florida. Zunino added that he hopes to pass some of the same assistance along to Gushue. That help could go a long way, as Zunino is expected to be an early-round Major League Baseball draft pick in June. 
“We want to show the younger 
guys how the program is supposed to be run,” Zunino said. 
Much like last season, Zunino 
will be a fixture in the middle of the Gators batting order. As a sopho-more, he batted either fourth or sixth 52 times, and the Gators went 38-14 in those contests. 
Though Zunino may be as settled 
as any college catcher in the country , O’Sullivan added that he will still be hands-on with his star catcher and not let him completely take over games on his own. 
“I’ll assist Mike,” he said. “I still watch more film than the players do. I don’t have to worry about En-lgish and chemistry and that stuff. I go home and I watch tapes and that type of thing. Mike’s got a really great feel.”on the court and safe from 
whistles. 
“I’d say [Tuesday] was 
the best I’ve felt in a while,” Young said. “My teammates were able to find me and I was able to run the floor pretty well. The ball was just going in for me and I’m very thankful that it was.” 
During last year’s 37-game 
Elite Eight season, the Gators were the only Division-I team to not have a single foulout. The remaining 344 squads each had at least three.
Before losing Yeguete and 
Rosario, Florida had a similar run going with its 15.4 fouls per game ranking third-low-est in the league. 
The Gators’ last four 
halves of basketball, how-ever, have been a different story with eight UF players committing 41 fouls.
Luckily for Florida, Ala-
bama was also playing short-handed at home after coach Anthony Grant kept suspended forwards JaMy-chal Green and Tony Mitch-ell out of the Crimson Tide’s lineup.
Alabama committed 18 
fouls on Tuesday — one more than Florida — which led to 16 free-throw attempts for the Gators. Guards Kenny Boynton, Brad Beal and Erv-ing Walker combined to make 13 of Florida’s shots from 
the charity stripe. 
“ J u s t 
p l a y i n g with a lot of fight,” W a l k e r said. “Our i n t e n s i t y level has 
been low in games and we just wanted to come in and fight. We know Alabama is a good team. They’re play-ing without two of their best players, but they were going to come in and fight and we wanted to play harder than them.”
Contact John Boothe at 
jboothe@alligator.org.20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2012
Alligator File Photo
Florida junior catcher and All-American Mike Zunino said he is work-
ing with freshman backstop Taylor Gushue to help his transition.
Zunino helping freshman Gushue adapt 
BASEBALL , from page 17
close. None of those teams had the eye-pop-
ping power Florida did. None of those teams even sniffed the College World Series. 
But the Gators played both the NCAA Re-
gional and Super Regional at home, and put on a show while advancing to a second straight CWS for the first time in school history. How-ever, fan support was severely lacking, as UF averaged 3,493 fans and 63-percent capacity during the Super Regional — worse than all Super Regional teams except Cal, which faced Dallas Baptist and drew 57-percent capacity . 
And, please, save the it’s-hot-in-Gainesville 
excuse. Think it wasn’t scalding in Austin in June? Nashville? Tallahassee? The Longhorns drew more than 7,000 fans in 100-degree heat. It was only 91 in Gainesville. 
But when it comes to Florida sports, this 
isn’t a new story by any means. 
UF fans are historically of the fair-weather variety. When the team is winning, then you see full houses. Even the football team strug-gled to fill the seats last season, but at least those Gators had an excuse: The team stunk. 
Florida’s baseball team is the antithesis of 
what Will Muschamp put on the field, and it merits a lot better. Roughly 2,000 South Caro-lina fans showed up last month to watch a pre-season scrimmage, and the Gamecocks have sold out all of their season tickets. But here in Gainesville, there were more scouts on hand at a recent scrimmage than fans, and that should tell you plenty about the quality of this team. 
The fans should be recognized for show-
ing up last season and setting new records, but when that showing doesn’t stack up to the competition, is it really good enough? 
Doesn’t a team that is chasing its first na-
tional title, that is returning seven Preseason All-Americans, that is arguably the best team on campus, deserve more? 
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org.
WATTS , from page 17HOOPS , from page 17Florida did not have 
foulout in 2010-11
Donovan
