VOLUME 106 ISSUE 81 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Imported oranges to be tested for fungicides
Florida oranges have been unaffected, pg 3.  
Cellphone reception to improve in stadium, across campus
The project will begin in February, pg 4. Spring sports preview:
Florida’s baseball, softball, lacrosse and golf 
teams are gearing up for the spring season. Find out what you need to know, pg. 15. 
Armando 
Grundy is one of 
three candidates 
running for the 
District 1 City 
Commission seat.
See story, page 9.
Grundy is one of 
three candidates 
running for the 
District 1 City 
Commission seat.
See story, page 9.
74/41
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  13
SPORTS 14Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Great Balls of Fire
Freshman Elana Selinger, 18, practices ﬁ  re poi, a performance art involving spin-ning balls ﬁ  xed to a chain in circular patterns set on ﬁ  re using lighter ﬂ  uid. Selinger has been practicing ﬁ  re twirling for two months.
� SOUTHWEST RECREATION CENTER 
REACHED CAPACITY.
ADARA NEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Katy Doran got to the Student Recreation and Fitness Center a few minutes before her 
5 p.m. Hatha yoga class last Wednesday. 
She was surprised to ﬁ  nd the class was 
full and the spot she reserved online had been given to a standby student. 
“Every year around this time, I go to the 
gym and it’s way too busy,” said Doran, a 21-year-old journalism junior. “Usually it takes two weeks and the New Year’s resolu-tioners stop coming.” 
As Doran suggested, gyms may not be 
busy for much longer.  
About 50 percent of people who make 
New Year’s resolutions keep their commit-ments for a month, said John C. Norcross, a psychology professor at the University of Scranton. 
The ﬁ  rst few weeks of spring semester 
are always the busiest time of the year for UF’s gyms, said Erica George, a ﬁ  tness as-sociate for UF RecSports. 
“In the entire fall semester, I had never 
seen the gym reach capacity, but this week New Year’s ‘resolutioners’ still flocking to campus gymsJULIA GLUM
Alligator Writer
Don’t try to settle any bets using Wiki-
pedia today. Or browse Reddit. Or check 
Boing Boing.
These websites, along with an estimated 
7,000 others, according to Politico, will black 
out their pages in protest of the U.S. House 
of Representatives’ Stop Online Piracy Act and the U.S. Senate’s Protect IP Act.
SOPA and PIPA are bills not yet ap-
proved as laws that would give entertain-ment companies the power to take down domains that host or link to anything they consider pirated. 
Neither bill has been ﬁ  nalized for pre-
sentation, so language can still be changed. According to the White House website, the Obama administration is against Internet piracy but will not support legislation that restricts freedom of expression or thwarts online innovation.
Today, many blacked-out websites will 
take their normal content down and post information about the bills. 
The English-language Wikipedia will About 7,000 websites 
black out pages in protestON CAMPUS
ALLI LANGLEY
Alligator Writer
Several UF departments are reviewing lab 
safety policies after two students were injured 
in separate incidents in the last three months. 
The second put a graduate student in the hos-
pital.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said hazard-
ous materials teams responded to six incidents 
— three explosions, two spills and one reported 
odor — on campus in the last year.
The chemical explosion on Wednesday in 
Sisler Hall that injured graduate student Khanh 
Ha, 27, and Gainesville Fire Rescue ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter Andrew Marsh, 25, is still under investigation, 
she said.
The chemistry department and UF’s Environ-
mental Health and Safety division are working diligently to ensure students’ safety in labs and 
to minimize the risk of accidents, Sikes said.
In October, an explosion caused by a set of 
chemical reactions surprised the department, 
said Daniel Talham, chair of the chemistry de-
partment.
Last week’s explosion, 
which Talham said was caused by similar reactions, surprised the University Po-
lice Department.
“For our agency to re-
spond to two similar inci-
dents involving the same 
chemical in the same build-
ing in three months is fortunately not some-thing that we routinely see,” said UPD spokes-UF to review chemistry 
laboratory safety policies
SEE GYM, PAGE 8SEE BLACKOUT, PAGE 8SEE EXPLOSION, PAGE 8
“Although it does raise aware-
ness, the congressmen don’t 
care unless you tell them you 
care.”
Dylan Sutton
environmental engineering freshmanSikes
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 81 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Marissa Prieto, mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tom Green, Phil Kegler, Greg Luca,   
  Corey McCall, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Karly Kehres, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Angela Hunter,
  Michael Jimenez, Sarah Platt, 
  Brandon Stern, Kristen Strobel,   
  Courtney Sutherland
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Sign up for Dutch cooking class
Today, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Soon it will be cold enough 
for ice skates, so keep warm by learning how to prepare a traditional and easy Dutch 
meal. The Center for European 
Studies is offering a series of 
cooking classes this semester. Dutch cooking is Monday from 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. The class 
is $25. The small class size en-
sures a hands-on and delicious 
experience for all. Call 352-392-8902 for more information.
Wildlife Society meeting
Today, 5:15 p.m.Newins-Ziegler Hall, Room 112
The UF chapter of The Wildlife 
Society will be hosting its first 
general body meeting of the 
semester. Come learn about opportunities in wildlife con-
servation, animal identification 
and outdoor skill development, 
and network with professionals 
in wildlife-related careers. 
CHISPAS general body meeting
Today, 7 p.m.Reitz Union, Room 355.Interested in human rights and community service? All stu-
dents are welcome to the first 
meeting of the semester. There 
will be free pizza.
Relay for Life team captains 
meetingToday, 7 p.m.McCarty Hall A, Room G186UF Colleges Against Cancer is having its first Relay for Life team captains meeting this se-mester. If you are a team cap-tain, or you are thinking about forming a team, come learn more about this year’s Relay for Life. 
RUB Presents: Drive
Today and Thursday , 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.Reitz Union Auditorium
Ryan Gosling plays a 
Hollywood stunt performer 
who moonlights as a wheel-man and discovers that a con-tract has been put on him after 
a heist gone wrong. The event 
is free and open to the public.
Grand opening of Jesus U
Today, 9 p.m.
111 S Main St.
Jesus U will continue to have 
meetings every Wednesday at 9 p.m. in the same location. It is a nondenominational 
Christian ministry of the Rock 
of Gainesville.
UF Libertarians meeting
Thursday, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Matherly Hall, Room 118The UF Libertarians will be 
holding its first open meeting 
of the semester. Anyone inter -
ested is welcomed and encour -
aged to come learn about indi-vidual liberty and the classical liberal tradition. The event cal-tent more than three times Indi-ana’s legal limit.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Out of room, Mass. man gives up 
94 hamsters 
LAWRENCE, Mass. — A Mas-
sachusetts man has turned over 94 
hamsters to a local animal shelter, telling officials he was running out of room in his apartment.
The director of the shelter says 
the rodents were well cared for and will make nice pets.
Shelter director Mike Keiley 
tells the Eagle-Tribune that the hamsters’ owner, whom he didn’t identify, stopped by this month and said he had a lot of hamsters to surrender.
A Lawrence animal control 
officer says the man was “over -
whelmed” when officials came to get the hamsters Friday and ini-tially wanted to keep a few. But she says he changed his mind.
Officials say the man started 
keeping the hamsters about five years ago.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
inteRnati OnaL
Dutch use F-16s to pursue crimi-
nal suspect 
AMSTERDAM — Talk about 
overkill.
The Dutch air force says two of 
its F-16 jet fighters tried to help po-
lice chase a criminal suspect.
Spokesman Olav Spanjer 
says the jets were about to leave Volkel airbase on a training mis-sion Thursday evening when they heard local police had requested a military jeep to chase a suspect over soggy terrain.
The pilots volunteered to help 
search using their infrared cam-
eras.
Spanjer conceded Friday , “It 
was kind of a long-shot.”
The suspect was in a car with 
stolen license plates that sped 
away when police tried to pull it over. After an exchange of gunfire, the car crashed into a canal and the man ran away across a field.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
cLaRificati On
In Tuesday’s edition of the Al-
ligator, an article on Saturday’s 
SwampCon reported that Gator Anime planned the convention. Gator Anime was one of four clubs — Gator Gaming, Science Fiction Consortium and Delta Nu Delta Tabletop Gaming — that planned the event.endar for the upcoming year, 
including speakers, read-ing groups, campus events and the Students for Liberty 
International Conference, 
will also be discussed. For more information, visit the UF Libertarian table on Plaza 
of the Americas all this week. 
La Casita open house
Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Everyone is invited to partici-pate in this home-away-from-
home environment. There 
will be free pizza and Wii 
games (bring a controller). 
Grand opening at Sew Make 
Do
Saturday, 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
706 NW 23rd Ave.
Come check out Gainesville’s new modern sewing and craft studio. There will be food, drinks and a drawing for a free sewing class. For more information visit www.sewmakedo.com.
Beginner Tango class
Sunday, 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.Student Recreation and Fitness Center SR2
Join us for a beginners tango 
class. No partners, previous experience or special shoes are necessary . 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspa-
per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
nati OnaL
Ind. theft suspect threatens to 
eat police, dogs 
LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Police 
say a man in Indiana accused of 
stealing a car threatened to hunt down and eat his arresting of-ficers, their families and police 
dogs.
The Journal & Courier reports 
39-year-old Paul M. Brock of 
Frankfort was charged Wednes-day with auto theft, resisting law enforcement, intimidation and operating a vehicle while intoxi-cated.
Police in Lafayette, 60 miles 
northwest of Indianapolis, used dogs to subdue Brock during his arrest on Friday.
Police say Brock later told of-
ficers that he would hunt them down and eat them, their fami-lies and their dogs. 
He had a blood-alcohol con-RAIN
74/41SUNNY
71/41PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/49PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/55SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
on campus
EMILY MILLER
Alligator Contributing Writer
Billy Harris spent more time during his 
first two weeks at UF watching the TV show 
“Friends” than making them. 
Harris is from Columbia, Md., and, like 
other out-of-state students, he is outnumbered 
by those who came from Florida. Because he 
isn’t from the Sunshine State, he didn’t have the advantage of being surrounded by familiar high-school faces.
“I didn’t know anyone,” said Harris, a 19-
year-old finance freshman. “And I didn’t go up to people and introduce myself.” 
The Chronicle of Higher Education pub-
lished data in October that stated 5,741 fresh-
man in 2010 — 95.5 percent of the freshman 
class — were Florida residents.
The publication received its data from a 
survey conducted by the U.S. Department of Education. The survey, which is based on where students claim residency at the time they submit their college applications, tracks the relocation of new full-time students at col-leges and universities around the nation. 
The percentage of in-state freshmen at UF 
increased from 2004 to 2008, according to the data. In 2004, 89.4 percent of the freshman class were Florida residents. The percentage has not changed since 2008.
“First and foremost, it is because we are a 
state university,” said UF spokesman Steve Orlando, “and we consider it our primary goal to educate Floridians.”
More than 29,000 students applied to UF for the 2011-2012 school year, and 11,423 students were admitted, Orlando said.
Bright Futures and the cost of tuition may 
contribute to the number of in-state applicants UF receives, Orlando said.
“Tuition is about $2,500 lower than the na-
tional average per year for in-state students,” he said.
Jamie Nesser, a 19-year-old nursing fresh-
man, said convenience is another reason stu-dents choose to stay in Florida. 
“If I was from out of state, I’d barely go 
home, but now I go home all the time,” said 
Nesser, who is from Hollywood, Fla. “I always 
knew I wanted to be close to home.”
She said she likes the fact that she came to 
UF knowing several people.
Paige Gross, a 19-year-old event manage-
ment freshman from Potomac, Md., said the 
high number of students from Florida doesn’t 
affect her.
“I knew that the majority of the people here 
come from in state. I was still going to apply either way,” she said. 
Harris said he regretted his decision to at-
tend UF at one point, but he doesn’t feel that way anymore. He jumped in and joined a fra-ternity, which he said helped.
“People know me more by where I’m from,” 
he said. “It makes me more unique, and I like it.”UF students still mostly in-state 
� FLORIDA ORANGES HAVE 
BEEN UNAFFECTED.
MATT BOLES
Alligator Contributing Writer
Getting that daily dose of Vitamin 
C may cost a little more this month.
The Food and Drug Administra-
tion announced Jan. 9 it will test im-
ported oranges for traces of a fungi-
cide. 
Although government officials are 
only testing foreign oranges, Florida 
citrus farmers expect consumers to be wary of all oranges. 
“When you have less supply to 
meet the demand, the price usually rises in an effort to allow supply and demand to reach equilibrium,” said 
Stephen Futch of the UF Citrus Re-
search and Education Center.
Oranges are the third most-con-
sumed fruit in America, and orange juice is the most consumed juice, ac-cording to the Department of Agricul-
ture.
“Oranges are commodities. In 
theory , if the demand for orange juice 
remains the same following the FDA’s newest restrictions, then the price may go up,” Futch said.
Robert Sexton, owner of Oslo 
Citrus Growers Association in V ero Beach, said he believes the scare will end in 30 days, but consumers will 
have to pay more. 
“It will put a focus on Florida, and 
prices will go higher in retail,” he 
said.
Coca-Cola Co. reported to the FDA 
in December its orange juice, Minute Maid, tested positive for Carbendaz-im,  a fungicide citrus farmers use to prevent mold.
Carbendazim is illegal in the Unit-
ed States but not in Brazil, said Ernie Neff, editor of Citrus Industry maga-zine.
Brazil is the world’s largest produc-
er of oranges, followed by Florida. 
According to the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Develop-ment, 99 percent of Brazil’s oranges 
are exported.
Neff said Carbendazim is not 
harmful in small amounts.
However, the fungicide can cause 
cancer and endocrine and reproduc-
tive problems in humans, according to pesticideinfo.org.Imported oranges to 
be tested for fungicide
“I always knew I wanted to be close 
to home.”
Jamie Nesser
UF freshmanRACHEL CROSBY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Next football season, sending 
“Go Gators” text messages may not 
be as difficult for students at home games. 
UF will start installing a system 
to increase cellphone service on campus this semester, according to John Madey, director of telecom-munications for UF Computing and Networking Services. 
The project is still in its design 
phase, but installation in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium is expected to begin 
in February , Madey said. 
He said installation in the stadi-
um will be completed in time for the first home football game this fall.
The system is expected to boost 
the performance and coverage of 
wireless devices, including smart-phones with Wi-Fi, in specific areas of the school.
The device won’t cost UF any-
thing, Madey said. UF awarded AT&T the roughly $15-million con-tract in May, and AT&T will provide the funding.
The system is anticipated to boost 
call quality , data rate and battery life for users of all major cellphone com-panies. The goal is to reach three bars 
of service across campus, according 
to a news release.
When someone makes a call, his or her phone will use about 300 an-tennae throughout the stadium to connect the call. The antennae will 
be hidden in containers mounted 
on walls and ceilings, according to a news release.
The system is expected to spread 
across campus and will include Li-brary West, the O’Connell Center and the Florida Innovation Hub at UF. The project is expected to be fin-ished in two years, the release said.
Students said they will be glad to 
see cellphone reception improve on campus, especially during football games.
“I’ve noticed that during a game 
there is very poor cellphone re-ception,” said Jennifer Norris, an 18-year-old occupational therapy freshman. “It takes a lot to send mes -
sages.” 4, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012
Emily Doyle / Alligator
Further Review
County Commissioner Mike Byerly asks Larry Sapp, county purchasing manager, questions regarding a local 
hiring preference at a meeting of the Alachua County Commission on Tuesday night. The commission did not reach a decision but passed the item to city staff for further review. Read the story on alligator.org.
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
When sophomore Michael Llerena 
tells people he’s an aspiring journalist, 
they question his career choice. 
“People have an overwhelming fear 
that the field of journalism is dying, and it’s not,” said Llerena, a 20-year-old journalism major. “While newspapers 
may be dying, the field of journalism is 
not dying; it’s merely changing.”
Enrollment in the journalism major 
has actually been growing at UF. Since last fall, enrollment for journalism is 
up by about 2 percent. Numbers for all 
majors in the College of Journalism and Communications are up from last year. 
For the past 18 to 24 months, there 
has been an overall increase in enroll-
ment, said Michael Weigold, the col-
lege’s associate dean of undergraduate affairs and enrollment management. He said the growth is a testament to the college’s leadership, professors and curriculum. 
Public relations enrollment is up by 
about 18 percent, advertising enroll-ment is up by about 5 percent and tele-communication is up by about 11 per -
cent. However, these 
numbers change daily, 
Weigold said. 
Although he said 
he did not want to 
speculate why public 
relations has grown as a major, Weigold said UF is one of the few 
schools to offer it as a degree. 
According to the College Board web-
site, 265 colleges offer PR as a major. 
Nicole Cuccaro, a 19-year-old public 
relations sophomore, has noticed more people switching into her major. She said many of her friends who were un-declared or who decided to change ma-jors switched to public relations. 
“It’s a really good degree to come out 
with because it’s so versatile,” she said. “It prepares you for any kind of work you want to go into.” 
Numbers at Medill School of Jour -
nalism, the journalism college at North-western University, have remained constant. Medill enrolls the maximum number of students each year, said Keri 
Disch, the college’s director of student 
life. 
The University of North Carolina 
School of Journalism and Mass Com-munication offers students one major 
with specialized core courses.  How-
ever, students are enrolled in the school after earning 60 credit hours, according to the school’s website. Enrollment up in UF’s College of Journalism and Communications
ENROLLMENT CHART
School
Number of students
recent changes in enrollmentwho is counted
 Northwestern University 
684 students
stable
all journalism majors
 University of Florida 
2,300-2,400 students
increased between 2 and 18 percent per major
all majors
 University of Missouri  
1,900-2,000 students
slight fluctuations either wayall majors
 University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill  
652 students (as of Fall 2011)decreasedjournalism majors with at least 60 credit hours
Project to begin in February� LIBRARY WEST AND 
STARBUCKS ARE NOW OPEN 24-HOURS A DAY, SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY.
KYRA LOVE
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Library West began the new 
semester with new hours, and 
students have been adjusting accordingly.
This semester, Library West 
is open 24 hours a day Sunday through Thursday as part of a pilot project funded by Student Government.
“It’s something everybody 
has asked for multiple times, so we’ll see how it goes,” said Patrick Reakes, chair of Library 
West.
Even though it’s only the 
first week of school, Reakes 
said the number of people us-
ing the library’s late hours has 
been growing every day.
Ruhiyyih Bannister, a di-
etetics sophomore, was in the library past 1 a.m. during the 
first week of school.
“I feel more focused when I 
come to the library,” Bannister said.  “If it gets to be 1 a.m. or 2 
a.m. and I still need to get work done — if I’m at home I’m defi-nitely going to go to sleep.”
When it becomes available, 
data on the number of people using the library during its new hours will be analyzed to decide if it will continue to stay 
open late.Reakes said it will probably 
always be fairly slow after 2 
a.m., except during finals.
Michele Lesure, the over -
night supervisor at Library West, works from midnight to 9 a.m. Sunday through Thurs-day.
She said she enjoys work-
ing overnight.
“You see the same people,” 
she said. “There are lots of reg-
ulars, and I have a feeling that 
I’m going to get to know a lot more people.”
The Starbucks on the 
ground floor maintains the 
same hours as the library.
Starbucks employee Laura 
Talafer, 21, a psychology se-
nior, works until 2 a.m. two to three nights a week. 
She isn’t paid more per hour 
during the new hours. 
Overnight supervisors are 
paid more, although Reakes and Lesure declined to say how much. 
Overall, the library’s new 
hours are a positive change, 
Talafer said.
Without the later hours, her 
busy schedule wouldn’t allow 
her to work.
“It’s bittersweet because 
yes, I’m tired, but even more yes, I need the hours,” she said.More students take 
advantage of library’s new late-night policy
Phone reception to improve in stadiumWeigold
“I feel more focused 
when I come to the 
library.”
Ruhiyyih Bannister
UF sophomore WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
JOLISA CANTY
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Since opening in October, Florida 
Innovation Hub at UF has already 
made a difference for startup com-panies housed in the new facility , some companies’ presidents said. 
The Innovation Hub was built to 
supply startup technology compa-nies with the facilities they need to conduct research.
“The hub has already helped sig-
nificantly ,” said Mike Giampietro, president of Generation Wy , one of the businesses that moved into the Innovation Hub.
Generation Wy plans to develop 
and market a product to prevent interference with cable and satellite communication using large band-width spectrum areas called “white space,” according to the Innovation Hub’s website.
“White space wireless has been 
referred to as Wi-Fi on steroids,” Gi-ampietro said. 
White space provides additional 
capacity for high-speed Internet, making it faster, according to the website. 
Inside its office at the Hub, Gen-
eration Wy benefits from office space and access to the expertise of attorneys and engineering experts, Giampietro said.
A company called eTect is also 
settling in at the Hub.
Eric Buffkin, president of eTect, 
said the company makes a drug cap-sule that tracks when someone takes a medication for a clinical trial. 
In the past, drug companies have 
relied solely on the responses of re-cipients who are testing the drug.  Using eTect’s computerized capsule, drug companies can track who actu-ally took the drug and when they took it.
Buffkin said being in the Innova-
tion Hub is also a networking op-portunity.
Other companies that have 
moved in and are expected to start 
conducting research are Apollidon, 
NanoPhotonica, NeuroNet, One 
Software, Mind 2 Market, Shadow Health and Totuit.
“This looks to me like an empire 
that could provide great innova-
tion,” Giampietro said of the Inno-
vation Hub community.Innovation 
Hub at UF helping establish startups 
“White space wireless 
has been referred to as    
Wi-Fi on steroids.”
Mike Giampietro
president of Generation WyReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR17% YES
83% NO
52 TOTAL VOTESTuesday’s question: Are you doing 
homework early to prepare for Wikipedia’s shutdown?Today’s question: Is going to the gym more one of your 
New Year’s resolutions?
Forcing the Hand  
Let employers require 
high school diplomas
Employers around the country have become concerned 
about a letter from the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission that says requiring a high school diploma 
for certain job positions could violate the Americans with Dis-abilities Act. 
Specifically, the commission argues that many disabled ap-
plicants might be unable to obtain a high school diploma and 
could be screened out as potential job applicants due to their 
disabilities.
This could create problems for employment if employers 
fear the legal consequences for requiring applicants to have a high school diploma, even when the job requires that aptitude. 
Employers would have to spend more time defin-
ing and describing the duties of each job and justify-ing why such a position requires a high school diplo-
ma. If they fail to meet the standards set by the EEOC, 
they could face expensive and burdensome lawsuits.  
Some have also argued that, for many, there might be less of an 
incentive to obtain a high school degree if more employers are 
afraid to make it a qualification. Whether this would occur is 
debatable, but it should make the commission re-evaluate pos-
sible unintended consequences of this interpretation. 
But the consequences of the commission’s opinion  are no-
where near as bad as the philosophical principles which it vio-
lates. 
First, the commission’s interpretation is an attack on indi-
vidual achievement. It does not see people in terms of their dis-
tinguished merits, but instead views people as part of collective groups, all of which deserve equal opportunity, regardless of 
qualifications.
While the EEOC may argue that it is not trying to eliminate 
standards of employment, many employers might lower their 
qualifications for fear of frivolous lawsuits, especially in this 
economy. 
Second, the fact that the commission is dictating the sort of 
people that a business owner can hire is an anathema to the en-
tire idea of economic liberty. The statements by the commission make it appear as though it, as an agent of the state, is the true 
owner of the businesses. However, in its gracious wisdom, it 
allows private individuals to control the day-to-day operations — as long as they conform to the government’s rules, that is. 
While it may sound cruel, people should be allowed to hire 
whomever they want without fear of consequences. Those who require outrageous qualifications, or those who discriminate based on arbitrary considerations such as race or gender, will be run out of business by competitors who employ fair hiring 
practices. 
But the laws of economics do not concern those at the EEOC 
or members of many bureaucracies, for that matter. Instead, the 
freedom to hire or not hire is trumped by arbitrary notions of “fairness.” Homesickness shows one’s strength
We have made it to the second week of the 
spring semester. For many of us, the feeling is bittersweet. The second week is the time 
when college habits reassert themselves fully: We’ve gotten our schedules and our books, and winter break at home with family seems only a distant memory. This college life is a strange thing. We have two homes: one 
with family and one here in Gainesville. We have two 
places to call our own, yet paradoxically, we truly have no place. It is enough to make one utter the maligned phrase, “I am homesick.”
Many experienced this emotion as they pulled out of 
their family’s driveways in cars laden with luggage for the trip home. Few admit it; however, who among us does not feel it when we drive through the storied land-marks of adolescence? There is a distinguishable pull 
— a voice in one’s head that asks, “What are you doing? 
Your place is with your family, not some school a world apart.” We think these things, but we do not vocalize them to our peers. To do so would be to admit immatu-rity and weakness, or so we think.  
We live in the most mobile society ever experienced 
by mankind. We have cars that can take us hundreds of miles in a day and planes that can fly us around the globe. When we graduate, we expect to take jobs around 
the country to promote our careers. We have learned 
that the path to success is one of constant motion. We live in a world where sentimentality is nothing but an accursed weakness. 
We find ourselves scorning our backwards ances-
tors — those medieval paupers who never traveled more than 30 miles from their homes because they lived in poverty, never dreaming of what we have accom-plished. 
We have skyscrapers that would make the Tower of 
Babel look like a crude shanty. We have machines that allow us to craft technologies unthinkable 100 years ago. We have amassed great wealth because we are not afraid to move, not afraid to sunder our 
roots in search of richer pas-
tures.
And yet, as we leave our 
family driveways to pursue our 
education, that voice persists, 
“This is your place.” “Place” — 
it’s a quaint word, isn’t it? It is a word forgotten in our constant struggle for achievement. Our place, we think, is irrelevant, a means to an end. Place is for the weak and 
the complacent. Those who cry “Homesick!” are surely 
just those who were not mature or strong enough, the pitiful souls who could not embrace what mankind is capable of accomplishing if only we could forget such 
existential limits. Or so we think. 
However, the voice persists. No matter how excited 
one is to return to college, there is always a feeling that 
what he or she is doing is unnatural. As the modern age crept upon us, did we sell our souls for greater wealth 
and opportunity? I would not assert that leaving home 
for college is immoral. However, that feeling of home-sickness is not a sign of weakness either. 
Rather, it is a sign of our strength and of our innate 
love for the family and landmarks we have come to know over time. Even as modern students, we still hold in our hearts the flickering light shared by those who came before us, who knew that place and limits were important features of any life. 
Do not hasten to leave behind these roots, for they will 
prove more permanent than any college transcript or fu-ture career. Most important of all, do not be ashamed of homesickness, but embrace it. It is proof of your human-
ity in an age of mechanization and transience. 
Luke Bailey is a history junior at UF. His column ap-
pears on Wednesdays. 
Luke Bailey
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Although planning and preparation for the spring 
semester is in full gear for many students on cam-pus, the most popular social networking site in the 
United States is asking users to put down the planner and hop in the DeLorean.
Facebook officially released the Timeline feature, its 
attempt at churning forward while sideswiping competi-tors such as Path and Evernote, on user profiles Tuesday.
So, here are some tips to familiarize you with the new 
features so you can continue lurking randoms in the back of your core humanities class:
There are three key changes to the Facebook profile: 
cover, stories and apps. Lazy bodies, rejoice; only one of these changes — cover — requires you to do anything.
The cover feature allows someone to post a massive landscape-oriented backdrop at the top of his or her profile. It can either be a fond memory, large-scale por -
trait or scenic identity claim.
After combing through hun-
dreds of profiles, the best use of the cover feature seems to be a picture that accents the page. Your profile picture shows your face, so a portrait superimposed on a portrait is overbearing.
You also run the risk of hurting yourself with group 
photos on your page. For example, friends posing with considerably more attractive roommates in their covers. Now I’m lurking their pages to find that person’s profile. Give yourself a fighting chance — stick to landscapes.
The next feature, stories, provides friends with a tour d’horizon of a particular time period during your life. It helps you remember the highlights of 2011 so you don’t have to read the countless lists from news organizations doing it for you. 
There’s nothing really to suggest for this section other 
than making updates more meaningful.
Finally, the apps feature gives friends an extensive 
look at your consumption habits. While it’s obviously a goldmine for advertisers, it has its humanistic advantages as well. 
For example, friends who link their Spotify, Netflix 
and other accounts to their page let you see what they’re watching and/or listening to. 
Stephen Ward is a columnist for The Nevada Sagebrush at 
the University of Nevada.Facebook changes give users more choices in presentationUWire
Stephen Ward
UWirealone it has reached capacity on 
more than one occasion,” George said.   
In the event that the gym reaches 
capacity, a “one-in, one-out” policy is implemented, George said. 
During the first week of Janu-
ary, Southwest Recreation Center and Student Recreation and Fitness Center had a combined daily aver -
age of 6,774 students, said Pamela Hightower, a coordinator for ad-ministrative services for UF RecS-ports. 
About 1,000 more people per 
day were using campus gyms than during the first week of fall semes-ter, she said.
Gainesville Health & Fitness 
Center experiences similar trends, 
said Debbie Lee, the center’s direc-
tor of marketing.
In addition to an increase in ex-
isting members, Gainesville Health 
& Fitness Center also sees a spike in 
enrollment. 
To motivate new members to 
continue working toward their fit-ness goals, the gym has developed 
a free six-week program designed 
to help create and execute a fitness 
plan. 
Whether you resolve to quit 
smoking, eat healthier or work out more doesn’t matter, Lee said.   
“Just pick something and actu-
ally do it.”8, ALLIGATOR � WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012
Lauren Adamson / Alligator
Student Body President Anthony Reynolds and former Student Body President Ben Meyers ad -
dress the Student Senate meeting Tuesday night. 
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
UF Student Senate gave its final ap-
proval to Student Government elections 
rule changes during Tuesday night’s meeting. The changes passed in time to affect the spring elections in February.
After a meeting on Sunday, the elec-
tion codes revisions committee amend-ed several of the changes read during the meeting held the week before. No one outside the committee submitted amendments, which can be made be-tween the preliminary and final approv-al votes.
“I think the changes are very com-
prehensive, and we completed the goals that the committee set out to accom-plish,”  said committee co-chairwoman and Unite Party Sen. Katie Waldman after the meeting.
The changes come after the results of 
the Fall 2011 elections were questioned, and the UF Supreme Court investigated the elections procedures. UF’s new elec-
tronic voting system was put in place for 
the fall semester, and Waldman previ-ously said the amended codes were tai-lored to fit the new system.
As part of the changes, UF’s Super -
visor of Elections must present a con-tingency plan to the Senate two weeks prior to the elections cycle. 
Students Party Sen. Carly Wilson 
disagreed with the wording of the new amendment. She said the Senate should approve the contingency plan, not just hear a presentation.
“[The Supervisor of Elections] can 
present something, but we can’t do any-thing about it,” she said. 
The Supervisor of Elections will also 
have to make the election codes and oth-er regulations available on the SG web-site. He or she must post a list of polling locations on the SG website and through at least two other venues. The Supervi-sor of Elections was previously required 
to post the list in student dorms.
The codes now enable the Supervi-
sor of Elections to add or change a poll-
ing location if one becomes unavailable. The locations must be approved by the Senate, and a replacement location must be the closest available building to the original polling spot. The change will be posted at the original location.
Senators also voted to push back elec-
tions by a half hour. They will run from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m,. instead of 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Complaints must be submitted on the second day of voting before mid-night with no exceptions. 
Spring SG elections will be held Tues-
day, Feb. 21 and Wednesday, Feb. 22.Student Senate approves changes to election codes
Environmental Health and Safety division investigating explosion
man Maj. Brad Barber.
In both cases, the reactions involved sodium azide, but 
Talham said that particular chemical was not necessarily the 
culprit.
The director of Environmental Health and Safety , William 
Properzio, said sodium azide is routinely used in labs. He said 
UF has about 3,000 labs on campus.
Since the October explosion, EHS has worked with the 
chemistry department to ensure researchers follow safety pro-cedures, he said.
Talham said the safety training done since October mitigat-
ed the effects of last week’s explosion.
All four people in the lab when the explosion occurred were 
wearing the right equipment, he said, and they reacted prop-
erly. His department doesn’t want to be too critical of the re-
sponse to the incident, he said, because “we don’t want people 
to be afraid to respond correctly.”
The chemistry department is first concerned with student 
safety and lab clean-up, Talham said, and then the department 
investigates the incident.
Sisler Hall closed Wednesday night and 
reopened Friday . On Monday , an outside 
company removed the remaining hazard-
ous material that hadn’t reacted and cleaned 
the lab where the incident occurred.
The lab reopened Tuesday , Properzio 
said, but no one is allowed to do experi-ments there until EHS finishes investigating 
the incident.
Talham said because Ha is still recovering, the exact cause 
of the explosion remains unknown. “We don’t want to go bombard him with things he shouldn’t 
be worrying about right now,” he said.
Talham said the chemistry department is collaborating with 
the Dean of Students Office, Office of the Provost, Office of Re-
search and University Police to review procedures for handling 
potentially dangerous reactions and will continue to do so.
Stephanie Hull, a 20-year-old chemistry junior, said she 
feels safe in lab because she doesn’t work with the same mate-
rials as graduate students.
“If I were a grad student,” she said, “I might be a little skep-
tical about how they’re going about teaching safety.”
Hull plans to apply to UF’s chemistry graduate program.Talham stressed that experiments done on campus are 
small-scale compared with industrial standards.
“The building won’t come crashing down on anyone’s 
head,” he said.
However, he said, “one injury is too many.”ExpL osion , from page 1Gym , from page 1About 6,800 students were 
going to campus gyms daily Google, Facebook to operate normally
be blacked out for 24 hours, while Reddit will be 
down from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., according to their re-spective websites. 
Google will not black out, but its main search 
page will include a link for users to learn about 
the bills. Twitter and Facebook will operate as 
normal. 
Other blackout participants include TwitPic, 
WordPress.com and Minecraft. The Cheezburger Network — which includes Fail Blog, the Daily What and Know Your Meme  — will black out, and so will MoveOn.org.
Gerald Haskins, UF senior lecturer and Inter -
net law expert, said he thinks the blackout will 
spread awareness. 
The recording and motion picture agencies 
behind the bills are up against large Internet cor -
porations, he said.
“It’s not David versus Goliath. It’s Goliath ver -
sus Goliath,” Hasksins said. “I think it could be a 
big fight. ”
Dylan Sutton, an 18-year-old environmental 
engineering freshman, is not so sure. People need to protest by contacting their representatives, he said.
“Although it does raise awareness, the con-gressmen don’t care unless you tell them you care,” Sutton said.
Grooveshark, a Gainesville-based music 
streaming website, will help its visitors do just that.
Instead of blacking out, the site is dedicating 
part of its advertising space — essentially , the “skin” people see when they first visit the homep-
age — to protest the bills.
Visitors can enter their information and the 
Grooveshark page will find the contact informa-
tion for their representatives, said Paul Geller, se-
nior vice president of external affairs.
Grooveshark will also hide an Easter egg that 
will take visitors to a censored version of the site, 
where song titles and album names are blacked out.
Geller said he thinks the overall Internet black-
out will be revolutionary.
“I don’t think there’s ever been a concerted ef-
fort by Internet businesses to stand up to censor -
ship before,” he said.BLAckout , from page 1
properzio
“It’s not David versus Goliath. It’s 
Goliath versus Goliath.”
Gerald Haskins
UF senior lecturer and Internet law expertJON SILMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
At 10 years old, his love for poli-
tics developed while ironing clothes 
for school and watching ‘92 presi-dential candidates on “Good Morn-ing America,” per dad’s orders. 
Even though he wanted to watch 
cartoons, it stuck.
“Bill Clinton inspired me. He 
said, ‘we need change.’ I was just awestruck.”
Armando Grundy is  one of three 
candidates running for Gainesville City Commission, District 1. He’s half black and half Hispanic. He’s 32. 
His parents divorced when he was 
4, and he grew up in Harrisburg, Penn. with a mom who worked two jobs — one at the U.S. Department of Treasury, and one at Sears — to pay for Christmas presents.
“It was a pain that didn’t go 
away for many years,” Grundy said about the divorce. “It destroyed me 
as a kid.”
At age 10, he moved to Jackson-
ville to be with his dad, who he said 
taught him to be a man by making him do chores and forcing him to stay abreast of current events.
Dad couldn’t pay for college, 
so Grundy joined the Army to get the G.I. bill and pay for school. He 
served his country from ‘97 to ‘05. 
He never went to war. 
He enrolled in St. Leo Univer -
sity and is one semester away from a bachelor’s in political science and international studies, with a minor in urban planning and leadership, he said.
He said he might go to law school 
one day , but for now, he’s focused on the race.
“What I do understand is that in order to lead others, you need to be a servant,” he said. “I’ve been a ser -
vant. I’ve served my country .” 
He said this kind of experience, 
like his upbringing, prepared him for a life of public service.
He lives in east Gainesville and 
doesn’t own a car. 
“I have three modes of transpor -
tation,” he said, “Nike, Reebok and RTS.”
As for his campaign, the No. 1 is-
sue is “jobs, jobs, jobs.” He wants to make it easier for businesses to open in east Gainesville by streamlining the permit process. He calls the bio-mass plant a non-issue because the ground has already been laid for the project, and he thinks it’s hijacking the real issues of the campaign.
“Folks in District 1 are unem-
ployed or underemployed,” he said. “That’s why it’s at the top of my platform.”
He said he’s been advocating for 
District 1 since ‘07, when he went to a city council meeting and observed current commissioner Scherwin Henry in action. He was so im-pressed with the man that in 2008 he 
asked Henry to mentor him. Henry 
agreed.
“I’ve been the only candidate con-
sistently involved in the process,” he said, citing his work to improve ac-cess by RTS to east Gainesville resi-dents.
He said he was instrumental in 
extending the route times for east 
Gainesville from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m.
“Transportation planning is my 
specialty,” he said.
In addition, he wants to reduce 
Gainesville crime by promoting 
crime-watch organizations and sup-porting after school programs.
Previously, Grundy lost an elec-
tion for District 3 in 2008. 
“I’m running because I’m the 
only candidate in this race who has been working to better the district,” he said. “I understand it will be Dis-trict 1 to elect me, but I’ll be a change that represents all people.” WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Armando Grundy, 32, is one of three candidates running for Gainesville City Commission, District 1.
Commission candidate focused on businesses in east Gainesville
He considers biomass plant a non-issue in raceMONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2011
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-25-11-72-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-25-72-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld
352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-25-11-72-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
4-25-11-72-1
$795-2/2 Furnished Apt. On bus route, 1.5 
miles to UF campus. W/D, AC, Cable and in-ternet included. Pool, Fitness ctr., computer lab. No application fee. Yearly and monthly lease. 305-793-4290.   1-25-11-22-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-25-11-72-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600
$99 Move In Special!
352-372-7555
FrederickGardens.com
4-25-11-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-25-11-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
4-25-11-72-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-25-11-72-2 ***MAKE US YOUR HOME***
·         Water/sewer included * Pets Ok
·         Pools*Tennis*Bball*Fitness*Tan
·         1 from $629 * 2 from $715
·         3 from $830 * 4 from $1125
·         376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-25-11-72-2
MOVE IN BY JANUARY 5th
2/2: $300 Cash Back
3/3: $500 Cash Back
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
4-25-72-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-25-11-72-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-25-11-72-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
Studio $410 1BRs $425-495
2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!
●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com4-25-11-72-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 
4352-335-4455    4-25-11-72-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000
●4/2 in NW $1300.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com       4-25-11-72-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 
376-5887                       2-3-91-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave - Across from law school
$1650-special spring rate! - 4BR/2BA
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-31-12-16-2
SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
2BR/1.5BA close to UF, Shands,Vet School
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Contact our office to
inquire about student specials!!!!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting from $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-23BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced 
large backyard, fireplace. $900/mo. Prefer 
students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-
6183     1-24-11-10-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099    2-6-12-21-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
1-31-12-16-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA great house. 
Fireplace, wash/dry provided, dishwasher, 
wood floors, fenced. Pets OK. 7 min bike to 
campus. $1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-
339-2342. Gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-20-12-9-2
Beautiful 2-story house. 2.5 miles from UF. 
5BR/2.5BA 2400sq.ft. on large treed lot. 
Very quiet neighbrhd. H/W & tile floors, W/D, 
ref, stove, dishwasher. $1600/mo & security 
deposit. 727-686-1404 Available now!   1-24-
11-10-2
3BR/1.5BA in Pleasant St, historic district, 
dwntwn. Ceiling fans, wood floors. Porch, 
newly painted. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. $1100/
mo call April. 538-1550
aprleve@aol.com   1-31-12-15-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    1-31-12-14-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA large house w/ big 
bedrooms & living room, extra game room. Fenced. Pets ok. W/D provided. 352-335-2342 or text 2100 NW 8th Court. $1400/mo or go to gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-20-12-7-2
1/1 spacious apt, $500,quiet, private,trees, 
close to downtown and UF, bus to SFC, car-
pet & tile, pvt. patio w/locking gate, for calm, 
stable, mature people.1824 NW 9th St. 352 
284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   2-1-12-14-2Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/3BA house. Incredibly 
beautiful, clean, modern house. W/D pro-
vided, fireplace, vaulted ceilings, lg rooms. 
2108 NW 8th Ct. Text or call 352-339-2342. 
$1550/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  
1-20-12-4-2
AVAILABLE NOW!! 
WALK TO UF! Nice 2BR/1BA house. $450/
mo. Call Richard 371-4367   1-30-10-2
1 BED/1 BATH. Walk to Shands/UF.
Great kitchen and bath with w/d, disposal, dishwasher. Overlooks creek and trees. Small pet ok. $535+ deposit. 352-371-9520, 352-317-2642    2-14-12-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Luxury apartment at the Palms Downtown 
2BR/2BA SUBLEASE Jan-June 2011. 2 park-
ing spaces, Stainless steel, granite, washer/
dryer, HUGE closets right downtown, safe, 
exclusive luxury building. Just $1100/month 
($200 off normal rates) Email me for details: 
andrewufl@gmail.com   1-20-7-3
Districts on 62nd: 1/1 in Male 3/3 furnished 
apt. $407/month includes utilities credit, cable, high-speed internet. Near Oaks Mall, UF + SFC, on bus route. Move in 2/1/12 w/lease end 7/31/12. Some fees will apply.Criminal background check. 386-747-1401.   1-20-12-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $369/MO
cable, internet, utilities, pool+ more
beautifully renovated, on bus route,  
Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-24-
12-24-4
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325
jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com  
1-23-12-15-4
Roommates needed. House 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row, near Shands, Tigert, Mid/Downtown. 4 lg BR/2BA. Students preferred! Huge, very clean home. Cent AC/H, FP , W/D, new wd flrs, DW, 5 extra closets, fenced yard, plenty of parking, on quiet street. Only $398/mo/room. Call/text Jordan 305-896-90661-31-19-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
1-30-12-15-5
CONDO FOR SALE - SPARROW
3BR/2.5BA, 2-story. Approximately 1700 sq. 
ft., completely renovated. $65,000. Please call Drew 316-4465   2-10-12-20-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       
4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
WE PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR CELL PHONES! 
REGARDLESS OF AGE OR CONDITION EVEN IF BROKEN! TECHMODO 6450 SW ARCHER RD 352-872-5881. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK!  1-31-15-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
12, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2011
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory Refurbished
Check Us Out Before You Buy!!
Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL
352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com
4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-
73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I BUY JUNK CARS
●●● TOP PRICES PAID!●●●Call Anytime 352-443-11001-31-11-65-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECKS
CASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $999
94 FORD TAURUS $999
96 HONDA ACCORD $1499
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $1999
01 DODGE NEON $1999
00 OLDS ALERO $2500
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $7999
05 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999
352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      
1-9-11-72-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
VIDEO TECH
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
AVIATION EDITOR
PROOFREADER
LINUX ADMINACT COORDINATOR
GRAPHICS DESIGNER
AVIATION SALES
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Career and non-career positions available.
Please apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment             1-24-
27-14 Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between 
the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-
tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking 
Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or
smokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   
1-31-12-27-14
NOW HIRING
Outstanding Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2012
ADV3008         ENT3003               MAR3023
BSC2010         ENY1001               MUH4016
BSC2011         FOS2001               PSY2012BUL4310         GEB3373               RTV3405ECO2013        MAN3025               STA2023
ECO2023        MAN4504          … and more!
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-23-11-15-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
TUTORS FOR SPRING 1-on-1 tutoring at-
risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF 
Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers 
welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net
1-31-12-15-14A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counselors 
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp 
located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 
11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. 
www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx
4-25-12-72-14
Sports Director for i9 Sports. Flexible hrs w/ 
20-25 hrs a week required. Must love kids, 
sports, and have a self motivating attitude. 
Great experience for Sports Mgmt students. 
Send resume to jhetzel@i9sports.com.   
1-20-9-14
FT NANNIES NEEDED NOW: 18 mon/
triplets; M-F 8-5; prev. exp; LONG TERM 
COMMIT ONLY! Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix, & schedule to info@noah -
sarknanny.com   1-19-12-9-14
 MONDAY, AUGUST 22, 2011 §  ALLIGATOR, 13
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi -
cated people who love working with children. 
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA 
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 
377-2290 or 373-1481   1-24-12-10-14
WAITPERSONS
Experienced & friendly. Evenings. Apply in 
person between 3 & 5pm. NAPOLATANO'S, 616 NW 75th St    1-18-12-5-14
Marketing Assistant
Heat Pipe Technology Inc, a local manu-
facturer is looking for a part time marketing 
assistant: 10-20 hours per week at
$10/hour. Flexible schedule.
Please respond to: sales@heatpipe.com
1-25-12-10-14
Medical Office Manager Trainee wanted for 
mid-sized dermatology practice. Duties in-clude performing or supervising ICD-9/CPT coding, billing and collections; A/R; payroll management; employee supervision and maintenance of employee records and ben-efits; insurance evaluation and contracting; interfacing with clinical staff and physicians; preparing financial reports and interfacing with accountant. Seeking a mature, ener-getic individual with experience but will train motivated candidate. Salary, benefits and possible incentive commensurate with ex-perience. Bachelor's degree desired. Email resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com.    1-23-12-7-14Receptionist needed for a professional office 
with a creative,entrepreneurial,team based 
work environment competitive pay + benefits 
FT/PT M-F 9-5 email resume to
Corey@mssgainesville.com    1-24-12-7-14
UF Survey Research Center
Spanish speakers needed!
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.75-$9.25/hr + Incentive
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
1-20-12-5-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse. Apply 
from 2:30 to 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please.   1-20-5-14
NEED SPANISH TUTOR TO LEARN 
CONVERSATIONAL SPANISH.GOOD 
PERSONALITY.APPLY IN PERSON AT 
3535 N MAIN ST.ASK FOR JIM.    1-24-7-
14
Medical Research Assistant
Phys Therapy Clinic.
CVs to larryw@clearpassage.com    1-20-12-4-14Getyournotes.com
is now hiring note takers.
Apply online at http://Getyournotesatuf.com    
1-20-4-14
One serious hardworking and trustworthy UF 
student. Gen or const labor, exp w/electrical 
& plumbing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy 
lifting. PT flex hrs. $7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 
376-6183     1-20-12-3-14
SEDENTARY adults (50+) needed to par-
ticipate in a UF GetUpAndGo study re: ac-
curacy/likability of advanced pedometer. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email fitbit10000@gmail.com   1-23-
4-14
Transcribe audio dictations. Create your 
own skd M-F, 7am -midnight. Comp 7.67 - 
$12+ hourly, based on speed and accuracy. 
Close to campus. Ideal for PT and Students! 
Requires 70+ wpm, a minimum of 16 hours 
per week, English as first language.
gnvjobs@uigfla.com    1-24-12-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Need performance credit?
5$ student tkts - Monday, Jan.23, 7 pm
'The Nightingale and the Rose'
Hippodrome Theatre, 375-HIPP    1-23-12-
8-20
Own a Home Biz! Average $200-$600/
week! Cash for school/fun! Earn more for Referrals! Free Workshop! 888-754-5368. www.2012homebiz.com    1-20-12-4-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville  Better Prices
Better Fields  Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-
try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider 
housing available. Barn Family Program to 
mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling 
opportunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    
2-29-11-51-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    1-31-12-12-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   2-15-12-25-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Florida’s 2012 Class
What is the biggest hole the Gators need to fill with this year’s incoming 
recruiting class? A. Running Back B. Wide Receiver C. Defensive Line 
D. Offensive Line. Vote online at alligatorSports.org. Is Will Muschamp assembling a recruiting class fans should be excited about in 2012? We let two of our writers debate. See The Rally, page 16.  
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Senior center Azania Stewart (13), who is averaging only 2.8 points during South-
eastern Conference play, has been supplanted by forward Ndidi Madu as a starter. 
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Amanda Butler admits she is an emotional 
coach.
She says her feelings are a driving force be-
hind many of her decisions, including her tin-
kering with lineups early in Southeastern Con-
ference play.
However, Butler notes her starters are never 
set in stone, and they are bound to change mul-
tiple times.
“Our season has many seasons in it,” But-
ler said. “There are a lot of different trends that present themselves where players are maybe playing great at one end of the floor and not the other.” 
Senior center Azania Stewart, who has strug-
gled of late, is a perfect example.
She is averaging just 2.8 points per contest in 
five conference games, including a scoreless ef-fort in a 49-44 loss to South Carolina.
As a result, Butler has started redshirt senior 
forward Ndidi Madu in place of Stewart in the last two games.
Madu has shown flashes of emerging as a re-
liable No. 2 option in the post next to junior for -
ward Jennifer George. Madu scored 11 points in a loss to Kentucky on Jan. 1 and nine during 
Sunday’s win against LSU.
“She’s just so athletic and her mid-range 
jumper is just perfect — nobody can block it,” 
Stewart said of Madu. Despite losing her starting spot for the time 
being, Stewart is comfortable in her current role as a reserve.
She has experience coming off the bench 
both at Florida and while playing overseas for her native Great Britain during the summer.
“I am a great force when I’m on the floor 
defensively-wise and offensively, I’m kind of struggling right now,” Stewart said. “I’m not 
that type of person to get mad. It’s coach’s deci-
sion.”
Another change in the starting lineup has 
come at the guard position with Deana Allen taking the place of fellow senior Lanita Bartley.
Redshirt senior guard Jordan Jones and 
Stewart both described Allen as a high-energy player, making her ideal to get the ball rolling in the early going.
However, Allen sees things a bit differently.“I kind of like coming off the bench better,” 
Allen said. “But if [Butler] needs me to start the game and give us that spark that I give us when I come off the bench, then I’ll do it.”
Allen said that starting makes her nervous, 
but that her preference for the bench stems from gaining a grasp of the game’s tempo before jumping right in.
“When I’m coming off the bench, I get to ob-
serve stuff more,” Allen said. “I get to see how 
the defense is playing and what the defense is 
giving us.”
Butler said the recent insertions of Madu and 
Allen into the starting lineup come from a need to aid the transition game in the early going.
Improved transition play will lead to                   Butler juggling starting lineup
Stewart sitting, 
Madu moving 
into larger role
RECRUITING
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
 
After his official visit last week-
end, Jeremi Powell is completely 
full.
He said he stuffed his face with 
food from Chili’s, salmon and “ev-erything — they were just deliver -
ing everything. I was full before I 
even got my food.”
Powell, a four-star linebacker 
from Pinellas Park, said he “had so 
much freakin’ fun” on his visit.
“I just can’t wait to be up there so 
it can be like that all the time and just play football, and not have to worry about everything I’m doing down here (in Pinellas Park),” he said. 
After a night in midtown and 
driving around Gainesville with his hosts, linebacker Michael Tay-lor and running back Mack Brown, Powell returned home on a college-experience high. Having to show up 
for work this week in the kitchen of 
a Seminole retirement home wasn’t nearly as fun as Gainesville, Powell said. 
“It’s real cool; being up there 
made me realize how bad I wanted to be there, knowing it would be easier for me. And then to come back home (to) high school, exams, 
drama — oh man, it sucked.”
Although his commitment status 
was already solid, Powell said the 
visit made him realize how strong it was. 
“Nothing in the world can change 
my mind,” he said.
Top recruits in town: This week-end, Florida will host two more undecided athletes: Tracy Howard, a five-star cornerback, and Stefon Diggs, a five-star wide receiver.
After suggesting Florida was out 
of the picture once former offensive coordinator Charlie Weis left, Diggs 
has seemingly re-considered. On 
Monday, Florida coaches, includ-ing head coach Will Muschamp, 
made the trek to 
the Diggs’ home in Olney , Md. 
The meeting is one of the last 
scheduled for Diggs with any coach-
es, and is notable because it is the 
first meeting between Diggs and new offensive coordinator Brent Pease. 
Diggs and his mother have vis-
ited Florida once each, separately . Diggs also visited Auburn last week-
end and Cal in December.
Howard, though, has two visits 
and decision candidates left: LSU 
and Florida. The Miramar corner -
back raised a stir in December when 
he did the Gator Chomp for some 
Florida coaches that came to see him play in a state title game. However, he remains steadfast that his deci-
sion will be made on Feb. 1, National 
Signing Day . 
With great cover skills and speed, 
the Miramar cornerback is a candi-date for immediate playing time in 
the Gators secondary.
Another visit: Vincent Valentine, 
a defensive tackle from Edwards-ville, Ill., also took an official visit 
last weekend.
Valentine has narrowed his re-
cruitment down to three schools: Il-
linois, Florida and Nebraska.
Powell said that although he 
didn’t interact much with Valentine, 
“every time I did see him, I asked him if he was a Gator yet.” Pow-
ell also said Valentine told him his 
mom wasn’t a huge fan of Florida due to the 900-mile distance between Gainesville and their Illinois home.
Nebraska has been the longtime 
favorite of the three-star athlete, and he has said he almost commit-ted when he took an official visit to Lincoln last month. But the Gators 
are still in the running after making 
a huge push for Valentine after the 
Notebook: Powell visits; Diggs, Howard coming this weekendSEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 16
SEE RECRUIT, PAGE 16Diggs
“I’m kind of struggling right now. 
I’m not that type of person to get 
mad. It’s coach’s decision.”
Azania Stewart
UF senior center
Poll Results
Are you happy with the hire of 
Brent Pease as UF’s offensive coordinator? 90% YES
10% NO
58 total votes WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator StaffSpring Sports Preview
Baseball:
Women’s Lacrosse: Women’s Golf:
Men’s Golf:Softball:
- Florida won the Southeastern Conference Tournament en route to a 53-19 record but couldn’t get past 
one overbearing garnet-and-black roadblock. UF went 1-5 against conference foe South Carolina, includ -
ing a two-game sweep to lose in the finals of the 2011 College World Series. 
- Friday, Feb. 17 at home against Cal State Fullerton.
- Karsten Whitson, So., RHP. (2011 stats: 8-1, 2.40 ERA, 28 BB, 92 K) As a freshman, Whitson tied 
RHP Hudson Randall for the team lead in starts last season at 19, but took the solo strikeout title even though his innings were often limited.- Mike Zunino, Jr., C.  (2011 stats: .371 BA, 98 H, 19 HR, 67 RBI)  In 2011, Zunino became the first Gator 
not named Matt LaPorta to be named SEC Player of the Year and was named an All-American.- Hudson Randall , Jr., RHP. (2011 stats: 11-3, 2.17 ERA, 13 BB, 73 K) No one does more with less on 
the mound than the redhead from Atlanta, who will be expected to set the tone in weekend series all season as the Friday night starter.What happened in 2011:
Season begins: 
Key players:
- The 2011 Florida Gators (56-13, 21-7) started 24-0 and broke 40 team records, catapulting the Gators 
into a fourth consecutive appearance at the Women’s College World Series. However, Florida fell to No. 1 seed, Arizona State, in two games in the Championship Series. - Friday, Feb. 10 against Long 
Island and Florida Gulf Coast in 
Tampa.
- Michelle Moultrie, Sr., CF. (2011 stats: 
.443 BA, 75 R 40 RBIs, and 31 SBs) The 
reigning WCWS Co-Most Outstanding Player is the lone senior and the Gators’ most potent offensive threat, breaking six offensive UF single-season records last year. - Hannah Rogers, So., RH. (2011 stats: 
36-8, 1.92 ERA, 221 K) Florida’s first freshman All-American since 2008 ranked third in the nation in wins and looks to anchor a young pitching staff that lacks experience.- Brittany Schutte, Jr., C.  (2011 stats: .326 average, 66 R, 69 RBI and 22 HR) UF’s single-season leader 
in home runs obviously has the power to change the game with one swing, but also locks down a .994 fielding percentage, which led the Gators in 2011.
What happened in 2011:Season begins: 
Key players:
- In just its second season as an NCAA program, Florida let the rest of the American Lacrosse Confer -
ence know it was here to stay. Despite a young roster that featured 16 sophomores, only one junior 
and no seniors, the UF lacrosse team followed its inaugural season with an impressive 16-4 year. After beating Stanford 13-11 in the first round of the NCAA Lacrosse Championship tournament, lost to Duke, 13-9, on May 21 in the quarterfinals.
- Saturday, Feb. 11 at North Carolina.
- Kitty Cullen, Jr. Attacker. (2011 stats: 86 points, 77 goals, 9 assists, 151 shots) Cullen’s 86 goals 
not only led the Gators but were good for second in the country in 2011. She was also a 2011 IWLCA 
First-Team All American.
- Sam Farrell, Jr. Defender. (2011 stats: 27 ground balls, 11 draw controls and 8 turnovers forced) 
Farrell anchored the Gators’ defense in 2011 and was an All-ALC First Team selection.
- Mikey Meagher, Jr. Goalkeeper. (2011 stats: 8.66 goals against average, 129 saves, .439 save 
percentage) Meagher will see the majority of time in net for the Gators in 2011 as she did in 2012, 
when she was selected to the All-ALC Second Team.What happened in 2011:
Season begins: 
Key players:
- March 22-24 at South Carolina. The Gators will have to wait just more than one month to get another 
crack at the team that kept them from their first national championship in school history last June.
Interesting angle:Important series:
- While Florida will return some of 
its key contributors on offense, no team in the country can say they return a weekend rotation quite like the one the Gators will. With Randall, Whitson and Brian John -
son all back on campus,  oppos -
ing teams will see three pitchers who combined to go 27-7 in 2011 when they face Florida in week -
end series. The mixture of styles and strengths could be lethal for UF’s steepest competition. 
− Bryan Holt- May 4-6 at Alabama. The two final SEC teams at the 2011 WCWS will end their respective regular seasons by facing one another in Alabama. Last season, the Gators reeled off four consecutive vic-tories over the Tide after a late-season loss including two blowouts in Oklahoma City. As the SEC’s fiercest softball rivalry continues, the Crimson Tide will surely be hungry for revenge.
Interesting angle:Important series:
- Florida comes into the season with the No. 1 recruiting class, bringing in seven true freshmen. How -
ever, coach Tim Walton must cope with the loss of the most successful seniors the softball program has ever seen, including the nation’s top softball athlete in 2011, Kelsey Bruder. The lone senior, Moultrie, must carry the youthful Gators through a brutal Southeastern Conference in order to have a chance of making yet another WCWS.
− Jonathan Czupryn
Interesting angle:Important game:
- Feb. 11 at North Carolina. Although North Carolina is not an ALC rival, it will provide Florida with 
a good challenge to open regular 
season play. The Tar Heels ad -
vanced to the semifinals of the NCAA Lacrosse Championship where they lost to Northwestern, 11-10.
- The transfer of Janine Hillier. An All-ALC Second Team selection at midfield following the 2011 season and the Gators’ fourth leading scorer with 40 points last year, Hillier trans -
ferred to Stony Brook in December. She was a key two-way player and the Gators will need to fill the void she left in the midfield.
– Josh Jurnovoy- Camilla Hedberg, Fr . Finished tied for third with a total tournament score of 208, a new record 
for UF women’s golf, in her first NCAA tournament.
- Evan Jensen, Sr. She wrapped up the fall season tied for 15th with a tournament total of 224 at the Betsy Rawls Invitational.
- Mia Piccio, Jr. Finishing 12th or better in three of the four tournaments so far this season, she 
shows that she is an asset to the team.
Key players:
Important Tournament:
- The Northrup Grumman Regional Challenge on Feb. 13-
15. Not only is this their first tournament of their spring 
schedule, but they are coming off a second place finish, so the pressure will be on for them to continue to prove their talent.
Key players:
-The Gary Koch Invitational on April 7-8. The Gators had a strong season last year with five wins. However, they finished off the regular  season with a weak performance. UF will need to prove that 
they can finish a season strong this year if they want to be viewed as a threat in the postseason.- Tommy Mou, Jr. Tied for seventh finish at The Bake at The 
Ocean Course was one of the three scores from UF in the top-10 that helped the team win its first tournament this season.- Tyler McCumber, Jr. Shot a tournament total of 211 and 
was able with place second individually at The Bake at The Ocean Course.- T.J. Vogel, Jr. He has yet to place higher than 15th individu-
ally at a tournament so far this season.
Interesting Angle:
- This year, UF’s team consists of six freshmen. Despite the high number of young players, theteam has done well so far this season. They will need to start relying more on these freshman in
the spring schedule in order to build a stronger team for next year.   – Katie AgostinImportant Tournament:decommitment of junior college transfer 
Visesio Salt. 
  McCalister reschedules: Three-star 
defensive end Alex McCalister was also slated to take an ofﬁ  cial visit to Florida this past weekend, but canceled for per-sonal reasons. 
  He also moved his commitment date 
from Tuesday to Jan. 23, after his re-scheduled visit to Gainesville.  Florida has been heating up the re-
cruiting process with McCalister after four-star defensive end Jordan Jenkins orally committed to Georgia on Jan. 9. McCalister would likely complement 
Ronald Powell at the Buck position if he 
ends up committing to Florida. 
McCalister is one of three Buck pros-
pects on campus this weekend, along with Dante Fowler Jr. and Bryan Cox Jr.
  Oral commitments are nonbinding until 
a national letter of intent is signed on or after National Signing Day on Feb. 1. 16, ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2012
THE RALLY
  Matt: After a dismal season, 
Florida fans everywhere 
are in emotional purgatory . 
But the dread and angst inspired by the worst 
year of Gator football in decades has started to 
give way to some new feelings — excitement, 
anticipation and hope. National Signing Day is approaching fast, and for college football 
followers everywhere, that means the next 
class of athletes is nearly ﬁ  nalized. 
  A new crop of players, a sense of rebirth; 
it’s an exhilarating time to be a fan. 
  But not so fast.   Schools like Alabama, LSU and Oklahoma 
are reloading with top-15 classes, and Florida is right there with the nation’s fourth-ranked class, but there’s a distinct difference. Those 
teams are already good, and the Gators aren’t. 
  So, this year, temper your expectations for 
greatness and remain stoic, as hard as that might be. Tim Tebow and Percy Harvin are not 
walking through that door. 
  The Will Muschamp turnaround train is in 
motion, but it’s nowhere near the station yet. 
    Bryan: The Boom Train may not be in the 
station just yet, but that doesn’t mean it’s too far down the tracks either. 
  Don’t let Uncle Matt’s grumbles get you 
down. There is plenty to get excited about in the recruiting class Muschamp and friends are currently putting their ﬁ  nal touches on. 
  Are Tebow or Harvin walking through the 
door? No, but an elite class of defensive play-ers is, and two of the nation’s most explosive 
wide receivers in Nelson Agholor and Stefon 
Diggs could be as well.
  For once, the Gators are building a team 
instead of stockpiles of wayward four- and ﬁ  ve-stars that Urban Meyer stacked up and dumped on the Gainesville Police Department in his waning years at UF.
  Muschamp is 
paying attention to needs more 
than rankings, 
and he is making the kind of team 
he has said he can 
win with: domi-nant on defense and more physical and tough 
on offense. 
  The result will be a group with more con-
tributors and fewer milk jug pictures in two years. 
  
  Matt: While Muschamp has certainly made 
headway on the arrest front, there’s not much evidence that he has the tools in place — either currently on the roster, or en route — to play 
the style he wants.
  For all the possibilities of playmakers like 
Diggs and Agholor coming to Gainesville, there’s also the possibility that those recruits 
don’t work out. Remember, Deonte Thomp-son was a four-star recruit and the nation’s 
No. 8 wide receiver in 2007. 
How did that work out again?
  UF’s offense was so bad this season that it’s 
clearly more than a receiver or two away from reaching even mediocre status. The offensive line is in tatters, the quarterback situation is 
sketchy at best and there isn’t a running back 
that can be trusted after Mr. Do Everything, Chris Rainey, graduated. (Ed. — Wait, Rainey 
actually graduated?)
Physical? Tough? Not next year, my 
friend. 
    Bryan: This class isn’t going to come in and 
win a national championship in 2012 with the current surround-ings. In other news, 
Will Muschamp 
does not care for fumbles and Ker-
win Bell was un-
der-qualiﬁ  ed to be Florida’s offensive 
coordinator. 
  But that doesn’t 
mean that excitement should be entirely ruled out. 
  D.J. Humphries and Jessamen Dunker can 
come in and immediately make the offensive line better at tackle and guard, respectively , 
and wide receiver Latroy Pittman and tight end Colin Thompson are more physical than 
anyone UF has at either position right now.
  Rankings are overrated, but you can’t com-
pletely rule out elite talent because others have fallen before it. Besides running back — where 
the Gators are slated to clean up in 2013 — the offense will be exponentially more equipped 
than it was in 2011. 
  People will want to see results this fall, and 
they will, but at the same time, they have to realize these guys aren’t getting kicked out af-
ter one year and will be in Gainesville to build something special over the next three or four 
seasons.
  Matt: Exponentially more equipped? What is 
that? A dick joke?
  Like a less-than-well-endowed man, Flor-
ida will be looking to other avenues to com-pensate for where they fall short. 
The Gators are going to be terrible on of-
fense, even if D.J. Humphries doesn’t prove to be the next Xavier Nixon. They’re going 
to have to rely on the defense, where you say Florida has much to be excited about with in-coming talents like Marcus Maye, Brian Poole and Jonathan Bullard.
  But apart from Bullard, Muschamp and 
Florida’s staff have not addressed the biggest need: girth up front. 
The Gators got pushed around on the line 
of scrimmage against good teams this season, and that will continue next season, even if they 
get some more talent on the line. The differ-
ence between an 18-year-old freshman and a 22-year-old senior is enormous. 
But if there’s one thing we can agree on, it’s 
patience. Point being: Temper those expecta-tions for a quick turnaround, because it’s not 
coming. 
  
  Bryan: Oh, Wattsy, always good for a me-
diocre genitalia joke and always bound to ﬁ  n-ish ﬁ  rst. 
There’s no doubt the defensive line has to 
get better to complement what’s behind it. Ever heard of Damien Jacobs? He’s the quick ﬁ  x up the middle at 290 pounds (and 20 years 
of age). Jacobs is a junior college transfer who 
will be expected to contribute in a big way im-mediately . 
Bullard allows Sharrif Floyd to move back 
inside where he’s more comfortable. Defen-sive tackle commits Dante Phillips and JaFar 
Mann are in the class, as well as 295-pound 
end Quinteze Williams. 
Did I mention there’s a good chance ﬁ  ve-
star defensive end Darius Hamilton could quickly be turning more and more toward Florida? 
If the offense is even vaguely mediocre in 
2012, this defense will easily be good enough to make the season worth watching. 
Get excited.     Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@alligator.org 
and Bryan Holt at bholt@alligator.org. 
 Should fans be excited by UF’s incoming recruiting class?
Bryan Holt
twitter: @bryan_holt
Matt Watts
twitter: @wattmatts
UF still in running for DEMore changes expected this year
increased layup attempts, which could provide 
a remedy to Florida’s recent offensive struggles in the ﬁ  rst half.
  “Deana and Ndidi are two of our more of-
fensive-minded players,” Butler said. “Both of 
them give us a little more speed … right from 
the beginning.”
  Jones does not see Butler ever committing to 
one starting lineup. It’s just not Butler’s style.
  “You really don’t know who’s going to 
start,” Jones said. “It’s something she’ll tell us on game day.”
  Butler said that the thinking process in re-
gards to her lineup decisions is very ﬂ  uid, ad-mitting that she will “absolutely” make some more changes before season’s end.
  After starting SEC play 2-3, with each game 
decided by six points or less, the Gators are 
showing they will do what-
ever it takes to make sure they have the right people on 
the ﬂ  oor at the right time.
  “She’s just seeing what’s 
going to work,” Allen said. 
“That way , she can put 
those ﬁ  ve that she knows 
is going to grind it out for her towards the end of the 
game.”
  Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@alligator.
org. W-HOOPS , from page 14
Butler
RECRUIT , from page 14