VOLUME 106 ISSUE 121 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Switching utility providers may not be possible for city
County commissioners wanted to switch from GRU, pg 5.  
New smartphone application gaining popularity
Draw Something was released in February, pg 8. Florida fell 
Tuesday to 
top-seeded Baylor 
in the second round 
of the NCAA 
Tournament. 
See story, page 13. 
CLARE LENNON
and SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Staff Writers
At Tuesday’s Senate meeting, Ka-
tie Waldman was accused of unethi-cal behavior and recited a prepared defense. She took her new ofﬁ  ce min-utes later to a round of applause.
Waldman will chair Student Sen-
ate’s Allocations Committee, which oversees money given to Student Government-funded student organi-zations.
Waldman got the job after each 
senator voiced a yes or no vote. She was met with a round of applause from her Unite Party peers when she was approved 56-21.
Several senators drew attention to 
the fact that Waldman was with for-mer Senate President Pro Tempore Jason Tiemeier when he threw away several hundred copies of The Inde-pendent Florida Alligator.
The pair were campaigning to-
gether for the Unite Party . Tiemeier named Waldman as his companion in a March 12 Alligator guest column.
Students Party Sen. Morgan Voll-rath asked Waldman why she didn’t come forward about Tiemeier’s role, which he and Unite Party ofﬁ  cials originally denied.
“Contrary to any implication, I 
didn’t do it,” she said. “I counseled Ja-son not to do it. He agreed. I thought I acted very responsibly.”
She repeated that as V ollrath and 
Minority Leader Sen. Carly Wilson asked her about her involvement and why she didn’t speak up.
After the meet-
ing, Waldman said she had no com-ment on why she remained silent about the inci-dent. She said she kept repeating the statement because 
it “best sums up the event.”
Waldman has been a member of 
the Rules and Ethics and Allocations committees for about a year.
Unite Party senators asked Wald-
man only about her Senate experi-ence. Waldman joined the Allocations Committee in May 2011. It handles 
Journalist gives insight into Florida 
legislature
He discussed Gov. Scott and tensions in the 
legislature, pg. 3. 
85/61
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 13� THE CENTER MAY OPEN JULY 1.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
A former hotel, once a sanctuary for 
travelers, may soon be a safe haven for 
people seeking treatment for drug and 
alcohol abuse.
UF&Shands plans to turn a vacant 
Residence Inn, located at 4001 SW 13th 
Street near Williston Road, into a drug and alcohol abuse treatment center. It is expected to attract patients from across the nation and bring more jobs to the county.
The project will cost UF&Shands be-
tween $3 million and $4 million, which includes the purchase of the building and renovations.
If the Alachua County Commission allows for the rezoning of the property , UF&Shands will turn the building into a long-term living treatment center that will house up to 120 people.
If the county rezones the property for 
medical facilities within the next month, the center will open on July 1.
A public hearing during a meeting of 
the Alachua County Planning Commis-sion about the rezoning will be held at 6 p.m. today in Room 209 of the Alachua County Administration Building.
UF ofﬁ  cials said the new center is 
expected to be similar to the world-re-nowned Betty Ford Treatment Center in California, which has been home to drug- and alcohol-addicted celebrities such as Lindsay Lohan and Johnny Cash.
The new facility will create up to 18 
jobs.New rehab center would 
draw national patients
SEE REHAB, PAGE 4ON CAMPUS
MICHAEL SCOTT DAVIDSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
University researchers and Gainesville 
businesses have united to get residents 
talking about science.
About 60 people ﬁ  lled a Leonardo’s 706 
dining room Tuesday evening for a discus-sion on Florida archaeological discoveries. The talk was the fourth Science Cafe hosted 
by the Florida Museum of Natural History.
Museum-hosted community talks have 
been gaining popularity nationwide, com-
bining informal discussions about science with the relaxing atmosphere of restaurants 
and pubs, said Leeann Bright, marketing 
and public relations coordinator for the Florida Museum of Natural History.
Two Gainesville restaurants and a hand-
ful of researchers at UF have donated their restaurant space and expertise for the event. The donations advance the museum’s goal of bringing the community together to dis-cuss historical and academic topics.
The program’s purpose isn’t to get peo-
ple in the door but to get audience mem-bers talking about what they learned over 
the course of the presentation and discus-
sion, said Amanda Harvey, an education assistant at the museum.
“Sometimes a lot of people put numbers 
as a way to measure success,” she said, “but I really think it’s the level of engagement of participants.”
Numbers haven’t been a problem for 
the Science Cafes either. The museum over-
booked Leonardo’s 706 for its presentation 
in January and again Tuesday.Museum-hosted science 
talks a big draw in GainesvilleJohn McLaughlin / Alligator
Newly elected allocations chairwoman Sen. Katie Waldman sits with Unite Party spokeswoman Sen. 
Christina Bonarrigo in the Student Senate meeting Tuesday night.
Student Senate approves all committee nominations
SEE MUSEUM, PAGE 4“Sometimes a lot of people put 
numbers as a way to measure suc-
cess, but I really think it’s the level 
of engagement of participants.”
Amanda Harvey
education assistant at the museumSEE SENATE, PAGE 4Tiemeier
News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 121 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Marissa Prieto, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
                                                                   Elesa P aschke, Heather Pollard, 
  Raven Pritchett, David Williams, 
  Nika Zecevic
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerWhat’s happening?
Mind, Body and Food Fair
Today, noon to 3 p.m.
Plaza of the Americas
In celebration of Women’s History Month, Women’s Affairs Cabinet and the 
Women’s Student Association 
will host a tabling fair on Plaza 
of the Americas. The event will feature about 15 campus orga-nizations with activities and 
games for participants. Food 
will be provided.
Collaborating with Strangers 
workshop
Today, 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Library West, third floor 
InfoCommonsUnmask creative potential, 
find quick ways to make long-
term connections and turn 
small talk into big ideas. The 
workshop connects students and faculty on campus during 
three-minute speed meetings. 
The workshop is sponsored 
by the George A. Smathers 
Libraries. Information and reg-istration can be found at www.
uflib.ufl.edu/pio/CoLAB/
home.html
Institute of Black Culture pres-
ents “Bronx Princess”
Today, 6 p.m.
Institute of Black Culture
The Institute of Black Culture will show the documentary “Bronx Princess,” which de-tails 17-year-old Rocky’s jour -
ney as she leaves her mother in New York City to reunite with her father, a chief in Ghana, West Africa. If you have any questions regarding the film or the IBCinema series, contact Dr. Johnson at johnj@multicul-tural.ufl.edu.
Radical About Christ Bible 
StudyToday, 6:15 p.m.Matherly 151Join Radical About Christ in Summer Job and Internship Fair
Thursday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Reitz Union ColonnadeEmployers in attendance will represent the city of Gainesville, the state of Florida and the rest of the nation of-fering part-time and full-time 
summer jobs and internships. 
Participants will have oppor -
tunities to deliver resumes, ask questions and interact with employers. Open to UF students and alumni only. For more information, visit www.
crc.ufl.edu/summerjob.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-
missions after above events. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CLaRiFiC atiOn
In Tuesday’s edition of the 
Alligator, it was reported that bookshelves at Books Inc. were being sold for $200. Double-sided bookshelves are being sold for $200 and single-sided bookshelves are being sold for $100.Bible study with the topic “He say! She say! But what does GOD say?”
Messiah’s Mansion
Today to SaturdayNorth LawnMessiah’s Mansion, a life-size reconstruction of the Hebrew wilderness taber -
nacle, will be on the North Lawn through Saturday. Visitors can engage in hands-on, guided tours of the sanctuary and experience how the hope of the ancient Semitic people transcends all through Messianic fulfill-ment. Tour dates and hours are Sundays and week-days, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Saturdays, 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.
The Art of Google Books
Today to April 3
Reitz Union, second floor 
galleryMonday to Thursday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.Friday to Sunday, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Reception March 22, 7 p.m. 
to 9 p.m.The Art of Google Books by Krissy Wilson is an image curation blog that values ad-versaria chronicled in book digitization. The aim of the project is twofold: to rec-ognize book digitization as 
re-photography and to pro-
mote the signs of use that ac-company these texts as wor -
thy of study and exhibition. For more information, visit www.theartofgooglebooks.tumblr.com/exhibit.PARTLY
CLOUDY
84/60THUNDER
STORMS
85/61PARTLY
CLOUDY
86/60THUNDER
STORMS
81/60PARTLY
CLOUDY
83/56SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
KRISTEN MORRELL
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tension in the Florida Legislature and the ineffective 
dominance of the Republican Party are creating difficulties 
in Tallahassee, political journalist Steve Bousquet said Tues-day.
Bousquet, who works for the Tampa Bay Times and has 
covered state government for more than two decades, pro-vided insight about the 2012 Florida legislative session for a crowd of about 40 people at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service.
He also talked about his many encounters with Gov. Rick 
Scott, the sixth Florida governor Bousquet has covered dur -
ing his career.
He attributed Scott’s low popularity to the fact that he’s 
not making a personal connection with Floridians. Bousquet 
said it’s very important for people to feel they know the gov-
ernor in a state as big as Florida.
Bousquet also suggested that Scott is out of touch with the 
needs of Floridians, particularly with regard to the education 
system.
“You can run as an outsider,” Bosquet said, “but you can’t 
govern the state as an outsider.”
Bousquet also talked about the many projects discussed 
by the legislature at the session that Scott may veto. The local 
projects, some feel, should be paid for with local taxes.
“Your Alachua County tax dollars could pay for a regatta 
in Sarasota,” he said.
Bousquet said every governor battles with the legislature, 
even if the majority of congressmen are from his same party.
Very few students showed up to Bousquet’s talk, contrary 
to predictions they would appear and raise the debate about possible tuition increases.Emma K. Humphries, a civic scholar at the Bob Graham 
Center, said that is exactly why she believes the legislature could get away with raising tuition and decreasing funding for higher education.
“They aren’t being held accountable to students,” Humphries said. “ They don’t have to answer to students because students aren’t the ones writing to them or showing up to vote.”
She encourages students to be more active in issues so 
they can have a bigger voice in Tallahassee.
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
Political journalist Steve Bousquet listens to questions from audience members on Tuesday at the Bob Graham 
Center for Public Service.
on CAmpuS
Veteran political journalist gives insight into Florida legislature
“You can run as an outsider, but you can’t 
govern the state as an outsider.”
Steve Bousquet
political journalistAbout 60 people attended Febru-
ary’s talk.
“We already have some RSVPs for 
the next one,” Harvey said.
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History hosted its first Science Cafe 
in October. 
About 125 people attended a dis-
cussion on ocean sustainability and seafood at the museum.
Four Science Cafe nights were 
planned for this semester after the 
large turnout in fall. 
The monthly discussions will 
switch between Leonardo’s 706 and 
The Warehouse Restaurant and 
Lounge.
Participants are encouraged to 
wear casual clothing and bring ques-
tions to ask the presenter. 
The researchers leading the event 
ask audience members to guide con-versation through group discussion and Q&A sessions, Bright said.
Both restaurants provide short-
ened menus to audience members, 
but guests aren’t required to buy a 
meal.
Neither restaurant has charged the 
museum for the use of their build-ings.
“We’re happy to donate the room 
and time,” said Aaron Newman, manager of Leonardo’s 706. “We’re getting some customers we wouldn’t 
usually get.”
The museum doesn’t spend money 
on discussion leaders for the Science 
Cafes, either.
The next Science Cafe is scheduled 
for April 17 from 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. at The Warehouse Restaurant and Lounge. 
The discussion will be “Giant 
Reptiles and Shrinking Mammals: 
How Climate Change Affects Life on 
Earth.”4, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
UF&Shands plans to turn a vacant Residence Inn, located at 4001 SW 13th St., into a drug- and alcohol- 
abuse treatment center. The project will cost UF&Shands between $3 million and $4 million and will also treat eating disorders.
Center meant to make 
recovery better experience
The center will be an exten-
sion of services provided by the 
UF&Shands Florida Recovery Cen-
ter on Northwest 39th Avenue. Some doctors from the center will move their offices to the new 13th Street location to treat patients there, said Scott Teitelbaum, medical director of the center.
Its drug and alcohol abuse treat-
ment programs already have a repu-tation for attracting patients from 
around the nation, many of whom 
are health professionals seeking sub-stance abuse treatment, Teitelbaum said. In the 39th Avenue location, patients are treated at the site but live in apartments throughout the community.
Teitelbaum said that can make 
the recovery process more difficult.
“When patients live in the com-
munity, they are faced with distrac-tions,” he said. “This will provide them with a recovery campus and a much nicer experience.”
The buildings, which will look 
more like a cluster of brick cottages than a hotel, will house apartments for those trying to recover from drug 
abuse, alcohol abuse and eating dis-
orders. It will also include offices for 
therapists, addiction psychiatrists 
and addiction medicine physicians.
The former hotel sits one block 
from Meridian Behavioral Health-care Inc., a clinic that also offers treatment for substance abuse.
In December, Meridian pur -
chased the vacant Gator Lodge, lo-
cated next door, to open a residential 
rehabilitation facility.“It seems like they are trying to 
make this a treatment area,” said Roy Alford Jr., owner of nearby Hair Wonders Cutting Edge Barbershop.
His business is across the street 
from both establishments on the corner of Southwest 13th Street and Williston Road.
Though it recognizes the prox-
imity of the two facilities, it was not the county’s decision to put these facilities in the same area, said Jerry Brewington, senior planner at the Alachua County Growth Manage-ment Department.
“They needed a residential ac-
commodation, so what better place for them to accommodate their pa-tients than a nearby hotel or motel?” 
Brewington said.
Commercial real estate agent 
Erig Ligman said the purchase of 
the site by a notable health center like UF&Shands will help develop an area that is known for being run-down.
Within a half-mile radius of the 
former Residence Inn are seven 
“For Lease” and “For Sale” signs in 
the windows of bare spaces and on grassy tracts of land.
“Hopefully this will bring us 
business,” said barbershop owner Alford. “We need it. This area needs 
it.”
Contact Adrianna Paidas at apai-
das@alligator.org.REHAB , from page 1
MUSEUM , from page 1About 60 attended February’s 
talk, next event to be April 17Unite senators supported Waldman
about $90,000 a year.
Sen. Lauren Verno spoke about Waldman’s 
experience in setting up the extended library 
hours and as co-chairwoman of a temporary Election Codes Revision Committee.
Unite Party Sen. Cayman Weimer said sen-
ators would be ridiculous to make a decision based on one mistake. He later said that he had no comment on his endorsement of Waldman.
Unite Party spokeswoman Sen. Christina 
Bonarrigo said it is not a citizen’s duty to stop a criminal action and that the situation had noth-ing to do with Waldman’s nomination.
Bonarrigo left her seat to whisper to several 
senators throughout the meeting. She said after the meeting that the senators had procedure questions.
She also whispered to Senate President 
Aundre Price, a member of the Unite Party , and at one point during the meeting tried to instruct him on procedure.
Student Senate voted to approve all its rec-
ommended committee chairs and members at the meeting.
Three new committee chairs were elected: 
Verno will chair the Rules and Ethics Commit-tee, Weimer will chair the Judiciary Committee and Waldman will chair the Allocations Com-mittee.Bonarrigo said after the meeting that she 
did not think Waldman’s silence was unethical. Waldman said nothing while party officials, including Bonarrigo, denied the accusations against Tiemeier and accused the Alligator of making the story up.
“She told Jason Tiemeier not to do it,” Bonar -
rigo said. “And that’s all she was required to do.”
Contact Clare Lennon at clennon@alligator.org 
and Samantha Shavell at sshavell@alligator.org.
SENATE , from page 1
RELEVANT COMMITTEES
§ Replacement and Agenda Committee
 Recommends committee seats and re -
placement senators and assembles agenda
 Chairman: Logan Harrison, Unite Party
§ Allocations Committee
 Oversees money for SG-funded organiza -
tions and transfer of reserve funds
 Chairwoman: Katie Waldman, Unite Party
§ Rules and Ethics Committee
 Reviews the absences of senators, 
enforces requirements, collects voting 
records and investigates the conduct of any senators when a senator files a petition for a senator’s expulsion
 Chairwoman: Lauren Verno, Unite PartyAlligator Staff“This will provide them 
with a recovery campus and 
a much nicer experience.”
Scott Teitelbaum
medical director of the center WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
� THE MAN WAS ARRESTED BY 
GPD’S DOMESTIC VIOLENCE UNIT MONDAY AFTERNOON.
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
During an argument with his ex-girl-
friend, a Gainesville man shattered the 
woman’s car window, police said. Hours 
later, he tried to break into her house.
Gainesville Police arrested Christo-
pher C. White, 29, of 2006 NW 55th Ave., 
Monday on charges of criminal mischief, 
burglary and stalking. He did not return 
a message from the Alligator seeking comment.
Candice N. Moberly, 30, broke up 
with White on Saturday, ending a rela-
tionship that lasted more than a year. 
When Moberly left her house Saturday night, White was waiting for her, accord-ing to an arrest report.
Moberly drove to the Miller Ale 
House, located at 3950 SW Archer Road. White followed. After parking, Moberly stayed in her car with the door locked, but White pulled one of the car’s door 
handles until it broke.
Moberly lowered her window slight-
ly so the two could talk. White wanted 
the window lowered more, so he tried to 
push it down. Instead, he shattered it, ac-
cording to police.When Moberly threatened to call po-
lice, White drove away in his Jeep Lib-erty. Det. Bruce Ferris called White, but he would not answer. Ferris showed up at White’s house, but he wasn’t home.
From 2 a.m. to 4 a.m. Sunday, White 
called Moberly 27 times. When she didn’t answer his calls, White went to her house, located at 2701 NW 23rd Blvd. He tried 
to sneak in through her bedroom win-
dow, but Moberly saw him. He then ran to her back door, according to police.
White demanded Moberly talk to him. 
Moberly cracked open her back door, 
and White pushed his way in. Moberly 
told police White believed another man was staying with her. He searched the entire house, looking for a fight. Even-
tually, Moberly pushed White out the 
door, GPD Sgt. Joe Raulerson said. She then called 911.
Members of the GPD Domestic Vio-
lence Unit drove to White’s house Mon-
day afternoon and arrested him when he 
arrived at about 4:30 p.m.
White was charged with two counts 
of battery in November, according to po-
lice, but entered into an agreement with 
the State Attorney’s Office in reference to those charges pardoning him as long as he fulfilled certain requirements. Mon-day’s arrest violates White’s part of that 
agreement.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.Man charged with shattering car 
window, breaking in to ex’s house
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Writer
The Alachua County Commission’s 
hopes to switch from Gainesville Regional 
Utilities to another utility provider got a reality check from County Attorney Da-vid Wagner.
In a memo dated March 14, Wagner 
told the commission that staying with the city utility provider may be the best op-tion, even though utility bills for county-owned buildings will jump due to a plan to receive energy from a new wood-burn-ing power plant.
“In my opinion, while it is legally pos-
sible to solicit proposals for electric utility 
services from another provider,” Wagner 
wrote, “it is not certain that such solicita-tion would be successful.”
The commission voted unanimously in 
February to research the cost of switching to another energy supplier after learning that GRU’s new biomass plant would in-crease the county’s bill.
Charlie Jackson, Alachua County facili-
ties manager, told commissioners in Feb-ruary that GRU’s biomass contract would cause the county’s utility bill to rise by about $200,000 a year starting in 2014, up from the current $3 million.
County Commissioner Lee Pinkoson 
told the Alligator in February that he ana-lyzed electricity costs in other counties and said companies such as Progress En-ergy, which provides most of UF’s energy, and Clay Electric Co-op would be possible options.
Katie Weitekamp, GRU spokeswoman, 
said new costs would have come anyway, regardless of fuel type.“Any new generation will bring new 
costs,” she said, “whether it’s biomass, wind or solar.”
The commission asked Wagner for his 
legal opinion on the switch. He found some obstacles.
First, GRU would have to agree to 
change its service area remove county-owned facilities from the designated area. GRU is allowed to block other utility com-
panies from accessing its service area or 
charge a fee for using its utility lines.
The Florida Public Service Commis-
sion, which the Florida legislature created 
to facilitate utility ser -
vices, would also have to approve the changes to make sure that the chosen utility provider’s 
area of service would 
include county-owned 
buildings.
The Public Service 
Commission would only 
be able to approve the changes if they did not affect the quality of the utilities pro-vided, among other stipulations.
Despite the county’s wish to switch 
providers, Weitekamp said the new bio-mass plant would help the county long-term.
She said the company that is building 
the biomass plant is a private business, so they would be required to pay taxes to the county that will offset the new costs.
For citizens, Weitekamp said GRU has 
programs to help people use less energy, 
which she said will help keep their energy 
bills affordable.
Contact Shelby Webb at swebb@alligator.
org.Switching utility providers 
may not be possible for city
Wagner
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Do you play Draw Something?
120 TOTAL VOTES48% YES
52% NOMonday’s question: Do you ride the bus 
more than you drive?
Marketplace of Ideas
High school students 
deserve free speech
We often experience conflict between what laws or legal 
precedents dictate and what we know to be right and wrong.
Historically, the Supreme Court — in the 1988 case Hazel-
wood v. Kuhlmeier, for instance — has ruled that high school 
publications deserve less First Amendment protection than oth-
er publications — even college newspapers.
In the Hazelwood case, the court ruled that the principal of 
Hazelwood East High School could constitutionally censor ar -
ticles within the school newspaper because the paper was pub-lished for school credit and did not constitute a “forum for pub-lic expression.”
For someone committed to freedom of speech, this ruling 
from the court allowing school administrators to censor student 
speech is disturbing, to say the least.
In the decision, the court also opined that school officials 
could censor speech “inconsistent with ‘the shared values of a 
civilized social order.’”
The vagueness this constitutional test presents also has wor -
risome repercussions. How does one define these “shared val-ues”? Should not the First Amendment also protect unshared values, or the opinions of the minority? Is not the “civilized so-cial order” of the U.S. one of debate and dissenting opinions?
Regardless, legal precedent is against the free-speech inter -
ests of high school students, and the consequences of this condi-tion can still be seen.
In Lenoir City, Tenn., school officials recently banned a col-
umn by Krystal Meyers, entitled “No Rights: The Life of an Atheist.”
According to the Knoxville News Sentinel, Meyers is “an 
atheist in a predominantly Christian Student Body.” Meyers wrote her opinion piece in response to what she felt represented 
unfair and unconstitutional religious practices by teachers and 
school officials in her community.
Her arguments, in particular that one of her teachers often 
uses Bible verses as the “Quote of the Day,” carry some merit. But to Lenoir City school officials, her column was a threat that had “the potential for disruption in the school,” according to the News Sentinel.
So, by using their constitutionally valid remedies, school of-
ficials banned the school paper from running the column.
This is where the law and right versus wrong are at odds. 
To allow school officials to trump speech with which they do not agree gives government officials more power than they may realize.
While administrators might cite disruption as a possible con-
sequence of running Meyers’ column, they should realize the educational repercussions of their actions. 
From this, students learn that unpopular ideas, namely those 
of individuals who belong to minority political and religious 
groups, do not deserve a place in the public debate.
They learn that the totalitarian notion of “censorship in the 
name of keeping public order” is acceptable. This is not how we 
should mold the minds of our future.Cheaters lessen value of all UF degrees
Repeat after me: “We, the members of the University 
of Florida community , pledge to hold ourselves and our peers to the highest standards of honesty and in-
tegrity.”
If you’re a member of the UF Student Body, that pledge 
should be part of who you are by now.
That is the Honor Pledge of the Honor Code, the funda-
mental commitment to academic integrity that aligns our vi-sions of honor as academics.
According to a professor, that pledge was “irrefutably” 
violated by a troubling amount of UF students on an exam this semester. To be exact, the College of Engineering caught 
97 students cheating in CGS2531, which is a required course 
for many degrees at UF.
Upon hearing about this blatant violation of academic 
honesty, even a moderate academic would consider the pen-alty of expulsion for these students.
But these students will not be expelled. Nor will they 
be referred to the Dean of Students or the Student Conduct 
Committee if they admit to cheating. As long as they admit 
to cheating, they will not even fail the course.
I can accept that students will sometimes cheat. What I 
cannot accept is administrators showing indifference and le-niency to irrefutable cheating.
We do not want cheaters to be part of our academic com-
munity . Cheaters hurt everyone. They put honest students at a disadvantage. Their cheating encourages other students to cheat. Moreover, widespread cheating undermines the aca-demic integrity of the entire university, which devalues all 
degrees bearing the university’s name.
It’s a shame that UF administrators show such indiffer -
ence to blatant cheating, but the UF Code of Conduct allows 
this inadequate punishment. It states that this punishment is acceptable as long as the faculty member contacts the Dean of Students to ensure that “no circumstances require the im-position of a sanction other than a reduced or failing grade, an educational requirement specified in University of Florida 
Regulation 4.047 and/or a reprimand.”Are reduced grades or a rep-
rimand acceptable penalties for 
cheating? No. Every one of these students should be referred to the 
Dean of Students and the Student 
Conduct Committee, and the con-victed cheaters should be penal-ized accordingly. It doesn’t mat-ter how much time or how many resources it takes. What is more 
important for the university to invest in than the academic merit of its students?
This widespread act of cheating and the response of UF 
administrators indicate that something is seriously wrong with the value we place in the Honor Code.
Academic achievement is something that most students 
take pride in. Being a successful academic gives you access to an exclusive club. Being a successful academic shows that you used the key factors of success — discipline, focus, deter -
mination and ambition — to realize knowledge that the mass of humanity never had the opportunity to.
But widespread cheating and leniency toward cheating 
devalue what should be the honorable achievement of com-pleting a university education.
Give these students one more chance, but do so only after 
each one demonstrates he or she realizes the gravity of cheat-ing in academia. Show some semblance of care for the Honor Code.
Once these students are dealt with, our university has 
a more serious problem at hand. It is abundantly clear that cheating is a problem in academia.
Platitudes tend to be avoided in academia, but here’s one 
we should remember: Actions speak louder than words. The actions of academic administrators should match their pledges. If cheating has no place in academia, then show it by taking serious action against cheaters.
Abdul Zalikha is a biology and English junior at UF. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Abdul Zalikha
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Like many Alligator readers, I have been bar -
raged with fliers, posters and Facebook posts 
asking me to protest the planned 15-percent tu-
ition increase. Unlike the oft-cited “everyone” who opposes tuition hikes, I am frustrated by the debate.
Travis Hornsby’s March 19 column, “Tuition in-
creases won’t do UF any favors” was the straw that broke the camel’s back.
In Hornsby’s column, he argued against the tu-
ition increase by reporting that scholarships for UF students have decreased markedly and rightly noted that the absurd cost of attendance at other schools does not justify tuition increases here.
He pointed out that raising tuition to the national 
average is inappropriate considering Gainesville’s cost of living.
Although I agree with Hornsby’s position on 
scholarships, it is a separate issue.
While he was correct on the issue of  the cost of 
living, his counterargument stated nothing about raising it in general.
Allow a short, hypothetical digression.If I asked you for $100 now, and in return I would 
increase your salary when you graduate by $100,000, would you accept my offer?
I’m going to go ahead and assume you said yes.Suppose instead I asked for $1,600 and in return 
offered an expected salary increase of $12,300.
My guess is that you would take that deal, too.The last offer wasn’t quite hypothetical.In-state tuition at Georgia Tech is $7,282 per year, about $1,600 more than UF’s $5,700 per year.
According to PayScale.com, 
the median starting salary at 
Georgia Tech is an impressive $57,500 per year — 
$12,300 more than UF’s $45,300.
Increased tuition isn’t just money out of your 
pocket. There is a positive return to the marginal
tuition dollar in the form of better professors, fa-
cilities and graduate students, all of which are key to 
a university’s success.
A tuition increase is, at its core, an investment de-
cision that requires quantitative analysis.
Of course, increasing tuition by $1,600 won’t mag-
ically turn us into Georgia Tech, nor will it assure a $12,300 increase in starting salary.
However, anyone who says tuition should (or 
should not) be increased without presenting a model of the costs and benefits is, frankly, being disingenu-ous.
Does the planned increase make sense? I don’t 
know.
What I do know is that I have yet to be presented 
with any real evidence, or any real argument for that matter, by either side.
I would like to think that any student smart 
enough to be accepted to this university is also smart enough to understand the complexities of the issue and honest enough to not protest without an argu-ment.
James Gibson is a math and statistics major at UF.Tuition increases could pay offGuest columnSince 1953, when the 
U.S. covertly overthrew democratically elected 
Iranian President Moham-mad Mossadegh, relations between the U.S. and Iran can be described as troubling, to 
say the least.
In recent years, there has 
been much conjecture as to 
whether Iran is enriching ura-nium for peaceful purposes.
Numerous media outlets 
proposed that the Iranian au-thorities have harmful inten-tions, while American intelli-
gence agencies argued to the 
contrary.
The Ayatollah Khamenei 
denounced the use of nuclear weapons in a press confer -
ence last month.
This would be a great 
statement in the face of in-ternational pressure, if only 
the ayatollah were a credible 
source.
Inspectors from the In-
ternational Atomic Energy Agency released a report last month that declared that Iran 
had more than once refused 
inspectors entry to a military site known as Parchin.
The ayatollah, who direct-
ly oversees foreign policy, 
along with President Ah-
madinejad, has a specific dis-dain for Israel.
The president seeks to 
“wipe Zionism off the pages of history.”
Perhaps by saying this he 
hopes to justify Iran’s fund-ing of Hezbollah, a militant 
Islamic group committed to 
destroying the state of Israel.
This militant group, along 
with right-wing Israeli offi-
cials, is one of the obstacles 
standing in the way of a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine.
An armed nuclear Iran 
could only mean catastrophe in the Middle East.
As the sectarian rivalry 
between Saudi Arabia and Iran intensified last October, two Iranians were arrested for plotting to kill the Saudi 
ambassador to the U.S.
One of the men was linked 
to the Qods force, an opera-
tional division of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard.
The religious right in Iran 
has also been responsible for the murder of Jew-
ish com-
munity organizers in Argen-
tina, the issuing of a religious fatwa calling for the death of 
a British novelist and assassi-
nation of Kurdish opposition leaders in Berlin.
This regime sunk its theo-
cratic claws into the heart 
of a young, educated and 
democratic society by enforc-ing a strict interpretation of Islamic law.
This  allowed the govern-
ment to persecute religious minorities and treat homo-sexuality as a crime.
The true victims of this 
situation are the Iranian peo-ple. 
They live under a brutal 
theocratic regime and are 
now being starved by eco-
nomic sanctions put in place by some of the world’s super -
powers.
It’s utterly embarrassing 
that some of those among us 
support the clerical authori-
ties’ defiance of international law as a way of promoting their own anti-American im-perialism agenda.
 Remember that in 2009 
many Irannian citizens gave their lives to challenge the legitimacy of their govern-
ment.
While war between Is-
rael and Iran is undesirable, 
the harsh reality is that Iran hasn’t shown the internation-
al community that it has the 
moral responsibility to pur -
sue a nuclear program.
There is no doubt that the 
intentions of the Iranian peo-ple are honest and just.
But the representative 
government of Iran has dis-
played its willingness to 
trample on democracy and human rights time and time again.
We only have one planet, 
so the international commu-nity must agree that arming a theocratic regime with nucle-
ar power that can annihilate 
cities within minutes is an ex-periment not worth running.
Richard Vieira is a po-
litical science junior and Jikky 
Thankachan is a microbiology 
freshman at UF.Iranian government 
should not be trusted with power of having 
nuclear weaponsGuest column
Richard Vieira
Speaking Out
James Gibson
Speaking OutStudents should come to Student Senate meetings
As each Tuesday night comes and goes, quorum is 
barely established, with 46 senators and empty seats 
scattered throughout Room 282 of the Reitz Union where the Student Senate meets.
The only observers who come to watch week in and 
week out are the Alligator and Gainesville Sun reporters and the occasional club representative, who announces at the beginning of the meeting about an upcoming event then leave.
Senate is where the roughly $16.7 million that we 
contribute to SG from our tuition is spent. Speaking of tuition, consider this: SG stands between UF students, our money and the Board of Trustees on tuition changes. Within the chambers, everything from new bike racks to positions on state and federal policies are voted on each week.
Even with all of this power and responsibility, Sen-
ate is rarely in the public eye and goes predominantly unchecked.
This contributes to student apathy, which perpetu-
ates a government that lacks accountability and allows SG to be controlled by narrow interests.
Senate and all committee meetings are open to the 
public. If you are genuinely interested but cannot make it to Senate at 7:30 p.m. Tuesdays in Reitz room 282, I encourage you to email your senators with ideas for leg-islation, opinions about how they should vote on certain bills or just to introduce yourself.
You can find the Senate roster with email addresses, 
the agenda and voting records on the UF Student Gov-ernment website.
It is up to the Student Body to keep its senators ac-
countable.
I challenge all UF students to visit at least one Senate 
meeting. After all, they were elected to represent you.
Jenna Goldman
Vice President, Students PartyLetter to the Editor8, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
Screenshot pulled from Draw Something
A user guesses the word “computer” from a drawing in the 
app Draw Something, which has been downloaded about 35 million times from the iTunes Store.
� FREE AND PAID VERSIONS OF 
THE GAME ARE AVAILABLE.
CHRIS ALCANTARA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The game is simple. You’re given a 
word, an empty canvas and a partner. 
There are no time limits or penalties. It’s just you and your inner Picasso.
Draw Something is the latest game 
to take the iPhone and Android appli-cation world by storm.
With about 35 million downloads, 
the game has surpassed other mobile apps, including Words With Friends and Angry Birds, according to the iTunes Store.
OMGPOP Inc., a New York-based 
social gaming company, began devel-
oping the game in September.
Joseph Alminawi, OMGPOP com-
munity director, said the company’s 
development team used player feed-back from Draw My Thing, a similar online drawing game, as a foundation to create Draw Something.
Alminawi did not comment on the 
game’s development costs.
On Feb. 16, the company officially 
released two versions of the game: a 99-cent version and a free version, which is supported by advertise-ments.
Alminawi said word-of-mouth and 
the game’s ability to spark creativity helped increase its popularity in the past month.
“No one has ever really created this 
outlet for expression,” he said. “It’s less about the game and more about communication.”
Alminawi said the company works 
to keep players interested in the game by using a word bank relevant to ev-eryday life.
“We never want the experience to 
be stale,” he said.
Celebrity names, including NBA 
star Jeremy Lin, actor Tom Hanks and singer-songwriter Lady Gaga have ap-peared as drawing subjects.
Alminawi said the game will also 
start featuring words for special events.
“Katniss,” for example, will appear 
this week in anticipation of “The Hun-ger Games” film release, he said.
As the game accumulates fans, 
the company will add new features, including player chat rooms and the 
ability to save pictures, Alminawi 
said.
Andrew Johnson has been playing 
Draw Something on his iPhone every day since Spring Break.
“It’s pretty addicting,” the 19-year-
old biology freshman said. “The game makes you take a creative angle on how to communicate without words.”
Although Draw Something is lim-
ited to the iPhone and Android, others are trying to not miss out.
Johnson’s twin brother, Andre, has 
a Windows phone, but that doesn’t stop him from playing against his friends.
“Whenever I hear my brother’s 
phone go off, I make sure to get a hold of it so I can get a turn,” the 19-year-old microbiology freshman said.New smartphone application gaining popularity THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
TALLAHASSEE — Gov. 
Rick Scott told protesters 
demanding an independent 
investigation into the fatal 
shooting of a black teenager by a neighborhood watch 
captain that the case will be 
handled properly.
About 50 people led by 
a group of lawyers walked into Scott’s lobby Tuesday to deliver a letter and ask to speak with the governor. 
They applauded when 
Scott unexpectedly stepped 
out of his office.
The  
g r o u p wants the 
F l o r i d a 
Depart-
ment of Law En-forcement 
to take over the investiga-tion of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin’s death last month in Sanford. 
George Zimmerman 
claims he shot Martin in self-defense and hasn’t been charged.
Scott said FDLE will 
continue to assist Sanford police in the investigation, and he’s confident the agen-cy will make sure that if Zimmerman did something 
wrong, he won’t get away 
with it.Gov. Scott 
expects 
justice in 
unarmed teen’s 
deathon campuS
SARAH LOFTUS
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the first time, a UF student organiza-
tion will dedicate a month to raising aware-
ness about the daily oppression Palestinians face.
Students for Justice in Palestine at UF, a 
200-member organization, is hosting four events in honor of Palestinian Solidarity Month. Last year, the organization dedicat-ed a week to the cause.
The third event will take place tonight at 
8 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 282.
Josh Ruebner, the national advocacy di-
rector of the U.S. campaign to end Israeli oc-cupation, will speak about America’s role in 
the conflict.
Wednesday, the organization will hold 
a poetry night. Remi Kanazi, a Palestinian-American performance poet and human rights activist, will perform poems about 
Palestine, justice and coexistence. Before his performance, students will have the chance to read poetry related to the issue.
Mohammad Tina, the organization’s 
president, said the goal is to show that coex-istence is possible. The group wants to show that Palestinians and Israelis need equal rights, he said.
“Peace is possible, but only with real jus-
tice,” said the 22-year-old food science and human nutrition senior.
The organization already hosted two events this month. The first was a screen-
ing of a documentary about how American 
media is biased in its portrayal of the Israel-Palestine conflict.
The second event was an exhibit and ral-
ly. The group brought in a 24-foot-wide and 8-foot-tall wall with messages and statistics about how much money America gives Is-rael every year. The group chanted phrases such as, “From the river to the sea, Palestine 
will be free,” to promote its message that 
Palestinians and Israelis should have equal rights.
Tina said he feels it his duty to spread the 
word about Palestinian injustice because he lives in a place where he can voice his opin-ions. Some of his family members live in Pal-estine.
“This is the least I can do,” he said. “I am 
the voice for them.”UF organization dedicates month to Palestine
KATHERINE HAHN
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gay actor and filmmaker John Waters drew 
crowds and laughter at the opening ceremony 
of Pride Awareness Month on Monday night.
Sporting a patterned jacket and his trade-
mark mustache, Waters shared anecdotes about his life with about 500 people in the Re-itz Union Grand Ballroom.
During a Q&A session, students asked Wa-
ters about his artistic inspiration. One wanted advice about coming out.“I thought he gave a lot of info, but in a way 
that was really funny,” said 19-year-old psy-chology sophomore Ashley Smith of Santa Fe College.
Fans were able to interact with Waters dur -
ing a meet-and-greet following his talk.
Psychology sophomore Olivia DeMonte, 
19, said Waters’ statement that it doesn’t mat-
ter who you love resonated with her.
Santa Fe College English senior Rafael Ra-
mos, 21, said he walked out of the ballroom 
feeling prouder about his sexuality.
Waters said the current spotlight on the queer culture, including the gay-marriage debate, makes this an ideal time for people to explore their sexual preferences.
“There’s a gay character on every television 
show, and every family has met a gay person, so it’s much more out in the open,” he said.
Someday there will be no pride festivals, he 
said, because queer culture will be fully inte-
grated into the mainstream.
At the event, Craig Lowe, Gainesville’s 
first openly gay mayor, spoke about the city’s 
advances in making the city a safer place for 
LGBT people.
The event was organized by the UF Pride 
Student Union and sponsored by RUB Enter -
tainment and Accent Speakers Bureau.
With his characteristic humor, Waters ex-
plained why having friends with different 
sexual preferences keeps things interesting.
“Who wants to hear everyone’s worst night 
if they’re the same?”Filmmaker draws crowds, laughs as he speaks of his life
“There’s a gay character on every 
television show, and every family 
has met a gay person, so it’s much 
more out in the open.”
John Waters
gay actor and filmmakerHe spoke at Pride Awareness Month’s opening ceremonyScott
“Peace is possible, but only with 
real justice.”
Mohammad Tina
president  of Students for Justice in Palestine at UFBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
Come Get LUCKY at LEX…….
OPEN HOUSE THIS SAT!!!
12-5pm
Come view All-Inclusive private suites
Free upgrade to a 3/3 !!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
Raffle for a $100 Gift Card!!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1THE POLOS
NOW-ROOMATE MATCHING on 3/3’s
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST.
WE DO SEMISTER LEASING
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    
9-28-12-85-1
Furn. 1BR/1BA in a 4/4 with 3 other girls.
$350/mo. utilities included, Countryside 
Condos. avl. Mar 1. Jim -cell 305-664-1680, work 305-852-4044.   3-27-12-10-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED 3BR/BR Apt Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave. Across from Law School
$1650 - Special spring rate. 4BR/2BA
W/D, DW, Cent AC/Heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-30-12-53-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2BR/1BA Sun Key units starting at $550
2BR/1.5BA Sun Harbor units starting at $575
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    3-30-12-52-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $625/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   4-4-12-45-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   3-30-12-44-2
Trend's Student Rentals of the Month!
Biven's North - Huge 3BR Lakefront
The Lofts - 3BR condo on Univ Ave
Near Law School - 3/2 1,907 sf
Text "Trend" to 313131
Trend4Rent.com
4-25-74-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor units $525
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
1bed/1bath units starting at $475
2bed/2bath units starting at $550
Reduced Deposits for Full Time Grads!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720/352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183. 1BR/BA Suite Also Avail $375/mo   3-22-11-26-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com  
3-26-11-55-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
3 & 4 bedroom upgraded apartments
*$0 to sign $100 gift card/rent credit
Call today spaces going fast!
Thecrossingatsantafe.com 379.9300
4-25-12-43-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099       3-27-12-20-2
1.5 miles to UF in NW Gville. Luxury 2bd/2ba 
condo in small community: walk-in closets, 
W/D, vaulted ceilings, balcony, 1410 sqft. 
Built 2006. $900/month. Pets OK. 359-1112 
or katewallis83@yahoo.com. Avail. March 1    
3-21-12-15-2.
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings 
for Vets who qualify under Section 8 
Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun -
dry 372-3783    3-29-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    3-29-
12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   3-29-12-20-2
4BR/4BA Beautifully Renovated condo spa-
cious kitchen, living area, and bedrooms par-
tially furnished. W/D in unit. Great bus rts ten 
min to UF & shopping. $325/ room. Must rent 
all rooms at same time. Call(941)-232-1960    
4-13-12-31-2
Cute HOUSES for Aug 1
View at www.10houses.com
Cent H/A, W/D provided
Quiet Areas Bike to UF
352-316-0154 nancy@10houses.com   3-22-
12-10-2
DUCKPOND DUPLEX $700- big oak tree, 
UF near, busline, carport, immaculate, carpet, 
2br/1ba, WD hookup, CHA, fans, DW, burglar bars, postj@bellsouth.net; 352 284 3873; 352 376 0080. Prefer grads/quiet adults.   4-4-12-19-2
3BR/2BA CHARMING 1950's HOUSE
Walk/bike to UF. Small pet ok. W/D, $1295/mo. Avail August 1st.OPEN HOUSE March 17th, 11:00am - 3:00pm. 352-371-0601   410 NW 26th St.    3-23-12-10-2
Beautiful 2-story house. 2.5 miles from UF. 
5BR/2.5BA 2400sq.ft. on large treed lot. Very quiet neighbrhd. H/W & tile floors, ceil-ing fans, W/D, ref, stove, dishwasher. $1600/mo & security deposit. 727-686-1404    3-27-12-10-2
3 Bed House $795/mo available now &
Aug. Central AC, wooden floors, w/d
hook-ups, and a vintage style walking
distance to campus and downtown.
University Ave & NW 8th st area. By Leo
706 Call now! 352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
3-27-12-10-2
***WALK OR BIKE TO UF ***
3/2 vintage home or 2/2 apt includes parking, 
available August 2012. Call Carolyn 352-538-3556 or email alligatoralley@cox.net4-10-12-20-2
2BR/2.5BA LUXURY CONDO
1/2 mile from campus. On busline. Free in-
ternet. W/D, clubhouse. $825/mo. Call 352-332-8841    3-27-12-10-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
               ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100               ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500               ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15003-27-12-10-2EXCELLENT SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
3BR/2BA & 4BR/3BA. Close to UF.
630 NW 34th Terr / 611 NW 36th Terr /
3404 NW 7th Pl. 
Call Mike 352-665-7316 Pets OK.   4-12-12-
20-2
TIRED OF COMPLEX LIVING?
Quite, 2BR/2BA, Includes, W/D, HSInternet, 
943SF, MUST SEE. Loc: off SW 34th St, close to shopping, UF, VA, Vet School/ RTS  Bus Rt 36 Stops at complex about every 20 
Min. ONLY A FEW LEFT FOR FALL CALL 
FOR TOUR TODAY (352) 335-5424   3-23-
5-2
LOOKING FOR 5/BR/3BA FOR FALL/
GREAT DEAL FOR GROUP LIVING.Located 
just off SW34th Close to shopping, Shands, 
VA, Vet School, UF $2500M/JUST$500/Per 
Bedroom CALL FOR TOUR TODAY (352) 
335-5424   3-23-5-2
FOR FALL/3Bd/2Ba house large fenced yard 
(Great for Pets) Located just off SW 34th St
Close to shopping, Shands, VA, Vet School, 
UF $1575/month,
CALL FOR TOUR TODAY
(352)335-5424   3-23-5-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW 
areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 
per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; 
Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com   
3-30-12-10-2
***5 or 6 BEDROOM HOUSE***
Walk to Class! Pool. 2 Living Rooms.
Lots of Parking. Available June 1st.
Call John @ 561-866-8234 for further info.
3-23-11-4-2
2BR/2BA w Study, Screened porch, end unit 
(Rockwood Villas) $750/m, close to UF, I-75, 
shopping and bus; partially furnished, W/D, 
904.874.5774    5-24-12-30-2
2bd/1.5 Apt sublet May 1. No move in $. 
pool,gym,laundry,quiet. 512-517-5457   3-23-12-3-2
********AVAILABLE NOW ********
1 BR Apartment close to UF. 116 NW 7th Ter. $495/mth. Also Downtown Studio Apt. 
216 SW 3rd Ave. $325/mth. Call 870-2760.    
4-3-12-10-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
DON’T WAIT
TO PLACE 
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 25th.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT 
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Two bedroom two bath apartment available 
for sublease available on April 1 2012 at Stoneridge Apartments For information call Carlos 954-732-3962 or Jorge 954-594-9878    3-23-12-5-3
$399 Furnished Sublease: May 2012/
July 2012 (The Landings) (Electric/Water Included; 1bed/1 bath in a 3 bed/3 bath)Contact Corey at corey118@gmail.com or at (347) 756-9688    3-23-12-5-3Perfect sublease till July.
It's a 2/2 Boardwalk apt. for $735/month + 
deposit. Call (352)278-5268.   3-21-3-3
DOWNTOWN LIVING AT IT'S BEST!! WALK 
TO HIPP, RESTURANTS, NIGHTLIFE. 3/3 
WASHER,DRYER,CABLE,INTERNET, 
PARKING INCLUDED. PETS OK. $1544
Xreally@mindspring.com    3-28-11-7-3
1 BR in 3/2 unit at Royal Village. may-jul 
2012. 2 pools, gym, bbq, printing center. fully 
furnished, utilities included for $539 (negotia -
ble). 4 blocks from UF. Call 352-575-7598 or 
visit office on 710 SW Depot Ave    3-23-3-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-25-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDEDNO MOVE IN COST.WE DO SEMISTER LEASINGFrances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    9-28-12-85-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 6/1/12    4-11-12-20-4Looking for female roommate for
Summer (May - Aug / 2012) at Cazabella
2 bdrm / 1 bath Apt Renting a furnished
Master bdrm - $415 / month + elect +
Wi-Fi. Ashley: 954-554-5133
anaguirre@comcast.net
    3-23-11-3-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       
4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in 
bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!
Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL
352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com
4-25-11-99-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-
73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-15-58-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-
72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!
VEHICLES $500 AND UP!
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!
OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!
CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!
VEHICLES STARTING $500!!
PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $1500
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1700
98 GRAND AM $1999
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
97 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
97 MITS MIRAGE $2500
98 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $2999
95 CHEVY BLAZER $2999
98 DODGE DURANGO $4999
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $3500
00 HONDA ACCORD $3999
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $699902 TOYOTA CAMRY $699904 CHEVY ASTRO $6999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
04 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $799902 HONDA ODYSSEY $799901 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,99906 SATURN ION $11,99907 FORD MUSTANG $12,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  
3-23-12-74-13
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising 
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator 
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be available to work Summer C.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are wel -
come to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
12, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counselors 
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp 
located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 
11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. 
www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx
4-25-12-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
!!ATTN SMOKERS!! You're needed to par-
ticipate in a study conducted by the UF 
Smoking Lab assessing effects of exercise 
on cravings, withdrawal, and/or smoking. 
Compensation provided!! Call 336-406-3706 
or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    3-23-19-
14
ATTORNEY WITH MINIMUM TWO YEARS 
EXPERIENCE IN ESTATE PLANNING & 
BUSINESS LAW wanted for prestigious 
Sarasota law firm. Please send resume to 
sarasotalaw@yahoo.com    4-11-12-30-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and 
Reliable 371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G    3-30-17-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi -
cated people who love working with children. 
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481    3-21-12-10-14
Seeking a personal assistant.i.e., miscella -
neous errands, phone calls, resolving minor 
issues, mailings, bill payment and general organizing.You will be paid $550/week send your resume to :lin.da2@aol.com 786-519-3572    3-27-12-10-14
Andrea is leaving to get married. Busy 
law firm seeks F/T admin/legal assistant. Dependable w/great typing and proofreading skills. Exp. w/ Word & Excel. Spanish speak-ing a plus! Pay DOE. Send resume tocarrillolawoffice@gmail.com     3-27-10-14
Sedentary adults needed to participate 
in a study conducted by the UF Get Up and Go Initiative assessing the accuracy & ease of use of an advanced pedometer. COMPENSATION provided! Call 336-406-3706 or email fitbit10000@gmail.com   3-23-8-14
FISH LOVERS WANTED! Excellent sales 
opportunity for someone who loves tropical fish and likes to work with people. Training program, advancement possibilities, flex-ible hours. Work in a clean modern store with great people. Bring resume with ref-erences to Aquatropics, 2100 SW34th Street,Gainesville.   3-22-12-7-14Students needed for part-time sales, $10-
$12/hr., no experience required, flexible 
schedules, must have good communication 
skills, located in Creekside Mall, call Mike 
352-533-2201   3-27-10-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between 
the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-
tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking 
Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or
smokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   
3-27-10-14
Volunteer for Money
Participants needed for one-hour focus 
group. Must be 18 years or older and attend 
UF.  We want your perspective on mental 
health. Completely CONFIDENTIAL. Will 
receive $20 UF Bookstore gift card and free 
pizza. Email GatorWellProjects@mail.ufl.
edu with subject line Focus Group Volunteer.   
3-30-12-14
Programmer Needed
Dilinky, Inc. is looking for an individual to 
create and program a website. Contact Us 
at Help@Dilinky.com.
3-23-5-14
Info Tech, Inc. - Info Tech, Inc. is a mar-
ket leader in software for infrastructure 
construction management. Please visit 
our website to apply for open positions:
http://www.infotechfl.com/apply
3-21-12-5-14
Marketing Project Manager wanted for 
Gainesville web design company. Web de-
sign/marketing experience required. Email 
resume to hr@352media.com.    3-23-12-
7-14
One serious hardworking and trustworthy UF 
student. Gen or const help, exp w/electrical 
& plumbing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy 
lifting. Familiar w/ Sketchup or AutoCAD. PT flex hrs. $7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183     3-23-11-7-14
LPN (FT) needed for FP Clinic on eastside 
of Gainesville. Great Pay! Fax Resume 352 371 3320 or send to ocolasante@yahoo.com   3-23-12-5-14
MD/DO (FT or PT) needed for FP CL on 
eastside of Gainesville. Office Svcs only. Need FL Lic and Dea#. Exc Salary. CV to ocolasante@yahoo.com/fax 352 371 3320   3-23-12-5-14
352 Media Group is seeking a part-time 
Network Support Technician. Experience w/programming & web technologies is pre-ferred. Email resume to hr@352media.com   3-27-12-7-14
Telescope Pictures
Hiring for 75+ Beach Photographer Positions!
Ocean City, MD - Virginia - Beach, VA - 
Panama City Beach, FL
Live and work at the beach this summer!
Earn $10,000+ and get a free tan!
Housing and paid internships available!
Apply today; mytelescopepictures.com
We work hard, have fun, and
take care of our employees!
3-21-12-3-14
New Scooters 4 Less is looking for a kind 
and polite PT or FT secretary. Must be avail. to work over summer and fall.  Email Collin@NS4L.com for details.   4-2-10-14
New Scooters 4 Less is hiring PT and FT 
scooter technicians.  Must be avail for sum-mer and fall semesters.  Must have experi -
ence with 2T & 4T motors.  Email Collin@NS4L.com.    4-2-10-14
Looking for business partners. Are you tired 
of doing what you are doing & getting what you are getting? Need a "B" plan? If you an-swered yes then let me teach you to invest in yourself. GillisExpress2012@gmail.com    3-26-12-4-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 or
expresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    3-23-12-20-15
ANXIOUS, STRESSED, DEPRESSED, 
RELATIONSHIP CONCERNS? Don't hesis-tate in getting help another day. Make an ap-pointment with Theresa Rodriguez, licensed psychotherapist. Visit her website and make an appt online or call her at (352) 359-0264. Theresa.Rodriguez.com    4-9-14-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad 
in the classifieds to find trip arrangements 
or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
AMERICAN BULLDOG PUPS
UKC Registered. Top bloodlines. 1M, 1F. 
White w/spots. $200 each. 386-362-2451 ,gatorlandkennels@windstream.net   3-21-12-5-24
Need place to house 2 year old crate trained 
pitbull. Moved and can't have dog at current place. I will feed, walk, etc. but need place to house him.Can pay small fee. Call 281-4240 or vanvliet@ufl.edu This is NOT an adoption.    3-27-12-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
HYPNOSIS $23.95
quit smoking, diet, sleep better, stress, memory improvement, and test anxiety. go 
to www.hypnosisclassestoday.com for info 
and pre-pay    3-21-12-10-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-25-72-18
Best religion? No religion!
Superb Bible instructions:versebyverseministry.orgJust click and listen.     3-30-10-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
GUNSHOW - MARCH 24 & 25
Alachua County Fair Grounds2900 NE 39th Ave. (near the airport)Sat 9 - 4 & Sun 9 - 3. Admission $7Info: Cliffhangers 386-375-6114    3-23-12-5-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  M-R, March 26 – 29  from 5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions on M & W, Math on T & R.  Go to teachingcenter.ufl.edu to register and learn the room location.3-26-4-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Freshman pitcher Johnny 
Magliozzi helped Florida avoid a midweek stumble against Samford on Tuesday. See story, page 15. Tebow-mania
Where do you want to see former Gators quarterback Tim Tebow end up assuming the Denver Broncos trade him? Vote online at 
alligatorSports.org.
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
For the second time in coach 
Amanda Butler’s tenure, the na-
tion’s top-ranked team has ended the Gators’ season.
Florida lost to eventual national 
champion Connecticut in the 2009 NCAA Tournament. On Tuesday , UF fell to overall No. 1 seed Baylor 
76-57 in Bowling Green, Ohio.UF’s last seven appearances in 
The Big Dance have ended with de-
feats in the first two rounds.
“You’ve got to fight, and execute 
and play disciplined defense at the 
same time — those things didn’t 
all happen,” assistant coach Brenda Mock Kirkpatrick said. “Fight hap-pened. Execution and disciplined defense did not.”
The Gators (20-13) remained 
competitive with the Bears (36-0) in the first half by putting together a late scoring surge and holding Nai-
smith Trophy finalist Brittney Griner 
to a uncharacteristic slow start.
Griner, who scored a game-high 
25 points, went scoreless for more than 12 minutes to start the game. 
The 6-foot-8 junior center did not 
attempt a shot until 10:18 mark and failed to score until there was 8:18 left to play in the first half.
“Our defensive gameplan … 
was to just try to be in position to discourage the pass from going in (to Griner),” Butler said. “We didn’t want to try to double or … have some scheme for how we’ll guard her after she gets the ball because it’s 
just frankly not what we’ve done all 
year.”
After Griner’s first points, Bay-
lor’s Kimetria Hayden hit a shot 
beyond the arc to give the Bears a 
15-point lead, their largest of the game up to that point.
Then, Florida responded with a 
9-0 run, bolstered by two 3-pointers from Andrea Vilaro Aragones. The stretch helped the Gators cut the lead to six points and go into half-time trailing the Bears 35-26. 
It was the fewest first-half points 
UF has scored since a 75-59 loss to Tennessee on Feb. 26.
“I felt like we [were] in the game 
still,” senior guard Deana Allen 
AP Photo
Seniors Azania Stewart, Jordan Jones and Deana Allen embrace follow -
ing their season-ending NCAA Tournament loss to Baylor on Tuesday.
Undefeated Baylor too much for UF
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
For nearly a week, the West 
region of the NCAA Tourna-
ment was a tease. 
After two rounds in Oma-
ha, Neb., the potential fire-
works from Florida facing a 
team with a similarly potent 
offense and frenzied pace in 
the early rounds never came.
Instead, a second-round 
upset of second-seeded Mis-
souri eliminated any possibil-
ity of such a matchup, leav-
ing the No. 7 seed Gators to easily dictate the speed and tempo of their two blowout 
wins against 10th-seeded Vir -
ginia and No. 15 seed Norfolk 
State. 
Heading into the Sweet 
16 this Thursday in Phoenix, 
coach Billy Donovan hinted 
the wait could be over.
No. 3 seed Marquette has 
proven this season it can run 
with and pressure anyone.
“They’ve got great speed 
and quickness,” Donovan said. “People might look at their size and say they’re un-dersized, but I would disagree. I think they’re a great offen-sive rebounding team, they’re an attack team and they push the ball very hard.”
The Golden Eagles sprint-
ed through the regular season as the Big East’s most potent scoring offense at 75.9 points per game, fueled in large part by their powerful blend of full- and half-court pressure.
Led by 6-foot-6 senior 
Jae Crowder, the conference player of the year, Marquette 
forces 8.7 steals per game — 
12th-most in the nation — and 
has scored 38 points off 33 combined turnovers in its first two wins in the tournament 
against No. 14 seed BYU and  
sixth-seeded Murray State.
Crowder, who averages 
17.6 points and ranks 10th 
in the nation at 2.5 steals per 
game, snagged a total of sev-
en steals in both victories.
“They’re a quick-reacting 
team,” Donovan said. “Tak-
ing care of the basketball in 
any game 
b e c o m e s 
important, 
but certain-ly against 
them with 
the way 
they play it will be 
equally important because they certainly manufacture a lot of points with deflections and tips and steals.”
While the Gators have al-
lowed double-digit turnovers just twice in their last six games, both instances have come in the NCAA Tourna-ment. Florida gave posses-sion away 12 times last Friday against Virginia and 13 times two days later while playing Norfolk State. 
Donovan pointed to fresh-Florida prepping for 
fast-paced Marquette
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Mike Gillislee remembers what it was like 
in practice during his freshman season.
The Gators’ running back would line up in 
the backfield at Sanders Practice Field and try 
to pick up blitzes from former All-American linebacker Brandon Spikes, now with the New England Patriots.
“It ain’t go too good,” Gillislee said.While the 5-foot-11, 201-pound senior run-
ning back has shown flashes of brilliance, as well as the potential to be the downhill style of 
runner the Gators want, his troubles in learn-
ing pass protection followed him into game action his first three years and limited his snaps in games.As a junior last season, Gillislee was Flor -
ida’s third-leading rusher, but he had just 56 
carries compared to Chris Rainey’s 171 and Jeff Demps’ 98. He was used predominantly in 
rushing downs because he was a liability in 
pass protection.
The hardest part, he said, was having to pick up pass-rushers and then releasing into 
a route. 
While picking up linebackers on the blitz 
came easier to Gillislee, he also admitted to having trouble reading defenses before the snap and at the snap when the pass-rush was coming from other positions, like safeties and 
cornerbacks.
What proved even more troublesome for 
Gillislee, who said he never had to stay back in 
pass protection at Deland High, was having to Notebook: Gillislee believes pass-protection issues behind himsee W-HOOPs, PA ge 14see HOOPs, PA ge 14
see FOOTBALL, PA ge 16Donovan
Manning joins Broncos, Tebow now in limbo
UF Fo otball
Poll Results
How far can Florida advance 
in the NCAA Tournament?35% CHAMPIONsHIP 
32% eLITe eIgHT
23% FINAL FOUR
9% s WeeT 16
74 total votessaid. “I felt like we hung in there in 
the first half.”
After the break, Griner came 
out firing, scoring Baylor’s first six points. She punctuated the spurt by cutting past Florida’s Azania Stew-art in the paint, catching a pass from Hayden and dunking the basketball 
to open up a 41-28 lead.
When Griner’s fingers touched 
the rim, she became just the second 
woman to ever dunk in the NCAA Tournament.
“I mean, it’s a great play , you 
know, most women can’t do that,” Stewart said. “I think we bounced back great from there. I don’t think it affected us that much.”
Griner came close to a double-
double with nine rebounds, and she blocked a game-high six shots, out-doing Jennifer George’s three.
Despite Griner’s four-inch height 
advantage over Stewart, UF’s tall-est player, the Gators kept pace on the boards, tying the Bears with 43 rebounds.
Florida performed particularly 
well on the offensive glass thanks to a game-high five offensive rebounds from Deana Allen.
UF grabbed 24 offensive boards, 
recording an offensive rebounding percentage of 48 percent; the Gators led the Southeastern Conference with 43.7 percent this season.
As a result, Florida outscored 
Baylor 21-16 in second-chance points, including a 13-6 advantage in the second half.
However, the Gators’ rebound-
ing was not enough as they strug-gled to overcome foul trouble and poor shooting, which led to a 24-of-33 performance by the Bears at the 
free-throw line.
UF earned its 10th personal foul 
of the second half at the 10:29 mark, 
putting Baylor in the double bonus.
Only 56 seconds later, Ndidi 
Madu committed an off-ball foul on Griner, a call that ultimately earned Butler a technical foul when she ar -
gued it extensively.
“Was I trying to get a technical 
foul? No, huh-uh. No, I was not,” Butler said.
The loss marks the end of the ca-
reers of the Gators’ five seniors: Al-
len, Jones, Madu, Stewart and Lanita 
Bartley. Florida finished the season with 20 wins, the second-highest to-tal under Butler in five seasons.
“We played the best team on the 
best floor, and we gave them our best shot,” Stewart said. “So, we walk out of here with our shoulders high, our heads up.”
Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@
alligator.org14, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
AP Photo
Florida center Azania Stewart (13) and guard Deana Allen defend 
6-foot-8 Baylor center Brittany Griner during Florida’s 76-57 loss in the second round of the NCAA Tournament on Tuesday. 
Griner second woman to dunk in tourney
W-HOOPS , from page 13
AP Photo
Freshman guard Brad Beal (23) gets tangled up with Norfolk State forward A.J. Rogers and 
guard Brandon Wheeless while driving to the basket in UF’s third-round win Sunday. Donovan looking for better 
decision-making from Beal
man starter Brad Beal as a player whose 
decision-making will be critical in the next round. 
Through two games in the NCAA 
Tournament, Beal has a team-high six turnovers.
“(In college), passes that you could 
normally make in high school that would be an easy pass or layup for somebody or an open shot, sometimes at this level is deflected or stolen.” Donovan said. “A lot of Brad’s turnovers came from that. I don’t want to say carelessness, but think-ing something’s there that’s not there or something’s open for a moment and then it gets closed down.”
Before the NCAA Tournament began, 
Beal looked to have a handle on his turn-overs, committing just three in UF’s pre-vious five games. The stretch featured two matchups with top-seeded Kentucky 
and games against equally tough teams 
inside like No. 5 seed Vanderbilt and No. 
9 seed Alabama.
Though his giveaways have increased 
recently, Beal said he has grown more 
comfortable driving the lane and even running Florida’s offense when the 
Gators are in need of a pri-
mary ball-han-
dler aside from 
Erving Walker.
“We play with a tremendous amount 
of confidence and we don’t back down from anybody,” Beal said. “Just because 
they’re tough, (doesn’t mean) we’re (not) 
going to come out and play and compete 
hard and play the way coach wants us 
to play.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alliga-
tor.org.HOOPS , from page 13KATIE AGOSTIN
Alligator Writer
 
Close, but no cigar.
That’s how coach Mike Hol-
loway described Florida’s pre-vious appearances at the NCAA Outdoor Championships.
“We’re going to try to do 
better this year outdoors,” Hol-loway said. “Our goal is to get better and better each week as we go along and to be at our best in the conference.”
In the last three years, the 
men came up short with two second-place finishes and a 
third-place finish. This season, 
the Gators will be looking to sprinter Tony McQuay to help  change that. 
During the NCAA Indoor 
Championships, McQuay proved he could perform well for the team under pressure. 
“We had a little adversity 
during the competition with our senior leader Gray Horn going down with an injury ,” Holloway said. “But Tony Mc-Quay, Jeff Demps, Omar Crad-dock stepped up and won na-tional titles for us.”
After Horn hurt himself dur -
ing pole vault warm-ups, Mc-
Quay ran the 400m with a time 
of 45.77 to help lead Florida to its third straight indoor national title. Although the mark wasn’t a personal record, McQuay was still pleased with his winning performance considering that he hadn’t been running a lot during the indoor season. 
With the indoor season now 
over, the defending USA cham-pion couldn’t be happier about moving on to the outdoor sea-son. 
“Indoor kind of drains me,” McQuay said. “I have to hy-drate a lot from being inside, and I easily get dehydrated. That’s been a problem with me — I don’t like to drink a lot of water — and that’s what causes problems with my ham-strings.”
McQuay also went on to say 
that another reason he doesn’t like running indoors is the banked tracks because it’s bad for his hips.
Looking at his performance 
this year, it’s hard to tell that McQuay favors outdoor run-ning as much as he does. In ad-dition to his indoor national ti-
tle, he finished first in the 400m 
during both days of the Virginia Tech Elite Meet on Feb. 3-4.
With his performance dur -
ing the in-door season, it’s no sur -
prise that 
McQuay has 
a lot of confi-
dence going into the out-door season. 
“Out-
doors I’m more relaxed,” Mc-Quay said. “I just know the track and I have a better feel for it.”
Although his confidence 
is high, McQuay is aware that winning the USA Champion-ships last summer with an im-pressive 44.68 and the indoor championships less than two weeks ago has made him a tar -
get.
“I know I have some com-
petition at the end toward na-tionals,” McQuay said. “A lot of people don’t run indoors, so I know there will be a lot more people outdoors.”McQuay, UF looking 
for outdoor success
Holloway
UF Bask etballJOSH JURNOVOY
Alligator Writer
 
The last time the Gators welcomed a 
ranked opponent to Gainesville, Florida’s 
players experienced the closest game they 
have seen in their three years with the 
team.
So it was a surprise when Tuesday 
night’s game was one of the most one-sid-
ed wins they have had all season.
No. 4 Florida (9-2) set the tone early 
and did not look back as it scored a team-
record 17 first-half goals in a 20-4 win over No. 8 Dartmouth (5-1) at Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium.
The 20 goals were the most the Gators 
have ever scored against a ranked oppo-
nent.
In its last home game against a top-20 
team, a 12-11 double overtime loss to Syra-cuse on March 3, Florida fell behind 4-0 in the first half. Coach Amanda O’Leary said getting the quick start on Tuesday was in-
tegral to the win.
“Whenever you can come out on any 
lead, whether it is one goal or five goals, 
it’s going to be an emotional lift to your 
team,” O’Leary said. 
The Gators jumped out to a 5-0 lead less 
than 10 minutes into the game with junior 
attacker Kitty Cullen scoring two of the goals. 
In that same time span, Florida held 
Dartmouth to just one shot and the Big Green only passed the UF restraining line twice.
Florida was able to disrupt Dartmouth 
in transition during the run by forcing the visitors to commit five of their eventual 15 turnovers.
Junior goalkeeper Mikey Meagher in-
tercepted a pass from Big Green midfielder Kirsten Goldberg on the first possession of the game, allowing Cullen to travel down the field and score the first of her five goals 
on the night.
After a free-position shot from junior attacker Gabi Wiegand was saved with 
24:01 left in the half, the Big Green got the ball out in transition, but Gators freshman midfielder Shannon Gilroy was able to 
force a turnover. 
Junior midfielder Brittany Dashiell put 
the Gators up 4-0 with one of her three 
goals on the ensuing possession.
“We just worked really hard to try and 
get the ball back as much as possible and keep it in our offensive end,” Cullen said.
When Wiegand failed to complete a 
pass to junior attacker Ashley Bruns in the 11th minute, Big Green goalkeeper Kristen Giovanniello briefly controlled the ball be-fore Cullen forced her to turn it over out 
of bounds. 
On the inbounds play, Cullen found 
Bruns who wrapped around the right post 
for the goal, and the Gators lead by at least 
five the rest of the game.
 “Right when I checked [Giovanniello], 
Ashley kind of just split from me and I was 
able to get the turnover and pass it to her right away,” Cullen said.
The Florida defense was equally im-
pressive in the win, holding the Big Green scoreless in the second half on 11 shots. Ju-nior defender Sam Farrell said the defense 
was well versed in what the Big Green 
wanted to do offensively.
“They were really big on their cutters 
and back doors and we worked a lot on that in practice this past week,” Farrell 
said. 
“Stopping them on that was huge.” WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida attacker Kitty Cullen splits two Dartmouth defenders while attacking the goal 
during the Gators’ 20-4 win against the Big Green on Tuesday. Cullen scored five goals.
David Carr / Alligator Staff
Freshman pitcher Johnny Magliozzi pumps his fist after recording a 
pivotal strike out of Samford’s Tommy Corbin on Tuesday.
� FLORIDA BEAT SAMFORD 5-3 ON TUESDAY.
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
For the first month of the season, Johnny Magliozzi 
wasn’t quite himself. 
Muzzled by a 5.19 ERA and a few outings that 
he is not proud of, the pitcher known for his emo-
tional play has been rather low-key on the mound. Magliozzi even went as far as changing his warm-up music from “Staying Alive” by the Bee Gees to Wale’s 
“Ambition” in an effort to “change my swag.”
But after striking out Samford third baseman 
Tommy Corbin to strand a runner at second and get 
out of Tuesday night’s fourth inning, the 20-year-old freshman pitcher from East Milton, Mass., finally and 
emphatically let loose. 
“I was trying to get on the highlight video,” Ma-
gliozzi said. “I was just trying to get a fist pump go-
ing.”
The gesture was equal parts excitement and relief, 
a common theme on the evening for No. 1 Florida (20-1) as it defeated Samford (13-8) 5-3 in a gritty affair. 
With Magliozzi getting his third-career start, the 
Gators’ main focus was not overlooking a veteran 
Bulldogs squad before hitting the road Wednesday 
morning for a Thursday-Friday-Saturday rematch of last season’s College World Series against No. 8 South Carolina. 
After falling behind early in a roller-coaster first 
inning that saw Magliozzi strike out three but also allow a leadoff double and an RBI single, Florida an-swered with a Mike Zunino RBI single in the bottom of the frame. It would become a theme of the night.
“Every time they scored a run, we responded with 
another one,” senior right fielder Preston Tucker said. “It’s tough to beat us if we do that.”
The Gators responded again with two runs in the 
second, highlighted by a Josh Tobias RBI single, to 
gain a lead that would be contested but never over -
come. Later surges by Samford were shut down by 
Zunino and Taylor Gushue RBI hits as well as effec-tive relief. 
Departing after his fourth-inning strikeout because 
of a strict pitch count (59 pitches), Magliozzi’s six-strikeout, three-hit outing was followed by a three-inning Bobby Poyner appearance and hitless frames from Greg Larson and Austin Maddox. 
“I was a little concerned about (Samford) [Tues-
day], to be honest with you,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. 
“A lot of times teams will look ahead to the SEC 
series. That happened quite a bit last year, but they 
were focused [Tuesday], they took care of the task at 
hand.”
After committing no errors during the weekend 
against Vanderbilt, Florida had two on Tuesday — one 
coming via freshman left fielder Justin Shafer, who is 
now starting because of the outfield shift caused by center fielder Tyler Thompson’s torn ACL.
“Just because someone makes one mistake, I’m 
not going to push the panic button,” O’Sullivan said. 
“I feel very comfortable with Justin Shafer out there, 
he’s swinging the bat good, he’s a freshman. I’m just going to keep running him out there.”Magliozzi leads UF in gritty midweek win
Florida routs ranked Dartmouth at home, sets new goal record
Gators score 17 first-half goals in easy win
“Whenever you can come out on 
any lead, whether it is one goal or 
five goals, it’s going to be an emo -
tional lift to your team.”
Amanda O’Leary
UF lacrosse coach16, ALLIGATOR §  WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012
UF Communications
Freshman linebacker Antonio Morrison goes through drills 
during a recent spring football practice.  
Morrison, Stewart battling for time at LB
switch assignments when an offensive 
lineman picked up his man on the blitz.
But now, as the running back atop 
the Gators’ spring depth chart, Gillislee said improving his pass-protection skills is his main focus heading into next sea-son, and the additional reps early this 
spring have already paid dividends.
“I had a little bit of trouble (in the 
past), but I’m damn good at it now,” 
Gillislee said.
Running back by committee?:  
Coach Will Muschamp didn’t rule out the possibility of the Gators using a backfield by committee next season. 
With Gillislee and Mack Brown pro-
viding a more downhill style of run-ning, fullback Hunter Joyer being able to run out of a one-back set, Trey Burton serving as an all-purpose back and the additions of Omarius Hines and Chris 
Johnson to the backfield, Muschamp 
likes the options the offense has.
“We’ll see how everything goes,” 
Muschamp said. “We’ve got some guys with different skill sets to see where 
they match with what we’re doing of-
fensively.”
Morrison impressing early: With 
Jelani Jenkins and Jon Bostic cemented 
in the middle of Florida’s defense, ques-
tions remain about who will join them at strongside linebacker with Lerentee McCray sidelined this spring with a shoulder injury.
Junior Darrin Kitchens and sopho-
more Graham Stewart are listed on the two-deep depth chart, but Bostic has been impressed by two other young 
players: sophomore Michael Taylor and 
freshman Antonio Morrison.
Taylor played in 12 games last sea-
son and recorded 36 tackles, including 4.5 for a loss. He also forced a fumble 
and intercepted a pass. Morrison, mean-
while, enrolled early in January as the No. 10 linebacker in the 2012 recruit-ing class, according to Rivals.com, and 
made a handful of explosive plays dur -
ing the weekend’s open practices.
“Antonio is proving that he’s got the 
maturity to learn this defense and help 
contribute next year,” Bostic said. Tebow’s next destination: Four-
time NFL MVP and former Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning was introduced Tuesday as the new Denver Broncos quarterback, signing a 5-year 
deal worth a reported $96 million. 
Vice president of football operations 
John Elway said it was “possible” the 
Broncos would attempt to trade former UF quarterback Tim Tebow. 
Multiple reports have listed the 
Jacksonville Jaguars, Miami Dolphins, Green Bay Packers and New York Jets as potential suitors. 
Although the Jaguars reportedly 
appear to be the frontrunner, general manager Gene Smith is known to be against the move while new owner Sha-hid Khan said last month that he “ab-
solutely” would have drafted Tebow if 
he were Jacksonville’s owner during the 2010 draft.  
The Jaguars drafted Blaine Gabbert 
with the No. 10 overall selection last sea-son and also signed quarterback Chad Henne to a 2-year deal last week.
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.
org.Football , from page 13