VOLUME 106 ISSUE 117 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Encyclopaedia Britannica to move online
The 2010 edition will be the last one published in print, pg 4. 
UF graduate programs make list of top schools
The colleges of education, business and law were ranked, pg 5. Laidback Luke 
promotes Speak Up 
Tour. Read more on 
page 8.
NCAA Tournament Starts Today
With March Madness underway, the staff 
of alligatorSports is giving you advice on who to pick in your bracket, pg. 19. 
84/58
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Nick Brigandi, a 28-year-old employee at Mother’s Pub & Grill, pours a beer Wednesday afternoon. Brig-
andi and other employees are preparing for St. Patrick’s Day by wearing shirts from last year’s festivities.
ST. PATRICK'S DAY
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Writer
On Saturday, the green beer 
will ﬂ  ow, the Celtic music will 
blare and whiskey will ﬁ  ll the mouths of the Irish-for-a-day.
Bars, clubs and restaurants in 
Gainesville will celebrate St. Pat-rick’s Day in full with food and drink specials and an all-around party mentality.
“We are going to torture our 
employees and open up at 7 o’clock in the morning,” said Ron Norbut, general manager at Mother’s Pub & Grill.
Mother’s will serve shepherd’s 
pie and corned beef and cabbage, two traditional Irish dishes.
He said the limited menu will 
make decisions easier for his staff and the customers.
It will take 80 pounds of lamb 
to make the 200 portions of shep-herd’s pie, he said, and Mother’s has enough raw brisket meat to make 200 portions of corned beef and cabbage.
Mother’s has been celebrating St. Patrick’s Day since it opened.
“This is one of our hallmarks,” 
Norbut said.
He said customers will hear 
Flogging Molly, Dropkick Mur-phys and live bagpipes while at the restaurant.
Durty Nelly’s Irish Pub has 
been preparing since Jan. 1 for St. Patrick’s Day, mostly because it will be hosting two live music acts, said Adam Wood, manager of Durty Nelly’s.
Fear Buile, a Gainesville-based 
Irish band, will perform starting at 9 p.m. on Friday at the restau-rant, he said.
Bobby Murray, a Scottish-Irish 
accordion player and singer, will perform Saturday from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m., Wood said. DJ Leroy from 100.5 The Buzz will be play-ing Dropkick Murphys, Flogging Molly and other bands.
Durty Nelly’s will serve Guin-
ness for $4.50, Irish car bombs for $7 and pints of domestic beer for $3, but it will not have green beer.Irish pubs prepare for St. Patrick’s Day crowds
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Jason S. Hoover only had 160 
days left on his sentence when he ran.
Hoover, 31, was part of the 
Alachua County Work Release Program, which allows mini-mum-security inmates to remain employed while serving time. He checked out of the work release center at 9:07 p.m. on Feb. 8.
He was supposed to work the 
night shift at the Burger King on Southwest Archer Road, but he didn’t show up. He was supposed to check in again at the work re-lease center at 9 a.m. the next day, but he didn’t return.
Hoover, who was sentenced on Dec. 20 for fraud and cocaine possession, was scheduled for re-lease July 17. Now, he faces up to 15 years in prison for escape — a second-degree felony.
Hoover was caught on March 
5 when Tampa Police found him on the street and picked him up on a war-rant. He was booked at the H i l l s b o ro u g h County Jail and, 
on Tuesday, driven back to Ala-chua County, where he was held Wednesday in lieu of a $100,000 bond.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alliga-
tor.org.Police catch escaped 
minimum-security inmate � THE FLORIDA LEGISLATURE MADE 
THE FORM A REQUIREMENT TO RECEIVE BRIGHT FUTURES LAST YEAR.
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF deadline for completing a Free Ap-
plication for Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA, is 
today. Students must complete the application by the university’s deadline to be considered for need-based university aid for the 2012-2013 academic year.
Last year, the Florida Legislature made ﬁ  l-
ing a FAFSA a requirement for Bright Futures scholarships, which will not be able to disperse a student’s award to UF until the state has re-ceived the student’s FAFSA.
Rodlee Ritter, an assistant director with 
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce for Student Financial Affairs, said the university distributes its limited funds for student need-based aid on a ﬁ  rst-come, ﬁ  rst-served basis. She also said UF could run out of money before accommodating all the eligible applicants who turned in their applications close to the deadline.
“If all the money’s gone when we get to that 
group of students, it’s gone,” she said. “It’s al-ways better to apply as soon as possible.”
The deadline for federal aid is June 30, 
2013.
Although Blake Spruill, 20, said he doesn’t 
think he’ll receive any federal or UF aid, he said he plans to complete a FAFSA so he can renew his Bright Futures scholarship. 
He said he won’t enjoy the process, though.“I’ve never really liked ﬁ  lling out forms,” 
the architecture junior said. “The length of it is pretty bad and there’s a lot of ﬁ  ne print.”Students must complete FAFSA 
today to receive aid next yearSEE IRISH, PAGE 4
Hoover
“If all the money’s gone when we 
get to that group of students, it’s gone.             
It’s always better to apply as soon as   
possible.”
Rodlee Ritter
assistant director with                                          
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce for Student Financial AffairsNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 117 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classiﬁ  eds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jﬂ  echas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
Metro Editor Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Marissa Prieto, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett,   
  David Williams, Nika Zecevic
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org Classiﬁ  ed Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke,   Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
PARTLY
CLOUDY
84/58THUNDER
STORMS
84/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
84/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
84/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
82/57FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Women Empowered?  Reflections 
on Women’s Conception of 
Autonomy in Communist Romania
Today, 10:40 a.m.Turlington, Room 3312This is a graduate seminar with Maria Bucur-Deckard, of Indiana University. Students from any discipline are wel-come.
T urban Day
Today, noon to 4 p.m.Turlington PlazaThe Sikh Students Association is hosting this religious aware-ness event to educate students and Gainesville community members about the signifi-cance of the turban in the Sikh faith and tie turbans on them so they can experience what it feels like to stand out and be 
different.
Heroes and Victims:  The Burden 
of Memory in Post-1945 Romania
Today, 3:30 p.m.Dauer Hall, Room 215This talk by Maria Bucur-Deckard, of Indiana University, examines how various local communities and official state institutions in Eastern Europe tried to engineer the past, by constructing representations of wartime violence through monuments and commemora-tive processes.
“An Unfinished Dream” film 
screeningToday, 7:30 p.m.CSE, Room E220Learn about the DREAM Act and the struggles undocu-mented students face in the U.S. to succeed. This event is a part of CHISPAS Week 2012. All students are welcome. Free refreshments will be served.
’80s Purim Party
Today, 8:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.UF Hillel, 2020 W. University Ave.Wear the brightest neon and nicest leg warmers for our ’80s Purim Party. All proceeds from this event will benefit UF Hillel’s Relay for Life team. There will be a raffle silent auc-tion with tickets $1 each or five for $3, beverages for sale and as worthy of study and exhibi-tion. For more information go to theartofgooglebooks.tum-blr.com/exhibit.
TSF performs 12 Hours of Improv 
and GatorNightsFriday, noon to midnightOrange & BrewHelp yourself to some laughs while helping fund cancer re-search. Theatre Strike Force is in the O&B from noon til mid-night for its annual 12 Hours of Improv event. Make a donation and enjoy improv and sketch comedy. At 10 p.m., see TSF’s GatorNights performance to round out the evening.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
The Monday edition of the Al-
ligator incorrectly reported that Garrett Garner brought Totuit to Gainesville. Garner brought Totu-it to the table to talk about advanc-ing Gainesville economically.
A photo caption in the Tuesday 
edition of the Alligator incorrectly identiﬁ  ed a saxophone soloist as Grammy-winning trumpeter Wynton Marsalis.hamentashen.
UF Shakespeare in the Park 
presents “A Midsummer 
Night’s Dream”
Today to Saturday, 6:30 p.m.Sunday, 2 p.m.Plaza of the AmericasWith an under-the-sea twist, young lovers, human and fairy royalty and an amateur theater troupe reel through a kelp forest of romance and spellcraft in one of Shakespeare’s works. Gather a few friends and a lawn chair or blanket and make your way over to the Plaza of the Americas for a free eve-ning (or Sunday afternoon) of love, mischief, magic and Shakespeare.
Prom Dress Drive begins
Today to March 23Women’s History Month is hosting the first Prom Dress Drive benefiting Gainesville-area high schools. Donate gently used prom/special occasion dresses to local high school students who might not otherwise be able to at-tend prom. Drop boxes will be located in all residence hall common areas.
The Art of Google Books
Today to April 3Reitz Union, second floor galleryMonday to Thursday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.Friday to Sunday, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.Reception March 22, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.“The Art of Google Books,” by Krissy Wilson, is an image curation blog that values the diverse, startling and undoc-umented adversaria chroni-cled in book digitization. The aim of the project is twofold: to recognize book digitiza-tion as re-photography, and to promote the signs of use that accompany these texts 
 THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
CHRIS ALCANTARA
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s College of Journalism and 
Communications made the top of 
the class in CollegeMagazine.com’s list of best journalism schools.
UF’s listing stated its “modern 
stance has kept it ahead of the curve, which has been pivotal for this ever-changing career path.”
The ranking, released Monday , 
listed the college’s four radio sta-tions, two television stations and Interactive Media Lab among its re-sources.
The ranking was done as a block 
of best 10, rather than naming each college from first through 10th.
The website determined the 
rankings based on admittance, fac-ulty, campus media outlets, avail-able technology and internship op-portunities.
John Wright, dean of the College 
of Journalism and Communications, said he credits students for the pro-gram’s accomplishments and recog-nition over the years.
“Our students go out and do 
wonderful things, and word gets around about this,” he said.
Norman Lewis, an assistant pro-fessor in the department of journal-ism, said he was proud the program was mentioned on the website, but rankings alone do not determine success.
“You can’t let rankings them-
selves, no matter how well done, be the determinant of quality ,” Lewis said. “The determinant for me is do we give our students an opportunity to succeed in today’s world, and are we continuously working to make it even better?"4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
UF’s College of Journalism and Communications was ranked among the best 10 journalism schools in 
the U.S. by CollegeMagazine.com.
UF's journalism college ranked among top 10 in country
Alumni
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF graduates were select-
ed to intern at the White House.
UF graduate Eric Glickman and 
Levin College of Law graduate 
Anushree Nakkana will begin their unpaid internships this spring.
The internships will be full-time at 40 hours a week.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
said he doesn’t remember a stu-dent being selected for a White House internship during the past few years.
“We’re always proud to see our 
grads do well,” he said.
The competitive program ac-
cepted 144 spring interns from across the country.
The White House accepts those 
who have graduated within two years of the start of the program from an undergraduate or gradu-ate school.
Glickman and Nakkana were 
also the only recent Florida public university graduates to be accept-ed into the program. The White House also selected Kelson Nisbett from Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, which has a campus in Daytona Beach.
Interns accepted to the pro-
gram could intern with the White House’s Communications Depart-ment, Office of Legislative Affairs, The Office of the First Lady, The Office of White House Counsel or 12 others.
No matter which office the 
graduates intern with, Orlando said he is glad to see Gators in the national spotlight.   
“You find UF grads in high-
profile leadership positions all over the world,” he said. “It’s good to see two more added to those ranks.”
Two UF graduates to intern at White House this spring
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested 
Tuesday night after he hit two in-
fant girls at his girlfriend’s home, police said.
Billie Lamont Mann, 35, was 
arrested on two charges of aggra-vated child abuse, according to a Gainesville Police arrest report.
In an interview, Mann’s mother 
said she was surprised by her son’s actions.
“He has always been very gentle 
with children,” said Deloris Mann-Stroud, 65. “I always feel safe around him.”
Mann’s girlfriend left him with 
her twin 9-month-old daughters while she went to do laundry, ac-cording to GPD spokeswoman Cpl. Angelina Valuri.
The infants had serious swell-
ing and bruising on their faces and heads when she returned, accord-ing to the report. 
Both were taken to Shands at UF.
Mann never said why he hit his 
girlfriend’s daughters, Valuri said. However, he was intoxicated when GPD arrested him.
Mann was brought to the GPD 
detectives office, where police told him he was be-ing charged with child abuse. Po-lice locked him in an interview-
ing room and re-moved his hand-cuffs.
He then tried to flee using his 
bank card to pick the lock of the room, according to the report.
He was later charged with try-
ing to escape police.
As of Wednesday night, Mann 
was still in jail. His bond has not been set.
“He’s a good man,” his mother 
said. “I am very upset over this.”
Contact Adrianna Paidas at apai-
das@alligator.org.Man arrested, charged 
with hitting twin girls BRITTANY ANN MORRISEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Video killed the radio star, and the Internet 
may have just killed the printed Encyclopaedia 
Britannica.
The 2010 print edition will be the last one 
published, according to a Tuesday post on The Encyclopaedia Britannica Blog. The company, which publishes an updated 32-volume encyclo-pedia every two years, plans to sell what is left of its inventory and only publish digitally.
On Wednesday, UF’s Smathers Library 
bought one of the remaining 2010 edition en-cyclopedias, said Blake Landor, a humanities librarian in the library’s reference section.  The 2003 edition is currently available on the third floor.
The encyclopedia launched on the Internet in 
1994. Users have to pay for a subscription to ac-cess all the Web content.Landor said he has seen a trend of print edi-
tions of books being replaced by electronic ver -
sions. He said he prefers an electronic format for reference books. For other books, he enjoys the print version, he said. He admitted, however, he has recently gotten a Kindle.
Nineteen-year-old visual art studies freshman 
Madeline Calise said the last time she used the print encyclopedia was in middle school.  She said she uses online references for convenience.
Calise previously worked at Patrick Paper -
backs bookstore in Satellite Beach. She said many people are still dedicated to using print books.
“I personally always believe there is a place 
for print,” she said. Popular encyclopedia to move online
Durty Nelly's upped alcohol stock
“Patty’s Day is about good tradition and 
good beer, not about green beer,” Wood said.
He said Durty Nelly’s had to double its 
stock of Irish whiskey and Irish beer to pre-
pare for the influx of customers this Satur -
day.Wood said there will be an outside bar on 
Durty Nelly’s parking lot behind the pub to deal with the masses of people looking to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day. He said only 126 people can fit in the pub.
“Because St. Patty’s is on a weekend, it 
makes it a whole lot crazier,” he said.
Contact Ben Brasch at bbrasch@alligator.org.iriSh , from page 1Colleges ranked by Colleg-
emagazine.com as the top 10    
journalism schools:
•University of Florida
•University of Georgia•Indiana University, Bloomington•University of Kansas•University of Maryland, College Park•University of Missouri at Columbia•University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill•Northwestern University •Ohio University•Syracuse University
“We have long memories of using 
the Encyclopaedia Britannica..."
Blake Landor
humanities librarian in the library’s reference section
mann
 THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
UF’s College of Education jumped 18 
spots in graduate school rankings this 
year.
U.S. News & World Report released 
its rankings Tuesday. Of the 238 educa-tion programs that responded to a survey, UF ranked No. 34. Last year it was ranked 52nd.
The University of Nebraska-Lincoln 
and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill tied with UF. Vanderbilt Uni-versity was ranked No. 1.
Glenn Good, dean of the college, said 
one reason for the jump is the increase in funded research at the school. Also, the school became more selective in accepting doctoral students.
The ranking system is a tool to help 
prospective graduate students find the best school for them, according to U.S. News & World Report. 
Other UF graduate programs also 
made the rankings.
The Hough Graduate School of Busi-
ness came in at No. 44. It tied with Michi-gan State University , Pennsylvania State University , the University of Maryland and Wake Forest University.
The Levin College of Law was ranked 
48th, and three of its nine specialties were in the top 20.
Debra Amirin, college spokeswoman, 
said the law school was pleased with its reputation but not with its overall rank-ing. 
She said last year the report started 
counting graduates enrolled in post doc-torate programs as unemployed.
“We would be at least five to seven 
points higher if they had not counted them,” Amirin said.
Contact Samantha Shavell at sshavell@
alligator.org.UF graduate programs 
make list of best schoolsTYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman was jumped in For -
est Green Apartments on Tuesday after an ar -
gument about a boyfriend.
Gwendolyn A. Clark, Gwennesha M. 
Demps and Tabitha L. Gissendanner cornered 
the woman on the second floor of one of the buildings in the apartment complex at about 11 a.m. Tuesday, according to Gainesville Po-lice. After yelling at Anquinta V . Quinn, 23, the three women beat her up.
Demps, 18; Gissendanner, 20; and Clark, 
who celebrated her 26th birthday at the Ala-chua County Jail, were all arrested on charges of simple battery . The argument began, Quinn told police, because one of the three women used to date her current boyfriend.   
Quinn declined to comment Wednesday.When Quinn was walking to her apartment 
Tuesday morning, the three women chased after her, running up staircases on both sides of the building, according to police. After they yelled at Quinn about her boyfriend, Demps punched her in the face.
Clark and Gissendanner soon jumped in, both punching Quinn several times as a crowd started to form in the courtyard of the complex. Quinn tried to fight back, witnesses said, but she was no match for three women.
After the beating, Quinn had bruises on 
her forehead and cheek, and her arms and hands were scratched.    
The three suspects were not available for 
comment Wednesday night.
The numbers for Demps and Gissendan-
ner provided in the arrest report were disconnected. Clark provided phone numbers for the PACE Cen-ter for Girls and Munchies 420 Cafe.
Shortly after the inci-
dent, Gissendanner wrote on her Facebook page that she was planning to cel-
ebrate Clark’s birthday Tuesday night. GPD arrested all three women at about 6:50 p.m., however.
On Wednesday, Gissendanner took to Fa-
cebook again to write, “IM BACK YEA THEY CANT HOLD US DOWN FOR LONG.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.Three charged in beating of 
woman after argument over man 
Clark
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR101 TOTAL VOTES50% YES
50% NOWednesday’s question: Has your bike 
ever been stolen?Today’s question: Did you complete FAFSA?
Tax Time
New IRS rules hurt 
small firms
As if tax season could not get any more complicat-
ed, frustrating and downright annoying, new rules from the Internal Revenue Service will have people 
around the country even more ticked off the closer it gets to April 15.
According to the Wall Street Journal, “Anyone who takes 
money to help people with their taxes will have to register with the IRS and eventually pass competency tests and sign up for continuing education.”
These new rules, the column argues, will increase prices 
for those seeking counsel on preparing their tax returns.
Why will prices go up?First, these rules — obtaining IRS-approved certification, 
the cost of continuing education classes and the cost of so-called “competency tests” — will add up in costs for tax preparers.
Second, those tax preparers who cannot afford to comply 
with this new licensing scheme will go out of business. As a result, fewer options for tax advice means less competition.
It’s no wonder that big companies like H&R Block and 
professional associations like the American Institute for Cer -
tified Public Accountants support this licensing scheme.
As we have argued before, government officials often 
pitch licensing schemes under the guise of “protecting the consumer.”
For instance, according to an article in Businessweek, 
“IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman said the return-pre-parer program would improve compliance and limit tax fraud.”
However, those who benefit most from licensing schemes 
are those already in the industry, especially those with large firms that can absorb the extra cost.
Smaller firms will have to increase their prices or go out 
of business, while those seeking to start their own indepen-dent tax-preparation firms will have more hoops to jump through.
In the end, it’s the big companies that win and, in this 
case, the taxpayers who lose.
The Institute for Justice, which is suing the IRS for over -
stepping its authority with this new rule, argues that this rule will affect “350,000 tax return preparers, forcing many of them to stop working in the occupation of their choice.”
While many students do not need a CPA or even an in-
dependent tax preparer to help file tax returns, this issue is important for us to know as we enter the business world and face more complicated tax rules.
The IRS already forces us to give up enough of our free-
dom as it stands; it should at least let us have the freedom to choose who helps us navigate its convoluted code.Small talk lacks meaning, value
In the past few days, you’ve most certainly been asked the question, “How was your break?” 
By now, you’ve answered this question so many 
times that you probably have a scripted three-sentence an-
swer that you spout to everyone who asks. 
In tolerating this cyclical phenomenon for so long, I’ve 
come to the conclusion that the vast majority of our daily conversations are, in fact, meaningless.
Yes, many of the daily conversations that I have are just 
that: cyclically meaningless. Every year, it’s the same.
In the beginning of the year the question is always, 
“How was your summer?” Then it becomes, “How are 
classes going?” When midterms and finals roll around, it moves to, “How are your exams?”  Then, after Thanks-giving/Winter/Spring Break, the inquiry becomes, “How was your break?” Eventually, it all comes full circle at the end of the year with, “What are your summer plans?”
Answering these questions over and over again is a ro-
botic social reflex that must be handled in order to move on to more important matters.
But my annoyance is not just limited to these annually 
occurring questions; it’s also to everyday small talk. 
In middle school, I first became acquainted with the 
ubiquitous interaction of, “Hi. How are you?” Answer: “Good. How are you?” Response: “Good.”
I distinctly remember going home and asking my 
mother why people did this — why people conducted this conversational triviality.
First of all, the sheer meaninglessness of the transaction 
baffled me. Like many people, though, I became compla-cent and adopted it into my everyday vernacular. Second of all, it is proper grammar to respond with, “I am well.” Each day, I lose mini-amounts of respect for people who answer with “good.”
Ultimately, these customary greetings are society’s 
way of filling the void of awkward silence that would oth-erwise pervade. But what’s so wrong with si-
lence? 
What’s so wrong about em-
bracing the mutual understand-ing that nobody really cares that “I’m well”? I would be just as happy with an obligatory head nod and be done with it.
Think about it, the only reason 
that awkward silences even exist 
is because it is socially unacceptable to ask more probing and meaningful questions. There are countless occasions where I find myself craving the opportunity to ask people certain things, but I know that either our level of friend-ship or the situation would deem them inappropriate.
Nowadays, any conversation past the obligatory “How 
are you?” is mostly about the other person not being able to contain themselves until you’re done talking. The art of conversation is listening because, let’s be honest, every-body’s favorite topic is himself.
Don’t get me wrong; I understand that this small talk 
is a necessary aspect of our culture and that it’s never go-ing to change. These interactions are people’s attempt to connect and find common ground. I do it just as much as anyone else.
But just because it’s inevitable doesn’t make it valuable. 
For me, these relations are tolerated only because I have no other choice — a learned helplessness to the quotidian tedium of life.
So, from here on out, count the amount of times people 
ask you questions like this. Count the number of times you ask questions like this. Then, count how many times you actually remember the answers. Add it all up, and ask yourself: Is this meaningful?
But anyway, enough about me; how was your break?Garrett Bruno is a political science sophomore at UF. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Garrett Bruno
opinions@alligator.org THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
The issues of taxpayer-funded abortions and the legal-
ity of abortion are being debated and discussed in this election year as they have been in past years.
On campus Wednesday, a strong anti-abortion sentiment 
was present. 
Graphic and disturbing images were presented in the pub-
lic square. 
The idea was that if these images didn’t give individuals 
time to reflect on their own positions on this vital social issue, then nothing would save them from their apathy.
Students must realize the necessity of giving thought to 
this issue. 
The issue is that of life itself. No one is free of its effects.The abortion issue is not uniquely American, but the ap-
parent solution to the issue was present at the American founding. 
This nation was declared independent under the belief that 
”…all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.”
The essence of our political and legal system is grounded 
in the idea that these rights are “self-evident” to all.
The idea that the legal grounds for our nation’s indepen-
dence are not admissible to the issue of abortion is a fallacy. 
Yet it is promoted in today’s popular culture that some-
how an opposition to women being able to choose whether their child has a right to life is an attack on the very health 
and safety of women.  
How selfish a nation have we be-
come that a right that was granted to us is somehow ours to deny to future generations? 
This is not unlike slavery — the idea that the life of an-
other human being is your property. 
You do not have a right to deny yourself life, so on what 
basis do you have a right to deny the life of another?
A popular argument is that, without abortion, an un-
planned pregnancy can restrict an individual’s freedom and opportunities in life. 
The reasoning of this argument is disgusting, claiming 
that your own freedom relies on the denial of freedom to your offspring. 
Children are not a burden but rather a blessing.Some individuals complain about the word “genocide” 
being used to describe the tolerance of abortion in current society. 
It is not unreasonable to associate the smothering of un-
born fetuses in the womb to genocide.
Many governments in history have presided over atro-
cious acts of genocide.
 How does genocide end? Either those who are being killed are completely extermi-
nated, or those in the position to end the genocide hear the cries of the persecuted still living.
The unborn cannot cry out for help, so it is a right and a 
duty of citizens to petition their government for the griev-ances being committed against them. 
Every human has a right to live, and it is the duty of gov-
ernment to secure this right.
Who are you to deny future generations the blessing of a 
human life? 
Who are you to deny future generations the next great in-
novator, researcher, scholar, musician, athlete or president?  
It is my belief and the belief of many who support the 
right of every unborn human to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness that this generation will be condemned for the injustice it has done against future generations.
Austin Swink is a political science sophomore at UF.On Feb. 23, Iran’s supreme 
leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, held a press 
conference on Iran’s nuclear pro-gram. He once again denied alle-gations by the U.S. and Israel that his country was developing nucle-ar weapons and declared “holding these arms is a sin as well as use-less, harmful and dangerous.”
This bold statement received 
little to no press coverage in West-ern media, and it’s understand-able given the caricature that the U.S. and Israeli governments have tried to paint of Iran’s nuclear pro-gram.
On Monday, the Alligator pub-
lished a guest column by Dan Di-Matteo concerning Israel’s stead-fast determination for military action against Iran.
The author took up the main-
stream media’s stance in calling for unwavering U.S. support for any and all Israeli aggression in the Middle East.
The ongoing rhetoric from poli-
ticians and news media consists of detailed lies, which have created the misleading image of a helpless Israel on the verge of destruction at the hands of an irrational and nuclear-capable Iran. The reality, however, is a different picture al-together.
All 16 American intelligence 
agencies sent to inspect Iran’s nuclear intentions reported that the country has neither the inten-tions nor the capability to produce nuclear weapons.
While fear-inducing specula-
tion as to whether Iran will at-tack Israel in the near future sells newspapers and keeps oil prices high, the only acts of aggression carried out in recent history have been by the U.S., Israel and their allies against Iran.
In the past year, Israel and the U.S. have d o n e their best to inten-sify their a s s a u l t 
on Iran. In January, several Ira-nian scientists were assassinated in the streets of Tehran by a dissi-dent group trained, armed and fi-nanced by the Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency.
Twice this year, American mili-
tary vessels have sailed into Irani-an waters, barely a few miles from the country’s coastline, carrying dangerous weapons and massive warplanes. U.S. stealth drones sent to illegally spy on Iranian nuclear facilities were captured 140 miles into Iranian airspace.
Of course, the backdrop of all 
these recent acts of aggression is the debilitating economic sanc-tions that have left Iranian fami-lies devastated and its financial sector crippled.
U.S. intelligence agencies con-
sistently report that Iran isn’t de-veloping nuclear weapons, and yet at the behest of Israel and Western corporations eager to ac-cess Iranian oil, the U.S. continues to paternalistically punish the Ira-nian people for something they simply aren’t doing.
The question Americans need 
to ask themselves amid all this misinformation is who’s really threatening whom.
In 1953, the CIA toppled the 
democratically elected prime min-ister of Iran, Mohammad Mos-sadeq, in Operation Ajax, and in-stalled the Shah, a brutal monarch whose crimes were overlooked because of his willingness to in-expensively sell Iranian oil to the West.
After the Iranian revolution of 
1979, the U.S. imposed the first round of sanctions on Iran in an act of economic aggression. And starting in 1980, the U.S. provid-ed weapons and resources to the Iraqi government for a bloody eight-year war with Iran aimed at toppling the Islamic Republic.
The entirety of DiMatteo’s ar -
ticle focuses on Iran’s alleged ir -
rationality and the danger it poses to Israel and the U.S. The charac-terization of state leaders who re-sist Western imperialism as insane and irrational actors has been a tried-and-true tactic for the U.S. to build support for its own ag-gressive foreign policy. In actual-ity, many military and intelligence officials in the Israeli government are staunchly opposed to war with Iran and view its government as a “very rational regime,” according to former Mossad Chief Meir Da-gan.
We’ve heard an eerily similar 
story before regarding so-called crazy dictators and their willing-ness to use nuclear weapons on Israel and other U.S. allies.
Remember that in 2003, we 
were told that Saddam Hussein ac-tually possessed weapons of mass destruction and that he was ready to use them in a military strike. Those fabrications by the Bush ad-ministration led the U.S. into the second-longest war in American history and left more than a mil-lion Iraqis and more than 4,800 American soldiers dead. Let’s not let the Obama administration lead us into the same quagmire.
When you cut through the B.S. 
and look at the facts, the only un-reasonable fundamentalists are the warhawks in Benjamin Netan-yahu’s regime pushing for another irrational war in the Middle East.
Dave Schneider and Cassia La-
ham are organizers with Students for a Democratic Society.
Iranian ‘threat’ to Israel is misrepresented Column
Dave Schneider
Cassia Laham
Speaking OutDeclaration of       
Independence backs people’s right to lifeGuest column
Austin Swink
Speaking OuttheAvenue    THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
emma's revolution brings back folk protesting: 
Folk music, with a protest twist, is making a comeback. 
Read about emma's revolution on page 12.Gifthorse is a store with a conscious: 
Buy sensible merchandise at Gifthorse, a shop with an artistic twist. Find out more on page 9. The mtvU Woodie Awards air on March . Find out who's nominated on page 12.
DIANA LOPEZ
Avenue Writer
Best known for his energy-filled remix-
es and performances, Laidback Luke will perform at the Vault Nightclub 
on March 27, showcasing his new Speak Up North American bus tour, featuring Wynter Gordon.
Laidback Luke, Lucas Cornelis van 
Scheppingen, released his new single, “Speak Up!” on March 12 through Beatport and will release it on March 27 through all other mediums.
He also released another song called 
“Turbulence” with Steve Aoki, featuring Lil John. It already has more than 13 million views on YouTube.
According to van Scheppingen, this is his 
first time doing such a large-scale bus tour.
“It will be a whole new experience for me. 
It’s more of the rock style of touring, while I normally just tour as a DJ, which is more fo-cused on taking flights and doing high-end clubs,” van Scheppingen said.
He said he is expecting the unexpected of 
this tour.
“I’m tapping into a whole new market 
I’ve never done before, which is the college market. All new everything — let’s go!” he said.
Doors open at 9 p.m. Tickets are $20 online 
at www.wantickets.com/Events/103164/Laidback-Luke/.
Q&A with Laidback Luke
Q: You have a large fan base, especially 
on Twitter. What are some of the greatest tweets you’ve gotten? Or any memorable tweets in general?
A: “Oh wow, such a great question! I get 
about 1,500 mentions a day, so it’s hard for me to remember. One the other week I thought was fun was ‘Luke is so laid-back, he can ride a segway sideways’.”
Q: You were born in the Philippines but 
raised in the Netherlands. What do you con-sider yourself culturally? What languages do you speak?
A: “It’s weird because in the Netherlands, 
I get to be seen as an Asian while in the Phil-ippines, they consider me Western. I do see myself as a half Asian. A lot of my business and down-to-earth side comes from being Dutch, though. My dreamy side and my en-tertainment side comes from being Filipino. My main language is Dutch. My English is getting very Americanized by my New York fiancee at the moment. I speak a bit of Taga-log, French, German and Spanish.”
Q: What can you not travel without?A: “I couldn’t travel without my Macbook. 
It’s my studio, and I basically do everything that has to do with what I do on there.”Q: In a recording studio, which instru-
ment best represents your personality?
A: “Onstage, that would be the air piano. 
I often use one with big paddles that fit all of my hand on one note. My air instruments are pretty on-point. 
I’m still learning the air trumpet, though. 
In a recording studio, I would love to be the compressor, as I like having things sound pumped and as fat as possible.”
Q: I really like your new club concept of 
“Super You & Me.” What inspired it?
A: “Thanks! ‘Super You & Me’ is all about 
having crazy fun. Especially in Europe, EDM (electromic dance music) tends to be taken way too seriously. 
This, while the most fun you will have is 
doing crazy things and having stupid jokes with your friends. 
To me, not only the DJ should be the super -
hero, but the crowd as well. That epic feeling of having your hands up in the air and letting go, the feeling you can take on the world, is that superhero feeling. Dressing up adds a lot to the fun and the experience as well!”Q: Which superheroes have you dressed 
as? Have there been any fan costumes that stand out in your memory?
A: “So you don’t need to necessarily dress 
up like a superhero. You can be anyone you like! I have dressed up as Neo, Ryu, Opti-mus Prime, Black Spiderman, Mixmash Man, Laidback Luke the Superhero and even as an Angry Bird. It’s all about the fun! The crowd comes with crazy costumes, too. I remember one that actually had a robot costume on, like from a Hollywood studio. Looked incred-ible!”
Q: Will this be your first time playing at 
the Ultra Music Festival in Miami? Are you excited to be there this year?
A: “No, this will be my third time, and 
yes, I’m very excited! The vibe at Ultra Music Festival is always incredible. The energy is ri-diculous. Looking forward to it a lot!”
Q: What’s the first thing you do after 
walking off stage after a performance?
A: “I usually take photos or sign auto-
graphs. I think that it’s very important to take time out for the people that support you.”Q: Do you have any preshow rituals?A: “Not really. I always come into the zone 
when I unpack my headphones and get my in-ear gear ready just before I go on.”
Q: How did you switch from being a 
popular graffiti artist to an internationally known DJ?
A: “Wow, well I was never that popular, 
though! I was just a teenager. I see my mu-sic as my graffiti now. I set myself a goal and worked incredibly hard to get there. It took quite some sacrifice and points of almost giv-ing up but I hung in there. The hard work-ing never stops, though. Even at this level it’s all about keeping up. It’s a dream come true, though. I’m very lucky and grateful I can do this!”
Q: Are there any projects that you’re 
looking forward to starting when you’re done touring?
A: “The thing with me is that I’m always 
busy with projects while I’m on the go. So it’s basically a constant flow of new projects and material that will come out. I have lots of big things lined up for the coming year. It’s look-ing to be an exciting 2012!”
Photo courtesy of Ibiza Spotlight
Laidback Luke, or Lucas Cornelis van Scheppingen, will be in town on March 27.
Laidback Luke brings Speak Up tour to Gainesvillemusic  RACHEL CROSBY
Avenue Writer
On a corner of North Main 
Street sits a shop filled with guilt-
free finds. From TOMS sneakers to custom made T-shirts, Gift-horse offers a mix of respected brands and locally designed items that are easy on the wallet and the conscience.
Gifthorse sets itself apart from 
other stores by selling strictly “sweatshop free” apparel. Every-thing for sale is made morally and ethically.
“I don’t want to be involved 
with something I’m not proud of,” said Roberto Evans, 29-year-old Gifthorse owner and Gainesville native.
“Good human conditions are 
important,” said Evans. “Values are important.”
For Evans, that philosophy 
started after a visit to Honduras, where half his family lives. There, in a rural part of the countryside, he witnessed coffee farms and sweatshops firsthand.  
“It was a weird, surreal mo-
ment for me but a defining one,” Evans said. “You always hear about it, but you never see it. It hit close to home.”
When Evans returned to 
Gainesville, he started his first business, Berto’s. An art gallery, Berto’s allowed Evans and local artists to showcase their pieces. 
It was there that Evans real-
ized he enjoyed expressing his art through graphic T-shirts, and he began selling them for the first time.
“I like the creativity in clothes,” 
he said.
In expressing that creativity, 
Evans opened his second business: The Exchange. Half art gallery, half clothing store, The Exchange gave Evans the opportunity to expand. He sold his uniquely de-signed graphic T-shirts and show-cased additional artwork.
The Exchange did well, but 
Evans saw an opportunity in the location of his next business: Gifthorse. When he opened up shop on Main Street, clothing be-came his focus, and his art studio moved upstairs.
“My life is very much of a pro-
gression of things,” he said. “It kind of evolves.”
Evans brought in more design-
ers, both local and up-and-com-ing, but not before he confirmed that they were priced modestly and produced ethically.
“Paying attention to the morals 
of the company is first and fore-most,” Evans said. 
“Some brands are vegan, some 
support specific causes. I like the idea of something being reused and repurposed.”
The same attention to morals 
applies to the larger, respected brands that he sells as well. Evans sells items from companies known for their ethical production stan-dards, including Alternative Ap-parel, Lifetime Collective, Ethletic and, most notably, TOMS.
“Gifthorse is so unique,” said 
Matt McEwen, a 22-year-old San-ta Fe college student and long-time customer. “It’s one of those cool little hidden treasures of Gainesville.”
Because Gifthorse explicitly 
sells clothing, Evans is consider -
ing projecting video art and short films by local directors while cus-tomers shop in an effort to keep up the creativity.
“There’s not really a place for 
(videos) to be appreciated right now,” Evans said. “I think it’d be cool.”
Gifthorse carries both men and 
women’s apparel. Prices range from $5 to $50, depending on the product and brand, with vintage items averaging less than $15.
“It took three and a half years 
to get the ball rolling,” Evans said, “But it was worth it.”
If you have questions or would 
like to submit a video to be pro-jected inside Gifthorse, visit gift-horsedowntown.com or email gifthorsedowntown@gmail.com THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Rachel Crosby / Alligator
Find TOMS sneakers and other morally sound products at Gifthorse. Support local designers and bigger 
companies that showcase high ethical standards.
Visit Gifthorse on North Main Street for a unique experience
Shop sells ethical wares� More than a third of freshmen will 
change majors.
RAKSHEEN AYAZ
Avenue Writer
Choosing the right major is difficult, 
and some students find it through trial-
and-error. At UF, 38 percent of students change their major by the end of their freshman year and 61 percent by the end of their sophomore year.
Claire Rice, 19, sophomore, changed her 
major three times during freshman year. She switched from biology to health sci-ence to nuclear and radiological sciences before ending up in graphic design.
“I went through a lot of majors thinking 
I knew what I wanted to do based on ad-vice that my parents gave me when grow-ing up,” she said.
Rice didn’t see herself in the health sci-
ence or engineering field. She was interest-ed in it, but she struggled with the critical tracking courses required for science and math majors, such as calculus and chemis-try. Over the summer, Rice explored other opportunities. Rice changed her major to graphic design, something she is more passionate about.  
“I always thought of the health field as 
more practical and I’d always have a job,” she said. “But with graphic design, this is a risk that I have taken: to do something that I love and practice.”
Not every major is for everyone, and 
each is difficult for different people, she said.  Rice now looks forward to her art classes. “I wouldn’t take organic chemis-try,” she said. “Those people excelling in organic chemistry wouldn’t be able to do what I’m doing, either.”
Rice is hopeful that if she works hard, 
she will get a job in the graphic design field. She hopes to work in the video gam-ing industry and design clothing, movie posters and CDs. If she struggles in the graphic design field, she is willing to give health science another try.
“If anything, I can always go back and 
get a degree in the health field,” she said. “I like what the research engineers do, too.”
Though there is often pressure from 
parents to opt for a professional degree, students in the United States are encour -
aged to change their major. In other coun-tries, students complete the degree in which they enrolled during high school.“In Ireland, you have to know what you 
have to do before college,” said Blaithin Henehan, 21, a journalism student from Ireland. “You don’t have the liberty to choose once you’re in college.”
Henehan ranked the programs she was 
interested in and got accepted into her eighth choice, journalism. She said it is unlikely that students change their career paths, and they usually stick to what they are studying.
Nikole Nelson, 21, is a premed student 
who has been a microbiology major since the start of her college career. She came into college aspiring to be a doctor.
A strong premed candidate, she is ex-
pected to be well-grounded and have high GPA and MCAT scores.
“They don’t want that geeky kid who 
doesn’t do anything but study,” Nelson said.
In addition to her classes, she partici-pates in research eight hours a week, vol-unteers at Shands three hours a week, is an officer for the UF Microbiology Club and is a part of the Belly Gators dance team.
Students are often discouraged and 
decide not to be premed by the hefty weed-out science classes such as physics and chemistry. Nelson didn’t enjoy those classes when she took them.
“I don’t see myself actually ever using 
chemistry or organic chemistry,” she said. “They give you those classes to assess your critical-thinking skills.”
Nelson said that, with her busy sched-
ule, she can get annoyed when her friends are going out partying and she is staying in to study.
Nelson would likely have given up pre-
med already, but she enjoys seeing how she can change people’s lives. If she doesn’t get accepted into medical school after her undergraduate years, she will take a year off and apply again the following year.
“Taking a year off isn’t entirely bad be-
cause you can live your life before spend-ing years being extremely busy in medical school,” she said. “If I didn’t get in, I might travel and bit. I’d also study harder for the MCAT or take an extra class to show I’m interested.”
“I went through a lot of majors 
thinking I knew what I wanted to do 
based on advice that my parents 
gave me when growing up.”
Claire Rice
UF sophomoreKIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer
If it weren’t for the smell of slow-
cooked pork, you might walk past 
it.
It’s the aroma of fresh-brewed 
coffee, baked breads and pressed sandwiches that draws passers-by inside. For most, Flaco’s Cuban Bak-ery and Coffee Spot offers a great place to chow down. For others, Flaco’s offers the taste of home.
Sara Puyana, 30, is a co-owner 
of Flaco’s at 200 W. University Ave. Her husband, Tim Darnell, is the other co-owner. It opened in 2006.
The location used to be a rim 
shop. No one thought it would be-come a restaurant, Puyana said.
Flaco, in Spanish, means “skin-
ny” or “thin.” The restaurant is named after Darnell because he is a skinny man, Puyana explained.
Puyana was born in Colombia, 
but grew up in Hialeah. She moved to Gainesville in 2000 to study edu-cation at UF. She graduated in 2006.
“I was going to be a teacher — 
still hasn’t happened,” she joked.
In Colombia, her father owned 
a jewelry store. It was burglarized three times before he decided to move with Puyana and the rest of their family.
He was tired of starting from 
scratch repeatedly , but he had to do it again when they moved to Mi-ami. He went from being a business owner to driving limos.
“That’s just kind of how Miami 
is, people moving from other coun-tries and starting from nothing,” she said.
She has been around the kitchen 
her entire life. Her mother, Marty Avila de Puyana, has always been a good cook and taught her daughter the tricks of the trade. She also in-fluenced Puyana’s outlook on food. At every family gathering, Avila de Puyana is the one who does all the cooking.
“Food brings people together, 
keeps those relationships strong and creates happiness,” Puyana translated for her mother.
Puyana learned to cook Cuban 
cuisine from growing up in Miami.
“I was raised around Cuban 
food and Cuban people,” she said. “My godparents are Cuban.”  At the time Flaco’s opened, there 
were not many Cuban places in town, she said.
“There wasn’t anything causal 
and fast that students went to.”
In Miami, she remembers going 
to Chico’s, a 24-hour Cuban restau-rant where people would go after they were done partying. One time as a child, she went there with her parents for breakfast and some res-taurant patrons still had their make-up and outfits on from the night before. They were still dancing, par -tying and drunk, she recalled.
“My mom was like, ‘Oh my 
God,’” Puyana said. “That stuff is all over Miami, and there wasn’t re-ally a place like that here.”
Puyana also originally started 
Flaco’s to give her mother a job so she could provide for her father. In 2004, he had a heart attack. In 2005, he got into a car accident. Although it wasn’t a bad accident, she said, he could not drive or work anymore.
“It was a choice the family had to 
make,” she said. “I couldn’t do it on a teacher’s salary.”
The menu was created by the 
collective effort of Puyana, her hus-band, her mom, employees and cus-tomers.
She created the Sunshine, a 
pressed sandwich with tempeh, veggies, Swiss, pickles, mayo, mus-tard and onions, for people request-ing a vegetarian option. She named it after her newborn nephew, whom she called Sunshine.
Her friend went to Miami and re-
turned raving about a turkey, straw-berry preserve and cream cheese sandwich she enjoyed.
“It’s called an Elena Ruz, I know 
that, but Jill was the one that told me that I should put it on the menu, so it’s called the Jill’s here,” she said.
All the pork is cooked fresh daily. 
It takes four hours in the oven, she said. The bread is also baked daily , as are the pastries. 
Last week, Flaco’s sold 1,500 
sandwiches, which is average for the busy restaurant.
Puyana’s mom does most of the 
cooking at Flaco’s. However, half-way through the first year she got burned by a pan of pork. 
She could not walk for a month 
and a half because the burns were all over her feet and legs, so Puyana began cooking, too.
“My favorite thing about being in 
the kitchen with [Mom] is her work ethic and how she pushes you,” she said. “She’s a great example.”
Flaco’s has expanded to a second 
location at the UF Plaza on Univer -
sity Avenue. It should open late next week, she said.
“I was just thinking that we were 
going to be a little hole in a wall that wouldn’t really have a line out the door at 2 in the morning,” she said.
Flaco’s brought Cuban food as a family affair to Gainesvillerestaurants10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
Kiera Wright-Ruis / Alligator
The family of Flaco’s made cooking good food a family tradition from Miami to Gainesville.
Time to make a tough decision and choose your major THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
NICOLE LA HOZ
Avenue Writer
Before, there was caroling about the number 12. Today, 
there’s camping on the North Lawn for 12 hours. It’s all for the 
sake of cancer research.
From noon to midnight Friday, UF’s student improvisation 
troupe Theatre Strike Force is hosting its seventh annual 12 Hours of Improv event.
About 80 active TSF members put together 30 teams to put 
on a 12-hour improv show to raise money for Relay for Life. The event is free and takes place in Orange & Brew. 12 Hours ends with a two-hour Gator Nights show.
While there’s no entry fee, donation jars will be located at 
each table, as well as a large bin on the Orange & Brew stage.
TSF Philanthropy Chair Jessica Sheldon said each of the 30 small teams decides what it wants to do during its time slot.
12 Hours includes regularly cast TSF members, short- and 
long-form improv and sketch comedy throughout the day.
“It obviously makes us feel good doing something for the 
community besides improv,” Sheldon said. “But in the spring, when we’re doing all these fundraisers for Relay, everyone’s 
working toward one main goal.”
The TSF Relay team has raised nearly 
$4,500 through its team’s fundraisers so far this year, Sheldon said. Date Auction, an event that auctions off members, brings in the most money. However, 12 Hours is TSF’s biggest event.
TSF President Liz Anderson hopes the 
club breaks $1,000 in donations tomorrow. The team earned $682 at last year’s event.“We’ve gotten close but never made it past the thousand 
mark,” she said.
After a TSF member showed interest in starting a Relay for 
Life team “years ago,” Anderson said the club found out it was a simple way for members to bond and raise as much money as possible for the American Cancer Society.
“It doubled as being a great cause and great way to bring the 
club together,” Anderson said. Even for the most experienced TSF members, 12 hours of nonstop comedy brings exhaustion and sometimes the need to pull random stunts.
Last year, members took audience requests, seldom refus-
ing what they asked. That included people taking off clothes.
Anderson wants to get that vibe back for Friday’s event but 
without the scandal.
“You never know,” she said. “It’s improv. Anything hap-
pens.”Watch Theatre Strike Force perform 12 hours of improv
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
The 8th annual mtvU Woodie Awards will take over the 
South by Southwest (SXSW) music conference in Austin, 
Texas, today. For the first time, mtvU has teamed up with SXSW to bring music lovers a live awards show complete with performances by nominees.
According to Eric Conte, the 2012 executive producer 
of the mtvU Woodie Awards, the name stems from a tradi-tion that started at a record label where the label would try and recognize artists who were putting out “amazing re-cords.” As an informal way of thanking performers on the label who hadn’t gone gold or platinum, they were given a “wood” rating instead.
Instead of a stuffy award show, mtvU is the premiere 
event in the up-and-coming music scene. The Woodies is an annual awards show that represents the voice and opin-ion of more than just judges. Anyone can vote for the nomi-nee they believe should win each Woodie.
Airing on MTV on Sunday at 8 p.m., the Woodie Awards 
is “a musical moment of truth honoring the artists who are infiltrating the music landscape,” according to the mtvU website.
This year, there will be a new category added to the list 
of awards. Woodie of the Year, Breaking Woodie and Best Video Woodie will all be awarded as usual, but there will also be a new Woodie up for grabs: EDM Effect Woodie. This Woodie was added to the list in an effort to recognize artists who are bringing a new fan base to electronic dance music.
“It would have been irresponsible not to; [EDM] is huge 
right now. For us to not acknowledge it…would be a huge mistake for us,” Conte said of mtvU’s decision to add the award.
The nominees include Avicii, Benny Benassi and Martin 
Solveig. Included in the list is Steve Aoki, nominated for “Turbulence,” a song he worked on with Laidback Luke 
and Lil Jon.
“The state of EDM in America is bub-
bling. We’re at a really interesting time for EDM — popular culture is now seeing it,” Aoki said. “It’s just a start, the dance floor has been around for a very long time.”
Also nominated for a Woodie is Best 
Coast. The indie-rock band from California is nominated for Best Video Woodie of the Year.
Best Coast’s video “Our Deal” is up against other acts 
like M83 and Gotye for the award. The video was directed by Drew Barrymore. Best Coast lead singer Bethany Cosen-tino credits Barrymore with almost all aspects of the video from conceptualization to execution.
“I just thought that it really sounded like a beautiful 
story that fit with a beautiful song,” Cosentino said.The music video is a cinematic experience that features 
great pop culture references, including “Romeo and Juliet,” “The Outsiders” and “West Side Story.” Cosentino says she enjoyed these smart references, and they played a part in why she agreed to Barrymore’s vision so easily, though she also said that the heartbreaking ending to the music video did surprise her.
“It was amazing to work with Drew and to have this 
video be recognized by so many people. To now be nomi-nated is a really awesome opportunity. I’m planning my acceptance speech in my free time,” she said.
Ohio natives Walk the Moon are nominated for what is 
possibly the biggest Woodie Award, the Breaking Woodie Award. This Woodie is awarded to the best emerging art-ist of the year. They face some steep competition, with 21 other nominees who include Lana Del Rey, The Weeknd, Fake Problems, A$AP Rocky and Porter Robinson.
“We kind of feel like we are the underdogs in the cat-
egory for sure. There are so many bigger artists in there, so we’re pretty honored to be a part of the group,” said Nicholas Petricca, lead singer of Walk the Moon.  
Walk the Moon is currently touring with Young the 
Giant, but Petricca said the band is excited to attend the awards show at SXSW. They will also be performing at the festival, which he regarded as “summer camp for adults” for the second year in a row.  
“Vote, even if it’s not for us. Vote for people,” Petricca 
urged.
For more information, or to vote, visit www.mtv.com/
ontv/woodieawards/2012/.KENDRICK BROWN
Avenue Writer
Folk music became a generation’s voice of 
reason during one of the most politically charged 
eras in American history.  Though the genre has since lost its place in today’s mainstream music, it remains a staple among activist communities.
Enter emma’s revolution.The award-winning female duo, comprised of 
Pat Humphries and Sandy O, has become an in-ternationally renowned act because of its songs promoting peace and universal human rights. Covering issues important to women and mem-bers of the LGBT community earned the group the opportunity to perform for the Dalai Lama while receiving critical acclaim from folk music legends like Pete Seeger.
On March 18, the two will bring their sharp 
wit and passionate vernacular to Gainesville’s Civic Media Center to promote their latest al-bum, “Revolutions Per Minute.”  
Their knack for using humor to attract atten-
tion to societal issues has earned them compari-sons to Rachel Maddow and Jon Stewart and has opened doors to new collaborators, like Jethro Tull drummer Doane Perry.
“I consider myself very fortu-
nate to have had the great pleasure and  
honor of working with Pat and Sandy over the last few years,” Perry said. “Their music is natural  
and organic and their innate artistic sen-sibility has the power to communicate  
with intelligence, wit, grace, subtlety and hu-mor.”
This mix of qualities has given the duo’s mu-
sic a distinct flair and made it popular among Occupy Wall Street protesters.  Winning awards such as the John Lennon Songwriting Contest has propelled Humphries and O to one of the most respected musical acts providing social commen-tary of grassroots movements.
Radio producer Jacob Dean works for pro-
grams, like The Thom Hartmann Show, that dis-cuss the same controversial topics that emma’s revolution covers.  Dean considers emma’s revo-lution’s music essential to the movements of the day.
“I love the grassroots, organic message that 
emma’s revolution delivers with each new al-bum,” Dean said. “It’s truly a must-listen for any activist today. You’ll become an instant fan just like I did.”
Songs like their international peace anthem 
“Peace, Salaam, Shalom” were created in re-sponse to the 9/11 terrorist attacks to stop the ac-cepted prejudice that began to become the norm in its aftermath. Doing so has made them fixtures at rallies and concerts promoted by human rights groups and nonprofit organizations.
The unit has been sought out to bring its mu-
sic to events like the World Culture Open in Ko-rea, Festival of Politics in Scotland, Vancouver Folk Music Festival, the UN World Environment Day and other rallies in Chile, England, Israel, Palestine, Nicaragua and Cuba.  
The duo’s constantly hectic tour schedule of 
more than 200 concerts a year is due as much to the political change that its rhetoric inspires as it is the inclination to dance that its music in-spires.  
Folk DJ Rich Warren attributes emma’s revolu-
tion’s success to its ability to deliver a “dynamic performance with a social conscience.”
“They continue (to prove) that great topical 
and protest music is very much alive,” said War -
ren.
Political activist Emma Goldman’s declara-
tion, “If I can’t dance, I don’t want to be part of your revolution,” has served as the slogan by which emma’s revolution has delivered its mu-sic, ensuring that listeners are having a good time while remaining socially conscious.
Sunday’s concert starts at 7 p.m. Tickets are 
available in advance for $12 at the Civic Media Center, online at www.emmasrevolution.com and $15 at the door.12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
Photo courtesy of  Irene Young and emma’s revolution
Visit the Civic Media Center on Sunday to listen to “Revolutions Per Min-
ute,” the latest album from emma’s revolution.
emma’s revolution brings folk music back to social protest
MtvU Woodie Awards expand with festival status and new categories
Lana Del Rey, Gotye among nomineesmusicTHURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
Come Get LUCKY at LEX…….
OPEN HOUSE THIS SAT!!!
12-5pm
Come view All-Inclusive private suites
Free upgrade to a 3/3 !!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
Raffle for a $100 Gift Card!!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
THE POLOS
NOW-ROOMATE MATCHING on 3/3’s
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDEDNO MOVE IN COST.WE DO SEMISTER LEASINGFrances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    9-28-12-85-1
Furn. 1BR/1BA in a 4/4 with 3 other girls.
$350/mo. utilities included, Countryside Condos. avl. Mar 1. Jim -cell 305-664-1680, work 305-852-4044.   3-27-12-10-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED 3BR/BR Apt Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave. Across from Law School
$1650 - Special spring rate. 4BR/2BA
W/D, DW, Cent AC/Heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-30-12-53-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2BR/1BA Sun Key units starting at $550
2BR/1.5BA Sun Harbor units starting at $575
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    3-30-12-52-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   3-21-12-35-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   3-30-12-44-2
Trend's Student Rentals of the Month!
Biven's North - Huge 3BR Lakefront
The Lofts - 3BR condo on Univ Ave
Near Law School - 3/2 1,907 sf
Text "Trend" to 313131
Trend4Rent.com
4-25-74-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor units $525
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
1bed/1bath units starting at $475
2bed/2bath units starting at $550
Reduced Deposits for Full Time Grads!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720/352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183. 1BR/BA Suite Also Avail $375/mo   3-22-11-26-2SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & 
Butler Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 3-19-11-50-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
2BR2BA  Condo  in Turkey Creek
Carpet, Dishwasher, Laundry Hkups,Close to Alachua & Gainesville 11426 NW 67th Terrace  $800/Mo  
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF, 
Carpet, Central H & Air, CarpetLaundry., Inclds Wtr and Swg. $800/MoCan reserve for Summer or Fall now.Grad II 1236 SW 4th Avenue
2BR 1BA Apt Robert Obrien Apts
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat Gas HtNear Sams Club/Walmart  $500/Mo2901 NW 14th Street
2BR 1BA House in Oaks of Kanapaha
4845 SW 57th Drive $725/MoCarpet, Central H & Air, Laundry hkupsOff Archer Rd. 3-16-12-19-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
$19.99  to sign and $100 credit
4/4’s starting @ $329
Text “SANTAFE” to 47464 for more!
Now Leasing for FALL!
4-25-12-43-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099       3-27-12-20-2
1.5 miles to UF in NW Gville. Luxury 2bd/2ba 
condo in small community: walk-in closets, W/D, vaulted ceilings, balcony, 1410 sqft. Built 2006. $900/month. Pets OK. 359-1112 or katewallis83@yahoo.com. Avail. March 1    3-21-12-15-2.
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laundry 372-3783    3-29-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    3-29-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   3-29-12-20-2
Very vice 3/3 Rockwood $800/m
lg bedroom, closet and nice bathClose to UF, I-75 and bus routesall appliance inc(washer & dryer)Call Jared at (941)737-6997   3-19-12-12-2
4BR/4BA Beautifully Renovated condo spa-
cious kitchen, living area, and bedrooms par-tially furnished. W/D in unit. Great bus rts ten min to UF & shopping. $325/ room. Must rent all rooms at same time. Call(941)-232-1960    4-13-12-31-2Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-16-12-39-2
Cute HOUSES for Aug 1
View at www.10houses.comCent H/A, W/D providedQuiet Areas Bike to UF352-316-0154 nancy@10houses.com   3-22-12-10-2
DUCKPOND DUPLEX $700- big oak tree, 
UF near, busline, carport, immaculate, carpet, 
2br/1ba, WD hookup, CHA, fans, DW, burglar bars, postj@bellsouth.net; 352 284 3873; 352 376 0080. Prefer grads/quiet adults.   4-4-12-19-2
***5 BEDROOM HOUSE***
Walk to class! Lots of parking. Wood floors. 
Clean. Available August 1st. Contact John 
@ 561-866-8234 for further info.
3-16-5-2
3BR/2BA CHARMING 1950's HOUSE
Walk/bike to UF. Small pet ok. W/D, $1295/mo. Avail August 1st.OPEN HOUSE March 17th, 11:00am - 3:00pm. 352-371-0601   410 NW 26th St.    3-16-12-5-2
Beautiful 2-story house. 2.5 miles from UF. 
5BR/2.5BA 2400sq.ft. on large treed lot. Very quiet neighbrhd. H/W & tile floors, ceiling fans, W/D, ref, stove, dishwasher. $1600/mo & security deposit. 727-686-1404    3-20-12-5-2
3 Bed House $795/mo available now &
Aug. Central AC, wooden floors, w/d
hook-ups, and a vintage style walking
distance to campus and downtown.
University Ave & NW 8th st area. By Leo
706 Call now! 352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
3-27-12-10-2
***WALK OR BIKE TO UF ***
3/2 vintage home or 2/2 apt includes park-
ing, available August 2012. Call Carolyn 352-538-3556 or email alligatoralley@cox.net4-10-12-20-2
2BR/2.5BA LUXURY CONDO
1/2 mile from campus. On busline. Free in-
ternet. W/D, clubhouse. $825/mo. Call 352-332-8841    3-27-12-10-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
               ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100               ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500               ●/3 house 3514 nw 7 pl $1500               ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15003-20-12-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
DON’T WAIT
TO PLACE 
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 25th.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT 
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Short-term sublease until (now-July) Hunters 
Crossing complex (NW G'ville Millhopper) 2BR/2FB + Den, patio, cathedral ceilings, walk in closets, W/D connect (rentals avail-able), garage optional, townhouse style, (separate entrance) exercise gym, pool, hot tub, sauna, racquet ball-basketball-tennis courts, sand volleyball, playground! Pets al-lowed (2 pet maximum). No limit on size of pets. $911 saving $239 (regular lease amount is $1,150). www.hunterscrossing.com for pic-tures; 352-262-5899 or sisterkatrina@yahoo   3-19-12-4-3
University House Summer Sublease
$550/mo - 1BR/1BA in a 3BR/3BAAll inclusive and fully furnished6 blocks to UFContact 941-286-8316   3-19-4-3
LIVE ACROSS FROM CAMPUS $770 - bus 
line, ample parking, carpet, 3br/2ba, pool, 24hr maint, quiet neighbors, WD hookup, pets OK jaesonaeolis@gmail.com; 352 274 7481   3-16-12-3-3
Two bedroom two bath apartment available 
for sublease available on April 1 2012 at Stoneridge Apartments For information call Carlos 954-732-3962 or Jorge 954-594-9878    3-23-12-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDEDNO MOVE IN COST.WE DO SEMISTER LEASINGFrances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    9-28-12-85-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 6/1/12    4-11-12-20-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   8-15-58-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-1297 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $699902 TOYOTA CAMRY $699904 CHEVY ASTRO $6999352-375-9090    4-25-65-1204 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $799902 HONDA ODYSSEY $799901 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,99906 SATURN ION $11,99907 FORD MUSTANG $12,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
1999 Volvo V70 Wagon, Runs and drives 
great, well maintained with all scheduled maintenance/oil changes, Ice cold A/C, New tires with recent oil change and alignment 157K $3500.00 OBO. 352-214-3741   3-19-11-5-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  3-23-12-74-13
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.comThis newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising 
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator 
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be available to work Summer C.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are wel-
come to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
Sales Asst/Customer Svc Rep
Apply in person at
Tomlinson Motor Company, 3580 N Main St$10/hr, part time 15-20 hrs/wk - flexible.     3-15-12-16-14
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer day camp pro-gram. Positions in the camp are available in our Pre-Kindergarten, Kindergarten, and our elementary school age day camps offered at Oak Hall. A total of 8 FT and PT counselor positions plus 2 FT Head Counselor positions are available for the summer. Individuals for the day camp should be available to work daily from June 11-July 27. Interested ap-plicants should submit a resume to Maggie Martin via e-mail at mmartin@oakhall.org by March 16th. Interview information regarding group interview on March 17th will be sent out upon receipt.   3-16-12-15-14
!!ATTN SMOKERS!! You're needed to par-
ticipate in a study conducted by the UF Smoking Lab assessing effects of exercise on cravings, withdrawal, and/or smoking. Compensation provided!! Call 336-406-3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    3-23-19-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    3-20-12-14-14
ATTORNEY WITH MINIMUM TWO YEARS 
EXPERIENCE IN ESTATE PLANNING & BUSINESS LAW wanted for prestigious Sarasota law firm. Please send resume to sarasotalaw@yahoo.com    4-11-12-30-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! 
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office,
Rockwall, Cheer, Dance, Clean/Maint., 
Drivers, B-day Parties, Comm. Events. Visit 
suncountrysports.com/jobs.html for info and to 
download our required application today!
3-16-12-5-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and 
Reliable 371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G    3-30-17-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481    3-21-12-10-14
Clerical help wanted $10/hr. Mostly online 
typing. Basic computer competency required. A little phone. Work from home. Email ex-cusa.moi@gmail.com Leave msg 352-356-8870 Will get back to you.   3-16-5-14
NEED URGENT HELP WITH COLLECTING 
PETITIONS SIGNATURES. CALL DAVID AT 386-517-3950 FOR RATES.    3-15-11-4-14
Retired Professor seeking part-time secre-
tary. Call 352-335-3843    3-16-11-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with meal plan sales from May – August on UF campus. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experiences a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com   3-16-4-14
Need Live In Caregiver for elderly man in 
SW Gainesville. Must be able to pass a back ground check (no criminal history) and a drug screen. Compensation: Room/board, small salary, paid vacation, most weekends and evenings off, and other negotiable compen-sation. Call: 352-226-5265    3-19-12-5-14
Weight Loss Sales Consultant
Both part and full time positions available. 
Extremely satisfying and fulfilling dream 
job in a vibrant and uplifting environment 
helping people get healthy. Please e-mail 
resume to chrissie.admin@emetabolic.com
3-16-12-3-14Seeking a personal assistant.i.e., miscella-
neous errands, phone calls, resolving minor issues, mailings, bill payment and general organizing.You will be paid $550/week send your resume to :lin.da2@aol.com 786-519-3572    3-27-12-10-14
Andrea is leaving to get married. Busy 
law firm seeks F/T admin/legal assistant. Dependable w/great typing and proofreading skills. Exp. w/ Word & Excel. Spanish speak-ing a plus! Pay DOE. Send resume tocarrillolawoffice@gmail.com     3-27-10-14
Sedentary adults needed to participate 
in a study conducted by the UF Get Up and Go Initiative assessing the accuracy & ease of use of an advanced pedometer. COMPENSATION provided! Call 336-406-3706 or email fitbit10000@gmail.com   3-23-8-14
FISH LOVERS WANTED! Excellent sales 
opportunity for someone who loves tropical fish and likes to work with people. Training program, advancement possibilities, flex-ible hours. Work in a clean modern store with great people. Bring resume with ref-erences to Aquatropics, 2100 SW34th Street,Gainesville.   3-22-12-7-14
WAITPERSONS
Evenings & weekends. Experienced & 
friendly. Apply in person, NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St.   3-20-12-5-14
Students needed for part-time sales, $10-
$12/hr., no experience required, flexible schedules, must have good communication skills, located in Creekside Mall, call Mike 352-533-2201   3-27-10-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   3-27-10-14
Volunteer for Money
Participants needed for one-hour focus group. Must be 18 years or older and attend UF.  We want your perspective on mental health. Completely CONFIDENTIAL. Will receive $20 UF Bookstore gift card and free pizza. Email GatorWellProjects@mail.ufl.edu with subject line Focus Group Volunteer.   3-30-12-14
Programmer Needed
Dilinky, Inc. is looking for an individual to 
create and program a website. Contact Us 
at Help@Dilinky.com.
3-23-5-14
Info Tech, Inc. - Info Tech, Inc. is a mar-
ket leader in software for infrastructure 
construction management. Please visit 
our website to apply for open positions:
http://www.infotechfl.com/apply
3-21-12-5-14
Marketing Project Manager wanted for 
Gainesville web design company. Web de-sign/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    3-23-12-7-14One serious hardworking and trustworthy UF student. Gen or const help, exp w/electrical & plumbing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy lifting. Familiar w/ Sketchup or AutoCAD. PT flex hrs. $7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183     3-19-12-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    3-23-12-20-15HAPPY 2 YEAR ANNIVERSARY CUBE!
                          Love Always,                                                  BEAN3-15-1-19
HAPPY HOUR @ CHAMPAGNE SALON
$10 Eyebrow Threading
1109 W. University Ave. 215-2873   3-20-5-
20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
AMERICAN BULLDOG PUPS
UKC Registered. Top bloodlines. 1M, 1F. 
White w/spots. $200 each. 386-362-2451 ,gatorlandkennels@windstream.net   3-21-12-5-24NEED A PASSPORT?
US Passport Acceptance Facility3030 Radio Road across fromLakeside Residential Complex9am-3pm, M-F, Ph 352-392-1134    3-20-12-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Special February and March Rates- $99 
Advanced Cardiac Life Support and $35 Basic Life Support(BLS)(CPR).American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.    3-20-12-18-16
HYPNOSIS $23.95
quit smoking, diet, sleep better, stress, memory improvement, and test anxiety. go to www.hypnosisclassestoday.com for info and pre-pay    3-21-12-10-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
More Content Online
Florida’s softball team and women’s tennis team 
were both in action Wednesday. For full stories on 
how they did, please visit alligatorSports.org.alligatorSports NCAA Tournament Podcast
Check alligatorSports.org and your iTunes feed later today for 
our podcast previewing Florida’s trip to Omaha. Neb., for the start of the NCAA Tournament on Friday against Virginia.Caroline Chesterman scored five goals as Florida defeated Stony Brook 17-4 on Wednesday. Former UF midfielder Janine Hillier was held scoreless.See story online at alligatorSports.org.  
David Carr / Alligator
Freshman guard Brad Beal has led UF in scoring (15.1 points per game) 
and rebounding (7.2 per game) during the second half of the season.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
 Five months ago, by his own admission, Brad 
Beal was comfortable with deferring to the rest of the 
Gators’ veteran guards after four years of carrying the scoring load in high school.  
But he is now a different kind of freshman than the 
one who first stepped into Florida’s starting lineup in November.
“Now I have a team that you can throw the ball to 
Pat (Young) and get 20 any night or Kenny (Boynton), Erving (Walker) or (Erik) Murphy,” Beal said. “Just about anybody on our team can score the ball, so it is just a big relief off of me transitioning into college.”
Though he was one of Billy Donovan’s highest-
rated recruits in recent memory, Beal said he didn’t want to be stereotyped as the hyped first-year player who comes in thinking he owns a team.
As the Gators lost teammates to injury, and defeats 
piled up down the stretch, Donovan began to ask more out of the 6-foot-3 guard. When Will Yeguete was sidelined for the season on Feb. 21, Beal slipped into the rotation at power forward, even though he is a natural shooting guard and was already playing out of position as a small forward.
It was also the right moment for Beal to stop mind-
ing his manners as much around his teammates.
“[Coach Donovan] said it’s time to stop trying to 
not step on everybody’s toes, he said it’s time to be-come more of a leader and start pushing guys to get better,” Beal said. “And really just taking more of a leadership role.”
Heading into his first NCAA Tournament, Beal 
has arguably become the most important facet of the Gators’ offense and the key to whether they can keep pace on the boards.
In the second half of the season, Beal has led No. 
7-seed Florida in both scoring with 15.1 points per game and rebounding at 7.2 per game.
“The one guy that I would say that’s probably 
rebounding at the level that’s impacted our team, I think is Beal,” Donovan said. “I think he’s really, re-ally rebounded the ball well.”
As a precursor to Florida’s first-round matchup 
Friday in Omaha, Neb., against 10th-seeded Virginia, Beal enjoyed a stellar Southeastern Conference Tour -
nament in which he scored 36 points in two games, including 20 against top-ranked Kentucky.
For his efforts, Beal made the SEC All-Tournament Beal taking charge of Gators before tourney
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Mike Gillislee no longer has to work his 
way out of the shadows of Chris Rainey and 
Jeff Demps.
With the Gators’ former running back 
tandem focusing on careers away from Florida football, Gillislee, a senior, finally has a chance to step into the spotlight as he entered Wednesday’s first spring practice atop the depth chart at running back for the Gators.
“Mike Gillislee is not a very vocal guy 
but is going to be a yeoman, work hard, 
show up with his lunch pail every day,” Florida coach Will Muschamp said. “He’s that type of player for us.”
That blue-collar, work-
ing-man’s ethic is some-thing Florida will need entering the 2012 season — particularly in the 
backfield, where the Gators finished 73rd in the nation in rushing offense, and eighth in the Southeastern Conference by averaging a paltry 143 yards per game on the ground.
Gillislee was Florida’s third-leading 
rusher last season, racking up 328 yards and two scores while battling for time behind Rainey and Demps and fighting through an ankle injury that hampered him for a month in the middle of the season.
With Rainey and Demps sharing the 
load as Florida’s featured backs, the Gators’ rushing attack was often limited to outside runs, with inside plays called on occasion to try and keep defenses honest. The running styles of Rainey and Demps were better suited for breaking runs to the outside and Gillislee tops 
depth chart after Demps, Rainey depart
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Taylor Gushue has come a long way since 
the first time Gators coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
told him he would be starting at first base. 
“It was (against) William & Mary,” Gushue remembers. “I was so nervous over there.”
That was 19 days ago, but things tend to 
move fast for Florida’s youngest player. In De-cember, he graduated from Calvary Christian Academy in Fort Lauderdale. One month lat-er, he was enrolled at UF, balancing the onset of a new life with trying to prove himself as a baseball player. 
Brought in as a catcher, the 6-foot-2, 
205-pound freshman’s greatest opportunity for playing time was expected to be as a des-ignated hitter or as occasional relief for junior catcher and 2011 Southeastern Conference Player of the Year Mike Zunino. But on Feb. 25, a new possibility opened up. 
“I actually never played first base in high 
school at all,” Gushue said. “I got some expe-rience this summer (playing travel ball) and they’ve been working with me a lot at first base.” 
Freshman Gushue excelling for UF despite position switchBAseBAllsee FootBAll, p Age 20
see Hoops, p Age 18
see BAseBAll, p Age 18“[Coach Donovan] said it’s time to stop 
trying to not step on everybody’s toes, he 
said it’s time to become more of a leader 
and start pushing guys to get better.”
Brad Beal
UF freshman guard
Muschamp
Team a week after becoming the Gators’ 
first player to be named first-team All-SEC and SEC All-Freshman in the same sea-son. 
“The SEC Tournament was just a 
glimpse of what the NCAA Tournament is going to be like,” Beal said. “I am sure it is going to be more competitive and teams are going to be ready to play, so I am really looking forward to everything.”
While Beal said he is living out his 
dream of making it to The Big Dance, his teammates are wary of putting too much pressure on him ahead of his inaugural tournament appearance.
After struggling with his 3-point stroke 
consistency for much of the year, Beal shot 43.8 percent from three last week against Alabama and Kentucky in the SEC Tour -
nament — 10.9 percentage points above his season average.
“I’ve been to two NCAA Tournaments 
before and ... sometimes his position is a big part of our team as a freshman,” junior Erik Murphy said. “‘He’s never been in that situation before, so maybe I can help him out and just try to guide him a little bit.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.
org.Gushue proving to 
be clutch hitter
O’Sullivan inserted him into the first-base shuffle to 
get his bat into the lineup more often. Through 16 starts, 
Gushue has hit .308 with four home runs and 12 RBI. The only game he didn’t play in this season was No. 1 Florida’s only loss.  
Gushue has been the starting first baseman in seven of 
the past eight games for the Gators, a midweek game with Florida A&M (3-15) being the only exception. During that stretch, Gushue has come through in major spots. 
Against No. 14 Miami, he went 3 for 4 with two home 
runs and 4 RBI. In Sunday’s  3-2 win over Florida Gulf Coast, he had the game-winning home run. 
“I have no answer,” O’Sullivan said when asked about 
Gushue’s success. “Everything he does is just kind of sur -
prising, to be honest with you. It’s just a remarkable story.”
While his transition may be a surprise, nothing about 
success is new to Gushue. In his three seasons of high school baseball, he hit .472 with 30 homers and was a first-team all-state selection all three years. 
His emergence at first has put him into a category with 
some of Florida’s most well-known players. Other players to start at the position for the Gators this season include se-nior Preston Tucker and juniors Brian Johnson and Austin Maddox. 
But if the recent trends continue, it appears the spot is 
Gushue’s to lose. A switch hitter, there are no concerns about platooning him based on opposing pitchers. 
“Him being able to play as well as he’s played and learn 
a new position, it’s just remarkable,” O’Sullivan said. “He’s an athlete, and he’s competitive.”BaseBaLL , from page 1718, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
David Carr / alligator
Freshman Taylor Gushue is hitting .308 with four homers and 12 
RBI this season despite a switch from catcher to first base.
Hoops , from page 17Beal earns 
recognition for standout year as freshman
“I have no answer. Everything he does is 
just kind of surprising, to be honest with you. 
It’s just a remarkable story.”
 Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coach THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 19
letting the duo try to outrun 
defenders. Combined with the implementation of a new offense under Muschamp and then-offensive coordinator Charlie Weis, this hampered UF’s options in the run game. It also limited Gillislee’s time on the field, as he averaged 5.1 carries per game.
“We tried to get Mike in-
volved in some games, but what was hard at times, espe-cially being in the first year of everything changing was be-ing able to have an inside run-ning package, but also an out-side running package that fit what we were doing with the other guys,” Muschamp said. “I feel like if we were further along with what we were do-ing, we would’ve been able to do that, but we certainly were not at the time.
“Early in the year, we prob-
ably shoulda, coulda, woulda gotten him more involved.”
As UF attempts to add 
more inside runs and the pow-er running game it lacked last year, the 5-foot-11, 201-pound Gillislee will see an expanded role, leading a trio of larger running backs that includes little-used redshirt sophomore Mack Brown and incoming freshman Matt Jones.
“You tailor things around 
what they do best, obviously, and the guys we got coming in are a lot like those guys,” Mus-champ said. “They’re bigger backs that run the ball north and south and get downhill in the running game.”
Kickoff rules change: The 
NCAA last month approved of a proposed rules change for kickoffs, moving the ball up five yards to the 35-yard line and moving touchbacks from the 20-yard line out to the 25.
The change is designed to 
increase touchbacks and cut back on injuries on kickoff col-lisions, but Muschamp doesn’t think the change will have the desired effect.“The takeoffs don’t mat-
ter,” Muschamp said. “This rule committee — collisions happen 40 yards down the field. If you take off from five yards or 10, that doesn’t mat-ter. Do I make sense? I mean, c’mon.”
Contact Tom Green at 
tgreen@alligator.org.
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Ohio State’s Samantha Prahalis 
could be playing for Florida right 
now.
The 2011-12 Big Ten Player of the 
Year had the Gators listed as one of her top four schools and even visited UF during her recruitment.
However, despite what coach 
Amanda Butler described as “a good visit,” Prahalis ultimately decided to join the Buckeyes.
“At that time, she was a little more 
sure that Ohio State was going to be able to do things in the postseason than Florida,” Butler said. “It’s a bit ironic that we’d be meeting now.”
Prahalis will face Butler and UF for 
the first and only time in her collegiate career in the first round of the NCAA Tournament on Sunday.
The ninth-seeded Gators will try 
to minimize the impact of the eighth-seeded Buckeyes’ senior point guard, but it won’t be easy . 
Prahalis led the Big Ten with 6.4 as-
sists per game this season and her 898 career dimes are the highest total in conference history.
In addition to her skills as a distrib-
utor, Prahalis can also be effective as a scorer. She ranks second in the Big Ten this season with 20.1 points per contest, trailing only her teammate Tayler Hill, who averages 20.3 points.
Redshirt senior guard Jordan Jones 
is impressed with Prahalis’ game after watching her on film, and she admit-ted to watching some highlight videos of the Wooden Award finalist on You-Tube.
“She plays like an And1 player 
where she kind of tries to make people look stupid,” Jones said. “It’s definitely a big challenge for the guards, and not just the guards, but we’re going to need the post help, too. There’s going to be times where she beats us.”
When it comes to facing a top-notch 
playmaker like Prahalis, UF has per -
formed well on multiple occasions.
Florida held Hampton point guard 
Jericka Jenkins, who ranks second na-tionally with 7.2 assists per game and fifth with a 2.41 assist-to-turnover ra-tio, to one dime and seven giveaways in a 63-46 win on Nov. 22.
UF also held Southeastern Confer -
ence Player of the Year A’dia Mathies 
to two points on 1-of-7 shooting in a 57-52 loss to UK on Jan. 22.
“It seems like ev-
ery team who has a best player, aside from the last Ken-
tucky game, we usu-ally do a good job on 
them and limiting their touches,” Jones said.
Even if the Gators manage to slow 
down Prahalis, they still have to worry about Hill, as well as the rest of the Buckeyes.
Prahalis and Hill are the first pair of 
20-point scorers Florida will face this season, but OSU is also the highest-scoring team (75.1 points per game) UF has come across in 2011-12.
“We can’t just think that if we slow 
[Prahalis and Hill] down, the other players aren’t going to step up,” Jones said. “It’s still Ohio State. All of those girls were recruited there for a rea-son.”
Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@
alligator.org.20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012
Jones
UF Communications
After averaging just 5.1 carries per game last season, run-
ning back Mike Gillislee is in line for more work in 2012.
Gators familiar with star 
Buckeyes’ point guardRB averaged just 5.1 carries in ‘11
FootBALL,
from page 17