VOLUME 106 ISSUE 75 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Rape suspect turns himself in on Christmas Day
He is the son of a longtime UF employee, pg 14.  
Grooveshark joins oppostion of proposed anti-piracy law
Company joins Google, Wikipedia and Facebook in protest, pg 5. Freshman Beal slumping:
Brad Beal, UF’s standout freshman guard, has 
been struggling lately as Florida has lost two of its last four games, pg. 23. � MIDTOWN BARS HAVE 
EXTENDED HOURS.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Staff Writer
Team Day Drinking can take a 
victory lap.
Gainesville’s recently changed 
alcohol laws have caused bars in 
Midtown to extend their Sunday hours.
The city’s rules on alcohol, 
which were ofﬁ  cially changed Dec. 15, now allow bars and res-taurants to sell alcohol from 7 a.m. until 2 a.m, just like every other day of the week. 
Keith Benson, manager of O!O 
Garden Grille, said the new rule will bring in more student busi-ness at night than in the morn-ing. The restaurant and bar will now be open until 2 a.m. 
The Swamp Restaurant, 101 
Cantina, Gator City, Balls, Grog House Bar and Grill and Salty Dog Saloon will also be open un-til 2 a.m.
The revised ordinance also al-
lows packaged liquor to be pur-chased at stores from 7 a.m. until 11 p.m. 
Previously, packaged liquor 
was not allowed to be sold at all on Sundays, and bars and restau-rants could only serve alcohol between 1 p.m. and 11 p.m.
Because the new laws took ef-
fect on Dec. 18, right as UF’s win-ter break began, some city liquor stores are waiting before they of-ﬁ  cially change their hours. 
Mike Collins, manager of 
Gator Beverage on University Avenue, said he may open the store at 10 a.m instead of 1 p.m, but he wants to wait until busi-ness is back to normal. 
ABC Fine Wine and Spirits on 
Northwest Thirteenth Street will now be open on Sundays from Alcohol
laws change inGainesville  TYLER JETT
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 JACKSONVILLE — When they ﬁ  nally got 
to the end, Will Muschamp didn’t do much 
talking.
  Standing on the stage after Florida’s 24-17 
win against Ohio State in the Gator Bowl on Jan. 2, Muschamp kept his part of the celebra-tion succinct. It was perfect. Not necessarily for its brevity , though that was appropriate — confetti doesn’t jibe with a 7-6 team.
  Muschamp’s speech should endure as a 
memory of this season simply because of how he sounded. To cap a year of screaming — at refs, at players, at assistant coaches — Mus-champ’s voice was hoarse.
  For the last four months, Coach Boom has 
never failed to live up to his reputation, dis-playing his hair-raising sideline demeanor through both good times and bad. 
  That stayed true in the season ﬁ  nale. When 
Florida failed to attempt a Hail Mary at the end of the half against the Buckeyes, Muschamp berated freshman quarterback Jacoby Brissett as the team jogged to the locker room. In the third quarter, after reserve linebacker Graham Stewart scooped a blocked punt and returned it 14 yards for a touchdown, Muschamp Family Housing 
student Senator, 38, 
vouches for graduate 
students,
See story, page 9
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 19CROSSWORD  21
SPORTS 2379/50Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Serious Accident Halts Trafﬁ  c
Trafﬁ  c was stopped at the intersection of University Avenue and 34th Street late Sunday afternoon after a ﬁ  ve-car crash. The driver 
of the Kia Optima (pictured) is in critical condition at Shands at UF .
FOOTBALL
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Staff Writer
Library West will stay open 24 
hours from Sunday to Thursday 
this semester, excluding Spring Break. 
Student Government will fund 
$59,174 to pay for two library as-sistants, two student assistants and two security guards, said library spokeswoman Barbara Hood. 
The ﬁ  rst four ﬂ  oors and the 
sixth ﬂ  oor will stay open during the new hours. The ground ﬂ  oor Starbucks will keep the same hours as Library West, Hood said. 
A guard will check students’ Gator 1 Cards at the door starting at midnight, said Sen. Katie Wald-man, one of the bill’s authors. 
Waldman said SG will see 
how many people put in requests for SNAP or Regional Transit Service buses throughout the se-mester. She also said SG will look at library trafﬁ  c during the new hours. Hood expects to see heavy 
night trafﬁ  c.
“It has been requested by a lot 
of students for years now,” she said.
This semester, pre-profession-
al agricultural biology sophomore Kevin Parza, 20, plans to spend about six hours every day at Li-brary West. But he will not be tak-ing advantage of the new hours. 
“Very rarely do I absorb infor-
mation after 1 a.m.,” he said. 
Library West will stay open 24 hours 
New hours apply Sunday through ThursdaySEE FOOTBALL, PAGE 25
SEE ALCOHOL, PAGE 13 ‘Unacceptable’ season comes to close   News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 75 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Marissa Prieto, mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, jmorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tom Green, Phil Kegler, Greg Luca,   
  Corey McCall, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Angela Hunter,   
  Michael Jiminez, Linzy Monahan   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Southerland
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks William Adams, Courtney Barber,
  Michael Kodadek, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 A
dvertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
RAIN
67/38PARTLY
CLOUDY
70/50THUNDER
STORMS
73/50PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
79/50
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Toastmasters meeting
Tuesdays, 5:45 p.m.
Entomology Bldg. Room 1031Everyone is welcome to at-tend meetings in Room 1031 in the Entomology Building, 970 Natural Area Dr., east of the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. Meet members and learn about Toastmasters, an international organization that provides a positive atmosphere to learn and practice public speak-ing and leadership skills in a group setting. For details, go to http://talkinggators.freetoasthost.biz or call 352-870-2267. The group is also on Facebook.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
inteRnatiOnaL
North Korean TV shows young Kim threatening war in 2009 
SEOUL, South Korea — North 
Korea’s new leader vowed in 
2009 to wage war if the country’s enemies shot down its long-range rocket, footage aired on state tele-vision showed Sunday in the first official word of his role in mili-tary operations before his father’s death.
The documentary is the sec-
ond in a week seeking to high-light Kim Jong Un’s experience in leading North Korea’s 1.2 million-strong military and was aimed at showing that he was in charge of the armed forces long before his father, former leader Kim Jong Il, died of a heart attack last month.
The son, who is in his late 20s, 
has moved swiftly into the role of “supreme leader” of the people, the ruling Workers’ Party and the military despite questions abroad about how easily he could assume power with only a few years of grooming behind him. Kim Jong Il, in contrast, had 20 years of training when his father, North Korea founder Kim Il Sung, died of a heart attack in 1994.natiOnaL
Horse left at Ohio Amish-area 
Walmart needs home
SOUTH RUSSELL, Ohio — 
Wally the Walmart horse is look-ing for a new home.
That’s the nickname given to 
a 9-year-old standardbred horse that a humane society says was left at a northeast Ohio store by an Amish teenager more than two months ago. Humane Officer Christian Courtwright in Geauga County says the teen apparently unhooked the horse from a bug-gy, tied it to a rail at the Walmart in Middlefield and never came back for it.
He says the humane society 
now has control of the horse and expects it to be available for adoption soon. 
 
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Pa. grandma says she was duped by stranger’s seeds
UNIONTOWN, Pa. — A 
southwestern Pennsylvania grandmother says she’s no mari-juana grower, just a woman who wanted something that would look pretty next to her tomatoes.
A Fayette County jury cleared 
67-year-old Alberta Kelley of drug possession and manufac-ture charges on Wednesday after she told them she simply tossed a handful of seeds into her gar-den after a bearded stranger gave them to her.
Connellsville police charged 
Kelley a year ago after receiving a tip about Kelley’s garden. In-vestigators say they found seven well-cultivated, four-foot mari-
juana plants behind her home.
But Kelley claimed she didn’t 
know what she was growing. She 
said she’d been given the seeds by a stranger in a pointy hat who told her they were flower seeds.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSWhere a North Korea un-
der Kim Jong Un is headed is 
deemed crucial because the country is locked in a long-run-ning standoff over its nuclear ambitions and is grappling with chronic food shortages. North Korea has tested two atomic devices and is believed to be working toward mount-ing a bomb on a missile capable of reaching the U.S.
Sunday’s footage — shown 
on a day believed to be Kim Jong Un’s birthday — showed him shaking hands with offi-cials at a satellite control cen-ter after scientists launched a rocket in April 2009 that stoked regional tensions and earned North Korea international sanc-tions and condemnation.
“I had decided to wage a real 
war if the enemies shot down” the rocket, Kim Jong Un was quoted as saying. A voice-over described Kim Jong Il as say-ing his son was in charge of the military’s anti-rocket intercep-tion operations at the time.
For two years, North Ko-
reans were told that Kim Jong Un, who graduated from Kim Il Sung Military University, was a military genius, Pyongyang residents have told The Associ-ated Press.
Sunday’s documentary said 
Kim Jong Un had intensified military training and showed fighter jets tearing through the skies, soldiers jumping out of planes with parachutes and fir -
ing multiple-rocket launchers.
It cited Kim Jong Il as saying, 
“Our general resembles me. ... I sometimes admire his strong belief, resolve and gut.”
Kim Jong Un, who was re-
cently named supreme com-mander of the Korean People’s Army, has pledged to uphold Kim Jong Il’s “military first” policy.
He is believed to have turned 
28 or 29 on Sunday, though his exact birth date has not been confirmed by the government. The birthdays of his father and grandfather are considered the nation’s most important holi-days, but Kim Jong Un’s birth-day has not been declared a na-
tional holiday.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
 MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
After almost 18 million page views 
and 18,000 picture submissions, Tebow-
ing.com has given rise to a new word in the English language. 
Tebowing, defined as the act of tak-
ing a knee in prayerful reflection in the midst of an athletic activity , was acknowledged as an official word in the English language on Dec. 12 by the Global Language Monitor, a website that tracks word usage and language trends. 
The blog Tebowing.com, which cata-
pulted the word into the spotlight, was created by diehard Broncos fans Jared Kleinstein and Robert Bernton. The two, along with four friends, decided to take a picture doing what Kleinstein coined “Tebowing” outside a bar in New York City on Oct. 23 after Tim Tebow led the Broncos to an entertaining last-minute win.
The word has attracted all sorts of 
publicity as a form of flattery, a form of mockery and as a symbol of Christian-ity.
Bernton said the word and the site 
were created without a religious conno-tation.
“Tebowing is not asking God for 
touchdowns,” Bernton said.
The use of the word has faded out 
since its induction into the English lan-guage, said Ted Spiker, an associate professor in the journalism school who teaches Sports Media and Society . Like any trend, Spiker said, once something becomes saturated, it starts to become cliche.
Joelle Waksman disagrees. The 20-
year-old anthropology junior believes that as long as Tebow fans remain devot-ed, Tebowing will continue to be heard and seen.Website acknowledges 
‘Tebowing’ as official wordtraffic
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
A five-car crash at the intersection of 34th 
Street and University Avenue stopped traf-
fic for about three hours late Sunday after -
noon.
According to Gainesville Police, the driv-
er of a Kia Optima sped toward the inter -
section at around 4:30 p.m. and hit a green Mitsubishi Eclipse, which was stopped in a left-hand turn lane. 
The Optima hit the left bumper of the 
Eclipse and tipped sideways, GPD Cpl. Vic-tor Norman said, and still moving, crashed into the left side of a silver Chevy Cobalt and then the back of a white Honda Odyssey.
After colliding with the Odyssey, the 
Optima flipped, and the Odyssey scooted about 120 feet across the intersection. Both lanes of University Avenue from Southwest 32nd Street to Southwest 36th Street were blocked until 7:30 p.m., according to GPD. Both lanes of Southwest 34th Street were also closed from Southwest Second Avenue to University Avenue.Four of the five drivers involved in the 
crash were taken to Shands at UF, police said. The driver of the Optima, whose iden-tity was not released, is in critical condition. The other three drivers suffered minor inju-ries.
Dominique Hayes, 24, the driver of the 
Cobalt, did not go to the hospital. She sat on the curb of 34th Street in front of Checkers about a half hour after the crash and said she stopped in the turn lane when she saw the Optima approaching. She said she knew the car was not going to stop soon enough.
“I looked back in the rearview mirror, 
and the next thing I know, he hit the car be-hind me,” she said. “I don’t even know. It all happened so quick.”
Cassidy Cawley, 21, was working in the 
drive-thru at Grandy’s around 4:30 when a loud noise startled her. She immediately looked and saw smoke rising and the Op-tima flipping.   
“You know when a motorcycle takes off 
and it’s real loud?” she said. “It sounded like that, only really, really messed up.”Four taken to Shands after five-
car accident on University Avenue4, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
A Clean Start
Jimmy Lindsey, 54, pressure-washes the walkways of the J. Wayne Reitz Union once a year to ensure 
that students come back to a clean campus for the spring semester.
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Staff Writer
At the end of the day, David Norton said, 
his job is all about helping students get the an-
swers. 
The force that drives research is the desire 
to answer the burning questions nobody has solved before, he said.
And when research leads to the answer, “It’s just cool.” 
Norton, who has served as associate dean 
for research in the College of Engineering since 2009, will take over as UF’s vice president for research Jan. 30. 
He will preside over all student and faculty 
research at UF, from physics to psychology. 
Norton succeeds Win Phillips, who was 
named UF’s senior vice president and chief operating officer in September.  Phillips said Norton’s personal research, as 
well as the 11 years he spent as a researcher at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, have prepared him well.
“He has the energy, experience, drive and 
wisdom, and we’re looking forward to his leadership,” Phillips said. 
At Oak Ridge, Norton participated in a 
wide range of research, often working with physicists, chemists and other scientists.Norton will be putting his own research on 
hold while he focuses on his administrative duties.
Although he said there are no immediate 
problems on his plate, Norton recognizes that UF is facing budget issues that could restrict research opportunities.
However, he said, “it doesn’t change the 
fact that there are questions out there that need to be answered.” New UF vice president for research takes over Jan. 30JULIA GLUM
Alligator Writer
The University Athletic As-
sociation voted to increase the 
price of a non-student football season ticket to $280 for the seven home games in the 2012 season.
The ticket price will increase 
by $3 per game, said UAA As-sistant Athletic Director Mark Gajda.
Student tickets will not be 
affected, Gajda wrote in an email. 
The UAA board voted for 
the price increase on Dec. 14. 
The board postponed a 
planned increase in booster contributions because of the lagging economy, Gadja said.
UAA needed revenue to help 
offset rising tuition and athlete stipend costs, so the board ap-proved the increase for season tickets. This price increase will yield about $1 million.
The association is confident 
that this move won’t hurt sea-son ticket sales, he said.
Anna Vanlandingham and 
her husband, Ron Gilmore, have held at least eight season tickets since 1979. The couple disagrees with the price in-crease but plans to renew the tickets. 
“Hopefully the booster club 
will notice who actually stuck together with the Gators in all kinds of weather,” she said.Non-student football 
ticket prices increase MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
technology
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Staff Writer
Suppose a UF student were to post a clip 
from a popular TV show on YouTube. 
Say the student filmed the show with a 
video camera while watching it, which is il-
legal. 
If a proposed law is passed in its current 
state, that decision could be considered a fel-ony and shut down all of YouTube.
Grooveshark and other Internet compa-
nies are uniting to make sure the proposed law, the Stop Online Piracy Act, is changed or halted.
The act, better known as SOPA, is a na-
tional bill that could change the regulations for piracy on the Web. The bill is being re-viewed in the House of Representatives. Grooveshark, a Gainesville-based music 
streaming website, has been protesting SOPA alongside Internet companies like Google, Wikipedia and Facebook, according to a list on TechCrunch.com.
Grooveshark has a “small presence” in 
Washington, D.C., said Paul Geller, Senior Vice President of External Affairs. This al-lows staff to stay informed of legislation like SOPA and the U.S. Senate’s version, the Pro-tect IP Act, better known as PIPA.
He said SOPA is being pushed “at a pace 
that is just unjustifiable” and could have det-rimental effects on Internet users.
Geller said the bill infringes on freedom of 
speech.
Because of that, the bill could be blocked 
by Internet companies citing the First Amend-ment and other laws, said Gerald Haskins, UF senior lecturer and Internet law expert.
“This is a really poorly written bill, and it 
could be used to prosecute uploaders, down-loaders, and anyone like that,” he said.
Geller and Haskins each pointed out that 
the bill also carries potential security issues. Computer users who don’t want to be limited by SOPA could change their Domain Name Server settings to be out-side of American jurisdic-
tion. This means their com-puters could be susceptible to scam websites that are 
blocked by the U.S. server. 
“It could bring the Internet to a halt,” 
Haskins said.
Geller said Grooveshark is supporting Or -egon Sen. Ron Wyden’s alternative bill, the Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade Act. The bill is available at keepthewe-bopen.com, and visitors can suggest changes or alternatives.
In a statement to The Independent Florida 
Alligator, local Rep. Cliff Stearns said he will not take a position on SOPA until he sees the final proposal from the House Judiciary Committee.
In the meantime, Geller said the company 
is trying to educate lawmakers on the bill.
Keivan Zolfaghari, 20-year-old psychol-
ogy and food resource economics junior, said he learned about SOPA from Tumblr and is planning to write to his congressman about the legislation.
“I think it hurts where we are today,” he 
said.
Grooveshark joins opposition of anti-piracy legislation
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Writer
UF will launch a partnership with ridesharing program 
Zimride on Tuesday.
Anyone with a Gatorlink account can register at zimride.
com/ufl to make a free profile and view local routes and re-
quests for daily commutes or one-time trips.
Students and university employees who sign up for the 
service will drive their own cars. Zimride and UF will not provide any vehicles or specific parking spots.
Zimride will help UF “reduce the impact of single-occu-pancy cars on campus,” said Ron Fuller, assistant director of Transportation and Parking Services. 
The partnership supports the Office of Sustainability’s 
One Less Car initiative. For the past four years, the parking department contracted with GreenRide. 
UF is switching to Zimride partly because of its integration with Facebook, which will appeal to students, Fuller said. Us-ers can link their Zimride and Facebook profiles to add cred-ibility. 
Fuller hopes this social media aspect will make students 
more comfortable communicating with potential carpool members.
“You can see a picture of the person you’d be riding with, 
and that may be all that it takes,” he said.
Rey Owhonda, an 18-year-old biology freshman, said Zim-
ride will be useful for students, but they need to be careful.
“Make sure you screen the people who are driving because 
there are crazy drivers,” he said.UF to launch new carpooling program for students, employees
“Make sure you screen the people who are 
driving because there are crazy drivers.”
Rey Owhonda
biology freshmanhaskins
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialMONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Do you think the library should be 
open 24 hours?
Dec. 7 question: Did you read the Alligator 
at all this semester? 
570 TOTAL VOTES79% YES
21% NOStudents should protest required clickers
Note: This column will use a response card (“click-
er”) to solicit reader responses to critical-thinking questions. Those without one will not receive full 
points for reading this column. 
It’s safe to say professors want their students to find 
lectures insightful and, most of all, worth attending. If I were teaching a large class, the only way to assess this would be to compare grades with attendance. 
I’d treat my lectures as episodes of a TV show. For the 
show to have an audience, it must offer something the audience wants. If few showed up to my class, I’d deem my lectures ineffective and work on improving them.
Q: Why on Earth would any professor ever require a 
clicker?
A: 1) Because they would never trust student opinions 
about lecture quality. 2) Because UF already bought and installed all the technology. 3) Obviously wrong answer with big words to trick C-students. 4) To solicit student responses to critical thinking questions. 5) As if a com-munications junior at UF would know.
Time’s up. Moving on.Taking away a student’s right to leave — or to never 
show up to — a lecture prevents him or her from giving feedback about its quality. 
The funny thing is that professors claim these infernal 
contraptions actually increase feedback from students. From an INR2001 syllabus: “Lectures will use response cards (‘clickers’) … to solicit student responses to critical thinking questions.” If this truly were the case, why not use Sakai? Other than requiring a student be in the class-room, clickers are no different. 
These questions about clickers first crossed my mind 
when I took INR2001 this past fall. During a lecture on dictators, my professor left one clicker question until the end of class, stating he wanted to punish anyone who leaves, like the two boys he caught last lecture. 
To be fair, clickers do offer professors of large classes a 
method to assess where a class stands in its understand-ing of certain topics. Though if my professor doesn’t care about the data needed to improve his lectures, then he shouldn’t care if students attend his lecture.
Q: Why require a twenty-
some-odd-dollar remote when Sakai can do the same thing? 
A: 1) Because it requires less 
effort for the professor. 2) Be-cause the professor enjoys fos-tering student misery. 3) It’ll definitely be 3 this time, bro. 4) 
Because UF strongly encourages it.  5) Because the click-ers are really meant to take attendance.
Time’s up. (And yes, back row and aisle-sitters, I’m 
saving one question till the end.)
Even with all this evidence staring them in the face, 
both UF administration and professors allow clickers, leaving only students with the means to end this peculiar institution. 
Just stop buying clickers. Think about it:Q: How can a professor punish a class of clicker-less 
students?
A: 1) Giving them all bad grades. 2) Making clicker 
points extra credit. 3) It’s got to be 3 this time, dude. 4) Sending a long, angry email threatening consequences. 5) Whoa…
Time’s up. Crazy, right?Unlike the Syrian government, our professors cannot 
shoot at us until we stop making trouble. Docking grades looks bad because grades are a representation of student mastery, not a means of exercising power. In the face of mass collective action, professors will have no option other than to fold. 
The moral here: Protest what you don’t like in the 
classroom. Nail 95 theses to professors’ doors. Dump their tea into Lake Alice. 
Until students demand that professors redress the 
poop out of these grievances, our suffering will contin-ue.
Chip Skambis is an English and telecommunication junior 
at UF. His column appears on Mondays.We’re Back
Readers welcome to 
submit columns, letters
The Alligator Editorial Board would like to welcome you 
back to Gainesville for the Spring 2012 semester — the last spring semester, if you want to believe the Mayans. 
The world is not going to end; don’t worry. Check out NASA 
if you don’t believe us. 
We are excited about the new year, and we’re ready to bring 
you more of our opinions on current events on campus, in Gainesville, around Florida and throughout the U.S. and the world. 
We will be focusing a lot of attention on local, state and fed-
eral elections this year. We will also be concentrating on issues in the presidential campaigns we believe are important to students and Gainesville residents.
Students will also be electing their new Student Body presi-
dent this year. If you paid attention to last semester’s botched election, you know how important it is to put competent people in office for UF’s Student Government. 
The Alligator’s opinions section will also be making some 
changes this year.  
Instead of featuring only five different opinion-makers each 
week, we will have seven regular Alligator columnists this se-mester. 
We tried our best to select columnists from different ideologi-
cal and political perspectives. One of our columnists will also be mixing in some humor with his analysis of the issues. 
We are excited about this change, and we hope it will create 
an even greater sense of diversity of ideas for our readers. 
We also strongly encourage you to submit your thoughts and 
opinions about these elections and other issues. The Alligator strives to use its opinion pages as a forum for debate and discus-sion, but there’s no way we can do that unless you submit your ideas.  
There are a couple of ways for our readers to have a voice on 
the pages of the Alligator. 
If you have a lot to say, we encourage you to submit a guest 
column. These are usually between 500 and 600 words. Guest columns should take a stand and strive to make a clear and con-cise point about an issue. Guest submissions that focus on cam-pus and local issues will generally be given priority over pieces focused on state and national issues. You must include your full name, your year (sophomore, senior, etc.) and your major. 
If you want to make a quick point about an issue or respond 
to one of our editorials or columns, you can submit a letter to the editor. These are generally between 150 and 250 words. You should include your name and whether you are a student or a Gainesville resident.  
Letters and guest columns should be submitted as an attach-
ment to opinions@alligator.org. 
We hope you have a great semester, and we look forward to 
providing you with  the best news and commentary possible. 
Chip Skambis
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
I hope you all enjoyed the break as 
much as I did. While we were away , it looks like the horse race for the Re-
publican presidential nomination got even more unusual with the out-of-no-where surge of Rick Santorum and the evaporation of the previously prominent Newt Gingrich. What interests me the most, however, is the level of support Ron Paul is getting for the White House and what it says about our generation.
In 2008, about two-thirds of voters 
below the age of 30 voted for Barack Obama, myself included. We were tired of the war in Iraq and the presidency of George W. Bush. Most of us wanted a more tolerant nation, and even conser -
vatives opposed to things like abortion rights and gay marriage spoke about it in a different way than the generation above us. 
Now, in 2012, with a presidential 
election on the horizon, we are still in Af-ghanistan, we have record deficits, and it seems that the solution to everything now is to create a new department or agency to create new laws and regula-tions that can never be fairly and widely administered. 
I finally get why I never liked George 
W. Bush. It was because he was a big-gov-ernment conservative. He created a new entitlement program in Medicare Part D, did noth-ing to trim government spending and pushed the nation into an expensive 
war that will cost us trillions of dollars and ended up costing thousands of lives. He pushed for a constitutional amend-ment on marriage and sought to define society’s values through the arm of the government instead of allowing Ameri-cans to make their own choices. 
Ron Paul is the antithesis to George 
W. Bush and Barack Obama. He is the ultimate anti-government presidential candidate, and a big chunk of our age group has been flocking to his message. It creates a message for where the future of conservatism is heading when a candi-date who thinks we should be spending trillions less and trimming the military by thousands gets more than 20 percent of the vote in Iowa.
For the rest of this column, visit al-
ligator.org. Travis Hornsby is a statistics 
and economics senior at UF. His column 
appears on Mondays.
Students urged to follow safety tips
On behalf of the University of Florida  Po-
lice Department, allow me to wish all return-
ing students, faculty and staff a Happy New Year and provide you with some information to help start the spring semester on a safe note.
I am pleased to report that during the holi-
day break, University Police made an arrest in the sexual battery incident that occurred on campus in November. The Gainesville Police Department’s investigation into a subsequent armed robbery and attempted sexual battery that occurred off campus at an ATM remains ongoing. University Police will continue an in-creased patrol presence in the areas adjacent to campus.
These criminal incidents are reminders that 
we all must be vigilant when it pertains to per -
sonal safety and mindful that despite our best efforts, serious crimes may affect our lives. 
It is extremely important that we think 
about safety as a shared responsibility .   The 
UPD operates 24 hours a day , every day , but officers cannot be everywhere to protect you.  You can help by partnering with us to 
keep campus safe.   Please remember that the 
information and safety tips provided to the university community through the UF Alert system are reactive in nature and are used to provide information about an incident that has already occurred. I encourage each of you to be proactive and take steps to prevent an in-cident before it occurs by following the safety information provided below: Stay alert and pay attention to your sur -
roundings.
Call 911 immediately to report any suspi-
cious or strange activity.
Use the buddy system when walking at 
night and in isolated areas.
Walk in familiar, well-travelled areas, espe-
cially at night and away from alleys, bushes or entryways.
If a driver stops to ask directions, keep your 
distance from the car.
Use the SNAP service for a safe and effi-
cient method of transportation. After 3 a.m., please call UPD at 352-392-1111.
Lock the windows and doors of your car 
and your apartment or residence hall.
Do not take rides from strangers.Ensure emails and cellphone numbers are 
correct in myUFL to receive UF Alerts.
Avoid using ATMs at night.Do not leave your belongings unattended.Educate yourself about reported criminal 
incidents around campus by reviewing crime reports at http://www.police.ufl.edu/me-dia/crimemap.asp. 
Thank you for your time and once again, I 
would like to welcome all of you back to cam-pus.  I look forward to partnering with you for 
enhanced campus safety, and I hope that your experience here is a safe, positive and reward-ing one.
Chief Linda J. Stump
Assistant Vice President of Public and  
Environmental SafetyLetters to the EditorWhat Iowa says about 
young conservatives  Column
Travis Hornsby
letters@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
� FARM LEADER SAID BISON 
WILL NOT BE KILLED.
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Writer
Bulls in Paynes Prairie will be 
taken to farms but will stay off 
the chopping block.
Four farms put in propos-
als to remove some of the bison from the park’s herd as a part of the Florida Department of Envi-ronmental Protection’s plan to reduce inbreeding.
The Florida Park Service 
awarded the bid to Gateway Farms, LLC, on Dec. 27, but the final contract has not been signed yet, said Jessica Sims, spokes-woman for the Florida Park Ser -vice, in email.
About 10 to 15 bulls will be 
taken from Paynes Prairie Pre-serve State Park to be used for breeding, said David Hajos, president of Gateway Farms.
The bison will be divided 
among five of the farms owned by Gateway Farms, but Hajos declined to name the exact loca-tions.
He said the 60 to 70 bison will 
be rounded up and held until all pregnant females give birth.
All the newborn males will be 
castrated and released back onto Paynes Prairie.
Hajos said Gateway Farms 
will be paid $365 for each of the 60 to 70 bison held, including the 10 to 15 it will own.Bison to be removed 
to prevent inbreedingERIN JESTER
Alligator Staff Writer
After 12 years of charging fees of up to half the 
price of a ticket, Ticketmaster will soon be repay-
ing customers to the tune of $45 million over four years.
In 2003, two Ticketmaster users filed a class-
action suit against the company, claiming the pro-cessing and UPS delivery fees were excessive and deceptive, according to ticketfeelitigation.com. 
“In essence, what they’re getting them for is 
charging for services that really weren’t rendered — giving fees for costs that really weren’t incurred,” said UF business law professor Robert Emerson.
Although Ticketmaster disputes the claims, the 
company agreed in November to settle by offering purchase credits to customers who bought tickets through Ticketmaster’s website between Oct. 21, 1999 and Oct. 19, 2011. 
Ticketmaster will offer a $1.50 credit on future 
transactions for class members.
Customers who paid for rushed delivery 
through UPS will receive a $5 credit per order shipped by UPS. 
Customers can receive credits for up to 17 trans-
actions for each type of credit.
Ticketmaster users involved in the suit will be 
emailed a coupon code to redeem the credit, which 
will go toward future Ticketmaster purchases.
Political science and sustainability sophomore Sydney O’Haire, 20, said she bought about 30 tick-
ets from Ticketmaster during the period in ques-tion. 
She said she’s glad the lawsuit was brought 
against the company but doesn’t think it’s a suffi-cient punishment.
“It seems like an easy way to get out of a really 
big deal because Ticketmaster has monopolized ticket purchases for every genre of music,” she said. 
According to court documents, Ticketmaster 
must pay a minimum of $11.25 million per year for the next four years.
If that amount isn’t met through credits to Tick-
etmaster customers, the company will pay the bal-ance to a charitable organization. 
The final approval hearing for the settlement 
will take place in May. Emerson said Ticketmaster probably won’t be hurt financially by the lawsuit.
“Given how big Ticketmaster is and how many 
venues they control and the share of the mar -
ket they have, $50 million may not really be that much,” he said. Ticketmaster offering credit
“In essence, what they’re getting 
them for is charging for services that 
really weren’t rendered — giving fees for 
costs that really weren’t incurred.”
Robert Emerson
UF business law professorSAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
Justin Runac was the only independent 
Student Government senator to get elected 
in Fall 2011. He is also the only senator who is 38 years old. 
“There was a little bit of an age differ -
ence; not too big of an issue,” he said. 
So far, the age difference hasn’t been a 
problem. He mostly interacts with gradu-ate students in Senate because most of the people there are new to him. 
Even though the people are new to 
Runac, Runac is not new to Senate. 
He started UF in Fall 2008, pursuing 
his doctorate degree in the College of Medicine’s Interdisciplinary Program in Biomedical Sciences. That semester, he ap-plied for and secured a vacant Senate seat for Family Housing. 
He continued to serve in Spring and 
Summer 2009 and ran for the first time in the fall. He  won but vacated his seat in Spring 2010 when he went on a leave of absence. 
“My research project in my lab was 
changing at the time, and it seemed like a good opportunity to take a year away from school,” he said. 
Runac worked during his leave but de-
clined to say more about it.
He returned to UF and ran for his old 
seat in the fall of 2011. Although his Senate seat is currently labeled Family Housing, he represents residents of Graduate and Family Housing. “I felt I could make a little bit of a dif-
ference,” he said.
Runac has tried to get on a committee, 
but he said it is almost impossible for an independent senator. 
Although political parties have ap-
proached him, he said he wants to remain independent. 
“He made it very clear from the begin-
ning that he wanted no involvement with political parties, since he felt they distract from actually helping the constituents you are supposed to represent,” former gradu-ate senator Matthew Vernon wrote in an email. 
Vernon, 27, a former member of the 
Progress Party, worked with Runac in Runac’s second term.
They first met Sept. 30, 2009 outside the 
Orange & Brew after the fall election re-sults were announced. 
Vernon said he recognized Runac from 
previous Senate sessions and knew Runac already understood a lot about SG. 
Runac worked with former Senate Pres-
ident Ashton Charles during reapportion-ment meetings to increase graduate stu-dent representation, Vernon said. 
Historically, graduate senators don’t 
fulfill their terms because of busy sched-ules, he said.  
In the past, undergraduate senators 
have argued that they should reapportion those seats to undergraduates. 
“This trend resulted in the malappor -
tionment that Justin pointed out and was instrumental in eventually rectifying,” Vernon said. 
Still, not enough graduate and inter -
national students are represented in SG, Runac said. 
At UF, 34 percent of the student popula-
tion is graduate and professional students. There are fewer than 15 student senators who are graduate or professional students, he said. 
Runac said he thinks SG should spend 
more time considering graduate students’ issues and needs, such as increasing fees. 
“I hope to introduce legislation this 
year to reverse this trend,” Runac said. “Graduate students play a huge role at UF in teaching undergrads, and they should not suffer from the large financial burden of fees while they are doing so much to help this school.” MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Justin Runac, 38, a biomedical sciences graduate student, holds a voting seat in the 
UF Senate representing graduate students. He does not consider himself a politician. “I volunteered because there was no one else,” he said.
Student governmentFamily Housing senator, 38, vouches for graduate students10, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
Ray Washington
Running for: District 156; J.D. from UF Levin College of Law
Current career: Attorney at Ray Washington Law Firm
Goals: Terminate biomass contract; reduce city electric rates; create more opportunities for youth; create safe neighborhoods through police and code enforcement.Armando Grundy
Running for: District 1 32; Attended Saint Leo University; bachelor’s in progressCurrent career : Retail
Goals: Promote community involvement; work to expand mass transit; increase neighborhood Crime Watch organi-zations; support after-school programs; simplify process for 
businesses to come to Gainesville.ELECTION SPARKNOTES: A SUMMARY OF THE GAINESVILLE CITY COMMISSION RACES
Yvonne Hinson-Rawls
Running for:  District 1
64; Master’s in Education from UFCurrent career
: Retired
Goals: Create more job training and apprenticeship 
programs; bring more jobs to Gainesville; create pro-grams to deter youth from crime; diversify how the city 
gets energy to reduce utility costs.
Dejeon Cain
Running for: At-Large 128; Graduated from Gainesville High SchoolCurrent career: Police service technician for the University of Florida Police Department
Goals: Allow bars to stay open until 4 a.m., but enforce the current rule of ending alcohol sales at 2 a.m.; bud-
get more money to GPD; lower cost of energy; make sure city employ-ees are paid fairly.
James Ingle
Running for: At-Large 134; Graduated from Gainesville Academy of Electrical TechnologyCurrent career: Electrician and teacher at Gainesville 
Academy of Electrical Technology
Goals: Streamline the process to start a business in 
Gainesville; hire city residents for city projects; reduce the city’s pov-erty rate; allow residents more time to speak at commission meet-ings; put city voting histories and passed bills online; institute soft closing of city bars.
Donna Lutz
Running for: At-Large 166; Bachelor’s in Spanish from UFCurrent career: Real Estate Broker and owner of Lutz Re -
alty Group
Goals: Promote a sense of citywide community; en-courage residents to vote in local elections; support 
a system of open government; support city innovation initiatives; be fiscally responsible with the city’s budget; have a one-year budget, rather than a two-year budget.
Darlene Pifalo
Running for: At-Large 169; Graduated from Haddon Heights High School and re -
ceived her Certified Residential Specialist designationCurrent career:  Real estate broker and vice president of 
Prudential Trend Realty
Goals: Institute quarterly city budget reports; review pri-
vate property rights; encourage open bids for city projects and strictly 
limit price; incentivize contractors who stay under budget
Lauren Poe
Running for: At-Large 140; Master’s in Education from UFCurrent career: Associate professor at Santa Fe College
Goals: Expand innovation projects; continue to work on a first-stop center for abused women; streamline process to set up a business.
Richard Selwach
Running for: At-Large 149; AA in business from UFCurrent career:  Owner of Best Pawn & Loan Pawn Brokers 
and a landlordGoals: Balance budget without raising taxes; clean up graffiti and litter; institute an environmental protection 
policy; terminate biomass contract.
Nathan Skop
Running for: At-Large 144; JD from UF Levin College of LawCurrent career: AttorneyGoals: Terminate biomass contract; reduce taxes; en-courage economic development; ensure public safety departments are properly funded
Mark Venzke
Running for: At-Large 154; Attended Purdue University and left in 1982Current career: NoneGoals: Promote renewable energy; pressure for Cabot-Koppers superfund site cleanup; encourage partnerships between the city and private companies.
Maegan Dennis and Meredith Rutland / Alligator Staff� BUSCARON HOPES TO PUT 
UF ROBOTICS ON THE MAP.
ALLI LANGLEY
Alligator Writer
As a senior in high school, 
Camilo Buscaron built a robotic 
arm for a science fair project. Now, as a UF senior, he wants to push robotics further and leave behind a legacy.
Computer engineering fifth-
year senior Buscaron, 22, is the president and founder of Gator Robotics. The club’s goal is to help students learn about robotics, de-sign robots, participate in competi-tions and showcase their projects.
“Robotics is a multidisciplinary 
endeavor,” he said. “It requires knowledge of electrical, computer and mechanical engineering. I want to do all those.”
Buscaron grew up in the Do-
minican Republic and moved to Miami at 15. He developed a love for custom automotives and engi-neering at his uncle’s mechanics shop, and his passion for robotics grew when he created the arm.
Once he was at UF, Buscaron 
pursued robotics, but he said it was hard for inexperienced students to get involved with SubjuGator, an award-winning autonomous sub-marine.
So he found his way into UF’s 
robotics program by offering to help a senior with his thesis proj-ect.Luis Alejandro Vega, now 26, 
mentored Buscaron while the freshman helped him design eight MILyBots, orange-sized robots programmed to play tag, find balls and dance salsa together.
“Every time he talks, I can feel 
the passion in what he’s saying,” Vega said about working with Buscaron.
Buscaron co-authored a paper 
about the project, and he and Vega won the award for the best paper at the southeast conference of the IEEE, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Eric Schwartz, an engineering 
professor and the club’s faculty adviser, said he thinks no one from UF has ever won the award, and the accomplishment is unheard of for a freshman.
A few years later, Buscaron 
founded Gator Robotics to provide students with more opportunities in the field. He and the club’s six other officers were so surprised by the turnout of the first meeting, they triple-counted the 144 signa-tures on the sign-in sheet.
On Dec. 7, the club held a ro-
botics fair in the Reitz Union Col-onnade with demonstrations that included several robots that club members designed and built last semester.
Included in the bunch were In-
stiGator, an autonomous robot that won a lawn-mowing competition last summer, and TailGator, a ro-bot with a cooler and a grill that the club showcased at a football game. The Blue Rover robot is modeled after the Mars vehicle, Sojourner. Buscaron said Blue Rover could have military and emergency situ-ation applications.
Buscaron said he commits 15 to 
20 hours to the club each week and spends time working on robotics projects in Schwartz’s Machine In-telligence Lab.
Buscaron has a vision for UF’s 
robotics program. He said when people think of UF 25 years from now, he hopes they’ll think of the best robotics school in the world.
Gator Robotics Vice President 
Daniel Nunez, said, “Doing proj-ects with him is very, very en-couraging because he’s very open-minded and he let’s you work and do things on your own, but he gives you input too.”
Schwartz also sings Buscaron’s 
praises.
“I always tell people, ‘If I had 
three Camilos, we could rule the world.’”
Robotics club president brings passion, dedication to team MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Computer science senior Camilo Buscaron, 22, spends his days working with robots to prepare them 
for competitions. He and his team recently built the SubjuGator, which can to swim through underwater tubes without a remote control.
12, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
 MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 13
More liquor stores now open Sundays
ALCOHOL , from page 1The first day of the spring semester also 
brings the first day of drop/add week—the period during which students can 
change their schedules at will, picking up and dropping classes without consequence. 
Beginning Monday morning and running 
through 11:59 p.m. Friday, the drop/add pe-riod is the time for students to try out classes and to make sure they’re on track for their major. It is also the busiest time for advis-ers.
Albert Matheny, director of the College of 
Liberal Arts and Sciences advising center, said the first week of the spring semester is much busier than the first week of fall. This week, he said, CLAS advisers will probably see about 1,500 students. 
Here are some tips from the advisers and 
the Office of the University Registrar on how to navigate drop/add:How to Take Full Advantage of Drop / Add
Come in to advising early. Advisers’ busiest hours are between 11:30 a.m. and 2 p.m. 
 Go to as many classes you’re interested in as possible during drop/add week. This way you can get a feel for each class 
to make a better decision of what to keep in your schedule, and you won’t miss any important information or lectures from 
the first week.
Check your registration start time before dropping courses. During the first three days of drop/add, ISIS has set registra-
tion start times for adding courses. Although you can drop before your start time, you cannot pick up a course. Add before you drop. ISIS is not updated in exact real-time, so be sure your seat in a class is assured before you drop 
something you might not be able to pick back up.Don’t give up on ISIS. By the middle of the day on Wednesday almost every class will have at least one opening, Matheny 
said. The best thing to do is be patient and keep checking online for seats.If you’re having difficulty adding a course, talk to the department first, not the professor. Courses have two caps: the 
course enrollment cap and the classroom’s fire code cap, which is often a larger number, Matheny said. Departments can 
often add students to courses beyond enrollment caps. This is especially true if you are a senior who needs the course to graduate.
Keep in mind that ISIS takes a day to update any degree audits. Be sure to keep tabs on your audit to make sure you are 
still on track after dropping or adding courses.Remember: 11:59 p.m. is a firm deadline. After this time, students are responsible for the courses in their schedule and 
will have to pay to drop a course.
Maegan Dennis and Emily Morrow / Alligator Staff
 Packaged liquor could 
not be purchased at stores — only beer and wine.
 Bars and restaurants 
could only sell alcoholic beverages from 1 p.m. un-til 11 p.m. Current laws
 Packaged liquor can be purchased at stores be-tween 7 a.m. and 11 p.m.
 Bars and restaurants 
can sell alcoholic bever-ages from 7 a.m. until 2 a.m. the next morning.Previous laws
noon until 9 p.m. The ABC on Southwest Archer Road will 
be open on Sunday from 11 a.m. until 9 p.m.
“The previous laws were put in at a time when Sundays 
meant something slightly different,” said City Commission-er Jeanna Mastrodicasa, chair of the committee that passed the measure. “In today’s economy, you have to look for ways for businesses to survive.”
The idea was brought to the commission’s attention when 
a resident recommended the change. 
No one objected, Mastrodicasa said. After the Gainesville Police Department said police cov-
erage was not a problem, she said, she knew the measure would pass.
Brandon Nichols, an architecture student at Santa Fe Col-
lege, said he’s excited about the change.
“I give the law two thumbs up,” said Nichols, 25. “Sorry 
I’m not sorry for partying.”“The previous laws were put in at a time when 
Sundays meant something slightly different. In 
today’s economy, you have to look for ways for 
businesses to survive.”
Jeanna Mastrodicasa
Gainesville City Commissioner14, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
Courtesy to the Alligator
One-year-old Nola Lee Peterson is recovering after being treated at 
Shands at UF for second- and third-degree burns that covered 10 percent of her body. 
MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writer
Nola Lee Peterson toddled to-
ward the foot-deep fire pit.
She’d been good about staying 
on her side of the yard — the side 
far away from the flames where her parents were prepping dinner on a mid-November evening.
The 16-month-old eased closer, 
getting bolder as she neared the em-bers.
Her dad went to move her away 
from the fire, but she was startled. She tumbled into the flames.
For the next few weeks, the Lake 
City residents spent day and night near their daughter as she was treat-ed at Shands at UF. Countless doc-tors cared for the second- and third-degree burns that covered 10 percent of the child’s body.
With the new year comes new 
challenges for the Peterson fam-ily. They’ve been able to make ends meet so far, but they’re asking for help to pay Nola’s long-term medi-cal needs, including occupational therapy to teach her to use her re-covering hand.
“This little girl’s been through a 
lot, and she’s tough, tough, tough,” her dad, Keith Peterson, said. “It’s hard to see a baby go through things like that.”
Nola fell in and, swoop, she was 
out. 
Her dad’s arms surrounded her, and he held her on the ambulance stretcher. Nola lay on top of him. She cried as strangers prodded her, and the numbing shock wore off.
At the hospital, medical workers 
scrubbed and scoured Nola’s body of burned tissue.
Next came her first surgery. Then 
a second. 
Doctors were able to save Nola’s 
left pinky and ring fingers, which had gotten the worst of the burns.
The surgeries and hospitaliza-
tions are over for now, and the Pe-tersons are prepping for Nola’s long-term care. 
Scrunched scar tissue remains on 
the back of her hand and on her wrist where the skin grafts were added.
But when Nola plays, she uses her 
right hand to put mulch in a yellow dump truck or to pull herself onto a bench. She keeps her injured hand in a claw-like clamp, sometimes hold-ing it behind her back.
Her blonde Shirley-Temple-like 
curls stick to her head as she giggles and bounds over to her dad. He holds out his right hand. After a mo-ment, she grabs his hand with her left hand, which is still bent but has relaxed some.She looks at him with bright blue 
eyes — her dad’s eyes.
The scar tissue keeps her skin 
tight and makes it hard for her to use her hand. That’s why, her parents said, she needs hand therapy.
Nola will also need to see a mas-
sage therapist to break up the tough scars, and the family drives from Lake City so Nola can see a doctor at Shands at UF twice a week.
Between the gas bills, the tod-
dler-friendly pain medication and the rehabilitation, the Petersons esti-mate their expenses will be $4,000 to $5,000 — most of which their insur -
ance won’t cover.
Right after Nola’s accident, fam-
ily and friends donated $2,500 to the Petersons so Nola’s mom could take time off work. 
The time frame for that cushion is 
about to end. Friends and strangers have donated an additional $2,800 for Nola’s long-term care. To cover the rest of the cost, Emily Peterson said she might go back to her job as a store manager, and Keith would continue to be a stay-at-home dad.
No matter what it takes, her par -
ents said, they’ll do what they have to do to get Nola the care she needs, even if it means working more hours or taking out a loan.
“Whatever we have to do to make 
it happen, we’ll do it,” Emily Peter -
son said.
To donate to Nola’s medical fund, 
visit wepay.com/donate/171996.
Lake City toddler recovering after falling into fire pit
“This little girl’s been 
through a lot, and she’s 
tough, tough, tough.” 
Keith Peterson
father MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 15
16, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
�   THE SUSPECT IS CHARGED WITH SEXUAL    
BATTERY WITHOUT PHYSICAL FORCE.
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
The son of a longtime UF employee was charged with 
sexual battery after turning himself in on Christmas 
morning.
Tommie C. Howard III, 25, of Hawthorne, called Uni-
versity Police on Dec. 25 and said he would come into the station. Two days earlier, UPD Chief Linda Stump an-nounced Howard was a suspect in the Nov. 29 rape of a UF student.
Howard III was charged with sexual battery without 
physical force, a second-degree felony, and he is being held at Alachua County Jail. As of press time Sunday, Howard had not made bail, which was set at $150,000.His father, Tommie C. Howard Jr., worked for UF for 
40 years before retiring in September 2010, according to The UF Advisor blog. Howard Jr. most recently worked as an ombudsman, a job in which he served as a middleman between students and the senior academic officer.
In June, Howard Jr. became a Haw-
thorne city commissioner after running unopposed. He did not return the Alliga-tor’s calls requesting comment about his son’s arrest.
Howard III was identified as a suspect 
in the Nov. 29 rape after DNA evidence from the case linked him with a previous battery case, said Maj. Brad Barber, UPD 
spokesman.
The rape victim, a 20-year-old UF student, told police 
she left 101 Cantina with a man she didn’t know on Nov. 29. He raped her in his car somewhere between the bar and campus, and she escaped around 1:45 a.m., according to the police report.
A student driving on Fraternity Row noticed the victim 
being chased by a man. She told the victim to get in her car and took her to Shands at UF.
As of press time, Howard III had not been ruled out 
as a suspect in an attempted rape on Dec. 9 near Sorority Row. No charges had been filed in that case as of press time.
The victim in that case, also a UF student, was getting 
in her car parked near Norman Hall and the Campus USA Credit Union at 1200 SW 5th Ave. around 10 p.m. on Dec. 9. A man wearing a ski mask then jumped in the car and held a knife against the victim, according to a police re-port. After she climbed into the back seat, the victim faked an asthma attack and the suspect ran away.
Alligator staff writer Emily Morrow contributed to this 
report.Rape suspect turns himself in on Christmas Day
ON CAMPUS
CLARE LENNON
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF library system may be forced to 
scale back on staff, resources and libraries 
if possible budget cuts go through.
In the 2012-13 budget review for the 
George A. Smathers Libraries, library staff proposed budgets for three possible scenar -
ios: keeping the existing budget, a 5-per -cent budget cut and a budget increase. 
Dean of University Libraries Judy 
Russell said the university’s Responsibil-ity Center Management committee recom-mends a budget based on the scenarios provided. 
“I would be extremely surprised to find 
that we had a 5-percent cut,” she said. “But again, you can’t really predict that until you know what the overall financial assets of the university are.”
If that cut is made, Russell said the li-
braries would likely have to lay off several employees and close the Architecture and Fine Arts, Journalism, Music and Educa-tion Libraries.
Russell said last year’s budget review 
proposed the same three scenarios. The RCM committee recommended a 1-percent budget cut, which was enacted.
Russell requested to present the librar -
ies’ budget review in person, which she also did last year. She said she has not been given a schedule yet for this year’s presen-tation. UF libraries propose three budget options for annual review 
Howard III
“I would be extremely surprised 
to find that we had a 5-percent cut.”
Judy Russell
Dean of University Libraries MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 17
Alex Catalano / Alligator Staff
Mass on the Grass 
UF Alum Andrew Gordon and fellow Gator Christian Life members 
play guitars Sunday afternoon on the Plaza of the Americas. “We’re excited to see what good things God will bring in the new semester,” he said.
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Since fall classes ended Dec. 7, UF has used its 
emergency alert system on two occasions. Both 
times, the administration was pleased with how quickly text messages were sent to students and employees.
UF administration used the emergency system 
on Dec. 9 to 10 and on Dec. 20, sending a pair of messages in each incident. A message is first sent to a company that takes the message and distrib-utes it to every wireless carrier. Then, the message is delivered to phones of students and employees registered with the emergency alert system.
Of the four messages delivered in December, 
the slowest reached the aggregator at 2 minutes, 1 second, said UF Emergency Management Coordi-nator Kenneth Allen. The fastest message reached it at 1 minute, 52 seconds.
The time represents how long it took for the last 
message to be sent to the aggregator, not the first one or the average time.
“Looking at it is like looking at a freight train,” 
Allen said. “That time is how long it takes the whole train to pass by, not just the front of the train.”
Allen said he is pleased with the delivery times 
and doesn’t expect any major changes to the sys-tem. He said the university is always looking to make tweaks. However, the administration won’t change its methods in light of the murder-suicide that happened at Virginia Tech last month.
UF has sent 17 messages in the last two years, all 
of which have been delivered faster than six min-utes. The university last changed the emergency alert system in July when the school added Infor -
maCast software, which allows UF to send a mes-sage through several platforms, including email, social media and the school’s website, at one time.
Previously , an individual message had to be 
sent to each platform.
Students and employees received a message 
sent at 11:06 p.m. on Dec. 9 after an attempted rape was reported near the Campus USA Credit Union at 1200 SW 5th Ave. A separate pair of messages came on Dec. 20 after a shooting was reported in the Stone Quarters apartment complex at 645 NE Waldo Road, which is about 1.6 miles southwest of east campus.
Although the men involved in the shooting had 
no ties to UF, an emergency message was sent “out of an abundance of caution,” said UPD spokes-man Maj. Brad Barber. When the shooting was first reported, the department did not know what the shooter was trying to do or where he was going. 
In response, UPD surrounded the east campus. 
The department sent extra officers from the main campus, though two weeks later, Barber couldn’t recall how many extra officers were brought in.
To increase your chances of quickly receiving 
an emergency message, you can follow UF Alert on Facebook and Twitter. UF administration pleased with 
speed of emergency alert system
Here is how UF’s Emergency Management 
System works:
UF uses a software called InformaCast to send 
an emergency message through several platforms, 
including the university website, email, Facebook, etc.
That message is sent through InformaCast to 
Blackboard Connect ED, a vendor that manages UF’s text message service.
Blackboard Connect ED then sends the mes-
sage to an aggregator, which delivers the message to every wireless carrier.18, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
AP Photo
Current Jets offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer (right), who 
is reportedly in the running for UF’s vacancy at offensive coordinator, talks to quarterback Mark Sanchez (6) on Jan. 1.  
� DILLMAN JOINS UF STAFF AS NEW 
STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING COACH.
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Florida’s next offensive coordinator may already 
be used to wearing orange and blue — just different 
shades.
According to reports, Boise State offensive coordi-
nator Brent Pease is the frontrunner to take the reins of Florida’s offense next season and replace Charlie Weis, who left the Gators for the head coaching gig at Kansas.
The Idaho Statesman reported Friday that Pease, 
who helped lead the Broncos to the fifth-highest scor -
ing offense in the nation last season at 44.23 points per game, has left Boise State and is weighing offers from both Florida and Alabama.
Pease coached at Boise State for six seasons, first as 
wide receivers coach and then as an assistant head coach before he was named the Broncos’ offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach prior to last season.
Multiple reports suggest that Pease will meet with 
coach Nick Saban on Tuesday after Alabama faces LSU for the BCS title tonight in New Orleans.
While Pease appears to be the favorite to takeover 
play-calling duties in Gainesville, he is not the only can-didate for the opening. New York Jets offensive coordi-nator Brian Schottenheimer is also reportedly in the run-ning for the Gators’ offensive coordinator job.
Unlike Pease, Schottenheimer already has ties to UF, 
as he played quarterback for Steve Spurrier for three seasons and was Danny Wuerffel’s backup during the Gators’ first national championship season in 1996.
Schottenheimer has served as an assistant coach in 
the NFL since 2001 and has been the Jets’ offensive co-ordinator since 2006. The New York Daily News reported Friday that 
Schottenheimer took his name out of consideration for the Florida job, but ESPN’s Adam Schefter reported Sunday that Schottenheimer never removed himself as a candidate.
Following Florida’s 24-17 win against Ohio State in 
the Gator Bowl, coach Will Muschamp said he had “no timetable” for making the new hire and just wants to “make the best decision for Florida.”
Also, interim offensive coordinator Brian White is 
still in the running, but the Florida Times-Union report-ed this week that former UF quarterback Kerwin Bell is no longer being considered. 
Gators hire new strength coach: It didn’t take long 
for Florida to fill the void left by the departure of former strength and conditioning coach Mickey Marotti, who joined Urban Meyer’s staff at Ohio State last month. 
The Gators announced Tuesday the hiring of Jeff 
Dillman, who was the head of physical conditioning at IMG Performance Institute in Bradenton.
“I’m excited to have Jeff join our staff,” Muschamp 
said. “He is a perfect fit for what we were looking for. He has trained athletes at the highest caliber on every level — from high school, to college to the NFL.”
Dillman worked at IMG since 2009, training college 
and professional athletes. Prior to that, he served as the strength and conditioning coach at Appalachian State in 2006 and 2007 when the Mountaineers won back-to-back FCS national titles. He was also on LSU’s staff with Muschamp in 2003 when the Tigers won a BCS title.
“I’m a big believer in doing the little things right,” 
Dillman said. “Every day we will calculate the right at-titude for training. Nothing gets in the way of our goal to be the best that we can be. We will always fight and finish strong — on the field, in the weight room, in the classroom and in life. Hard work beats talent when tal-ent’s not working.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.Search for Weis’ replacement heating up  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-25-11-72-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-25-72-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-25-11-72-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
4-25-11-72-1
$795-2/2 Furnished Apt. On bus route, 1.5 
miles to UF campus. W/D, AC, Cable and in-ternet included. Pool, Fitness ctr., computer lab. No application fee. Yearly and monthly lease. 305-793-4290.   1-25-11-22-1
1Bed/1Bath available in 4/4 in beautiful gated 
Countryside complex. $385/mo incl all utils, cable, internet, etc. Big Screen tv in living room! Available for spring sublease. Shahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com or 754-281-5023   1-13-12-10-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-25-11-72-21/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600$99 Move In Special!352-372-7555FrederickGardens.com4-25-11-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-25-11-72-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-25-11-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
3 Bedroom Houses Starting at $1235
Move In today.  Park Near UF Free!
Call 352-371-7777
4-25-11-72-2
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
4-25-11-72-2Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-11114-25-11-72-2
A TIME FOR CHANGE…
1/1 • 758 sf • $625 • water/sewer incl.Great pools • Fitness • TennisCall for available 2’s, 3’s, 4’sBivensCove.com • 376-2507    4-25-11-72-2
MOVE IN BY JANUARY 5th
2/2: $300 Cash Back
3/3: $500 Cash Back
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
4-25-72-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-25-11-72-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-25-11-72-2College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Studios starting at $509
Across from UF
Call 352-371-7777
4-25-11-72-2
Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com4-25-11-72-2
3/2 House Available Immediately
Near Law School, Shopping, RestaurantsFree UF Parking!352.371.7777                    4-25-11-72-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
20, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 4352-335-4455    4-25-11-72-2
NEED A RENTAL?
CHECK OUT THESE DEALS
Browse our website.
www.trend4rent.com
Call 352-375-7104 today!
1-9-74-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       4-25-11-72-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   4-25-11-72-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
Near UF Campus The Baxter House Historic 
spacious 2 story brick, 4BR/2BA. Custom built with many beautiful, unique features; all the amenities NPets, NS, $1380/month obo + util. Call 275 1259    1-9-12-35-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 NW 2nd Ave - Across from law school
$1650-special spring rate! - 4BR/2BA
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-31-12-16-2
HISTORIC APTS Downtown Pleasant St 
Historic District. 1-3BRs avail now & fall. Ceiling fans, porches, wd flrs, some w/ W/D. ALSO we have 2 & 3BR homes. Cats ok, no dogs. 1st, last, sec. aprleve@aol.com  538-15501-9-11-20-2
Newly renovated very clean, spacious prop-
erty near everything in NW area available for lease. Laundry room, lots of storage space, central H/Ac, fireplace, much more. $890/mo. Call 352-375-6754 or 352-495-6250   1-9-11-15-2
QUIET ngbd close to campus: 2br/2b,
w/d, tile floors, built in storage,
bookcases & desk, lge yard. $800/m.
Call 352-335-7139 for more details.
1-9-11-13-2
Room available for $540/month. Walking 
distance from CAMPUS and MIDTOWN. Separate bathroom, walk-in closet, washer/dryer, wifi. Available for Spring and Summer. Contact 954-562-3578 for questions.   1-9-11-7-2SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
2BR/1.5BA close to UF, Shands,Vet School
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Contact our office to
inquire about student specials!!!!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $650/mo + sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160    1-9-11-7-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting from $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
●1 & 2 bedroom apartments 
●2 - 4 bedroom houses●3BD/2.5BA condoGreat location, fenced yard, all tile.$550-1000/mo - Call (352) 494-89591-9-11-5-2
$325/ 2BR/2BA, 980 sq ft. (Boardwalk Apts) 
Move in Dec 18th. Rent begins Jan 1st. $650 total. Coveted Boardwalk end unit, next to tennis courts & clubhouse/laundry room. On bus route to UF & Shands. Minutes to downtown Gainesville. Provided w/ rent pest control, trash & recycling collection, 24-hour emergency maintenance, unilimited free tan-ning, cardio center, 24 hour laundry room - 2 tennis courts - free parking - jr olympic swim-ming pool. Email me for more information. boardwalkapartment@gmail.com 352-215-3198  2701 SW 13th St. Cats are ok. Dogs are ok.   1-9-11-4-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. $900/mo. 327-2931 or 376-6183     1-9-11-4-2
2BR/1BA House. 1block from NE park 6th 
Terr. Bike to downtown, Publix, Wards, UF. Updated new energy-efficient everything. Fresh paint, spacious rooms & closets. Hardwood floors, patio, fenced yard, W/D, non-smoking. $800/mo. 1st, last, security. Year lease 352-339-5440 8am-8pm   1-9-11-3-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099    2-6-12-21-2
1BR/1.5BA loft in Sparrow Condominiums. 
Totally renovated, very clean & quiet. Perfect for graduate students & professionals. Parking & clubhouse included. Avail 1/15. $575/mo + utils, + sec deposit. 339-4600    1-12-11-5-2
$450 / 1br - This is your new home! 1BR/1BA 
Sublease in a 2BR/2BA Townhome Apartment located in the Laurels (Close to UF). Available Dec/Jan. First month FREE! Call or Text 813-404-3135. Pets are allowed 1-12-5-2
3 Bed House, $900/mo, Vintage Hardwood
floors, Central Air, W/D Hookup
photos at www.rentalworkshop.com
352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
1-13-12-6-2
4 Bed House, $1000/mo,
Vintage Hardwood floors with Key West
Style Porch, W/D Hookups
photos at www.rentalworkshop.com
352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
1-13-12-6-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
1-31-12-16-2Avail Aug 1st. 4 Bed/2 Bath very nice house 
1 block from campus. Modern bathrooms, fireplace, wash/dry provided, wood floors. 1203 SW 1st Ave, $1850/m. 352-339-2342 or gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-13-5-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA great house. 
Fireplace, wash/dry provided, dishwasher, wood floors, fenced. Pets OK. 7 min bike to campus. $1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342. Gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-13-5-2
Bedroom w/ own bathroom avail $365 (un-
furn) or $385 (furn). Price all-inclusive (rent/util/cable/internet). Washer/dryer/dishwasher. Pets ok. On 9/35 bus routes. ~1.5 miles from UF. Student/young professional pref. Avail ASAP . 850-585-4405.            1-9-11-9-3
December FREE! Move in NOW for Spring 
Semester. Cabana Beach--2 bdrm/2 bath, furnished plus W/D. $509/per person. (352) 552 1757.    1-13-11-10-3
$450-1BR/1BA unfurnished in a 2BR/2BA 
Townhome Style Apt. Avail. NOW, Jan. RENT FREE!!Pets OK. Roommate is Grad. student at UF. Located in the Laurels. Call or text (813) 404-3135 if interested.   1-13-12-5-3
1/1 in 2/2 BR + util $470/mo
2 pools + club houses, gym 24/7Near Oaks Mall, UF + SFCInternet, W/D, on bus routePlease call 352-871-6065    1-17-12-6-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $369/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-24-12-24-4
MOVE IN NOW- Need 1 male student to share 
4/4 Countryside condo, near poolside. Easy commute UF/SFC, 2 bus rtes, furn common area, W/D. unfurn $365/obo furn avail. Text 386-233-0011, ph 386-676-9703, nukken1@aol.com1-9-11-11-4
Bedroom w/ own bathroom avail $365 (un-
furn) or $385 (furn). Price all-inclusive (rent/util/cable/internet). Washer/dryer/dishwasher. Pets ok. On 9/35 bus routes. ~1.5 miles from UF. Student/young professional pref. Avail ASAP . 850-585-4405.               1-9-11-9-4
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
Male roommate needed - 4 BR house, 14 
blks from campus. Safe & secure NW neigh-borhood. Great deck & yard. Clean, nicely furn, new appl, $575/mo incl util, w/d. AJ 561.718.5567     1-9-11-6-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 1-9-11-6-4
STUDENTS NEEDED - TOWNHOUSE
W/D, clubhouse, pool, gated, parking, on bus route. $350/mo + utils per room. Available December. Call 727-729-1561   1-9-11-5-4Roommates needed. House 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row, near Shands, Tigert, Mid/Downtown. 4 lg BR/2BA. Students preferred! Huge, very clean home. Cent AC/H, FP , W/D, new wd flrs, DW, 5 extra closets, fenced yard, plenty of parking, on quiet street. Only $398/mo/room. Call/text Jordan 305-896-90661-31-19-4
Master bed/bath, 3/2 house $450/month (ne-
gotiable) 1.5 miles from UF. SW Gainesville. Share with 1 grad student. Garage, washer/dryer, fenced in yard, pets welcome. adit-son@ufl.edu 727-409-7806    1-10-3-4
Student roommate needed for furnished bed-
room w/own bath in 4/4 Countryside condo. Rent by the semister. Easy commute UF/SFC, 2 bus rts, W/D. $300 includes cable & Internet. 352 239 2422.    1-13-12-5-4
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
2BR/2BA CONDO
3843 SW 28th Terr. Close to campus. 352-516-2545    1-9-11-3-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
1-30-12-15-5
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
 MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 21
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
1-9-70-7
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
Designer Fashions from $6.00 on
www.shoppernista.com
1-9-12-2-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
●●● BK CHRISTMAS TREES ●●●
Potted Red Cedar & Arizona Cypress; 3 ft to 13 ft; $5 to $65. Free pecans & sugar cane. 20926 NW 75th St., Alachua, 10am-6pm, 7 days. 386-462-2060    1-9-11-10-10Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
WEIDER PRO HOME WEIGHT SYSTEM
Get fit in the privacy of home.10 lbs - 110 lbs dual weights.Bench-press, Leg-curls, Butterfly.Like new! $399/OBO. Call 352-271-8730    1-9-11-2-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I BUY JUNK CARS & SCRAP
TOP PRICES PAID!
Call Anytime 352-443-11001-31-11-65-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-1296 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      1-9-11-72-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
VOLUNTEERING IN MEXICO
Wanted English Instructor. ($300 Fee - cov-
ers transportation, room, board for 10 days) www.goodnewscorps.org 904-402-2377    1-9-11-6-13
22, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
Volunteer Needed:
HOPE - Horses Helping People, Inc. is seek-ing volunteers for our winter/spring semester sessions.  Please email us at ridingtherapy@gmail.com to become a part of our team.  www.horseshelpingpeople.org   1-13-5-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
INTERN
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by The Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent Florida Alligator
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applying to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SFC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator,
1105 W. University Avenue,
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
advertising@alligator.org.
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump started!
EEO/AA.
1-9-11-15-14
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Earn $1000-$3200 per month
to drive our cars with ads.
www.FreeCarJobs.com    1-9-11-11-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226  sandysresale.com  1-9-11-74-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14VIDEO TECH
ACCOUNTING EDITORAVIATION EDITORPROOFREADERLINUX ADMINACT COORDINATORGRAPHICS DESIGNERAVIATION SALESSOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Career and non-career positions available.
Please apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment             1-24-27-14
 
Sanford Office looking for General Dentist 
to work with a great team. Part-Time(one-two days a week)Position available as soon as possible. fax Resume to (407) 324-9229    1-10-11-17-14
MOVIE EXTRAS
To stand in the background for a major film. 
Experience not required. Earn up to $300/day. All looks needed. 877-568-7064    1-9-11-16-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   1-9-11-12-14
RGIS INVENTORY SPECIALISTS
Part-time hourly workFlexible schedules$8 an hour to startApply online at RGIS.COM     1-9-11-10-14
NOW HIRING
Outstanding Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2012
ADV3008         ENT3003               MAR3023
BSC2010         ENY1001               MUH4016BSC2011         FOS2001               PSY2012BUL4310         GEB3373               RTV3405ECO2013        MAN3025               STA2023ECO2023        MAN4504          … and more!
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-23-11-15-14
WEB DEVELOPERS - Multiple Openings
Internet company in downtown Gainesville seeks talented full-time site builders. Front end and/or back end. HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL. High pay, fun environment! Send resume to hr@digitalbrands.com.   1-12-11-10-14
TUTORS FOR SPRING 1-on-1 tutoring at-
risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net1-9-11-5-14
APP WRITER NEEDED
Author needs app writer. Send samples of 
your work to: ekx@inaugurals.com   1-9-11-4-14
baby sitter for a 5 yr old, part time, flexible 
hrs, second language, cooking skills a plus, references, email resume toavgeorgieva@hotmail.com    1-10-12-3-14
Office Ass’t–F/T- passion for reading/fit-
ness/detail/WallStreet. Eye for change. 1 year+ commitment. Resume to: 626 N.E. 1st Street, 32601 or paulsrothstein@gmail.com   1-9-11-2-14
LAW STUDENT– EXCELLENT WRITING 
SKILLS. . 1 year+ commitment.Resume to: 626 N.E. 1st Street, 32601or paulsrothstein@gmail.com    1-9-11-2-14
Interpreter/Translator - PT - 10 hrs/wk - Law 
Office needs Spanish-English interpreter. Resume to: robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.    1-17-12-7-14A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
Data entry/clerical position FT
ECG Department.Please apply in person.Institute of Veterinary Spec3603 NW 98th St. Suite A.    1-13-5-14
Homework Coach Wanted- 1 on 1 help 
needed for bright 6th grade student with ADD. $10/hr, afternoons Sunday - Thursday. 15 minute drive from campus. email resume and references to Tina @ t.anzivino@aol.com   1-13-5-14
Sports Director for i9 Sports. Flexible hrs w/ 
20-25 hrs a week required. Must love kids, 
sports, and have a self motivating attitude. 
Great experience for Sports Mgmt students. 
Send resume to jhetzel@i9sports.com.   
1-20-9-14
Online video internet marketing company 
wants you!! easy,fun and exciting. earn big commissions plus bonuses. part time hours equals full time pay!! we will be in the gaines-ville area on sunday 1/15/12 showing "the opportunity of a lifetime". seating is limited and filling up fast so please rsvp by texting 386-931-3477 for time and location   1-13-12-5-14
NANNY NEEDED for 2: ages 2 & 4yrs must 
be able to travel: starts Jan 9; 2wks/mon/min; 40hrs/wk @$12/hr. Noah's Ark Nanny: email res., pix & sched to: info@noahsarknanny.com   1-13-5-14
FT NANNIES NEEDED NOW: 18 mon/
triplets; M-F 8-5; prev. exp; LONG TERM COMMIT ONLY! Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix, & schedule to info@noah-sarknanny.com   1-13-5-14
Bookkeeper-Receptionist for immigration law 
firm. Must know MS Office & Quickbooks. Spanish a plus. Full or Part time. Resume to robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.   1-13-12-5-14
Needed-tutor for my ADHD 14 year old son 
in ninth grade.He needs help with reading and math. The position pays $15/hr three nights a week. Please contact me atyoungc97@gmail.com    1-11-12-3-14
NANNY AGENCY NEEDS NANNIES! Must 
have experience, be able to pass a drug test, background check, driving record check, and have child care references. We hire only the best. kristy@twinkletoesnanny.com   1-13-12-5-14
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15A Woman's Answer Medical Center
Think you might be pregnant?
Testing, confidential advising
Referrals
352-376-2716
1-9-11-74-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   1-9-11-11-16
GET FIT W/ GARY!
Over 15yr exp. CPT available for you now! Trained Ms. Florida; US Military; and various gyms. Best rates in GV area ever! $20 - stu-dent, $30 - median wage earners $40 - pro-fessionals. Call for more info: 386-867-00001-13-12-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
Best religion? NO religion! Get to know your 
Creator. See why the Bible is unique. Try "www.godonthe.net/evidence/codes.htm" (entire page). You Tube. "Chuck Missler Isaiah 53 Bible Code" and "Chuck Missler Hidden Torah Message Bible Code".   1-9-11-9-18
GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10441-9-10-74-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
★★★ TIS THE SEASON TO TILL! ★★★
Chauncey will till a garden cheaper than it would cost to rent a tiller. Veggies or flowers - makes it better. Call Chauncey, Gardner 352-214-1767   1-9-11-4-15
Events of 50+ planned? Get a Certified 
Gainesville Crowd Manager. Feel free to call for rates more info and availability.......@ 352 318 9262. GFR Risk Reduction Bureau Certification# 120920090101-10-2-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
The search for Charlie Weis’ 
replacement is starting to heat up, as Brent Pease and Brian Schottenheimer (left) have entered the discussion. See story, page 18.  
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Freshman Brad Beal (23) has been mired in a slump, shooting 29.8 
percent in his last four games. UF lost two of those contests. 
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Two years ago, Florida guard 
Kenny Boynton went through it. 
He shot 28.6 percent from three as a freshman and had just as many turnovers as assists.
During his first year at Provi-
dence in 1983-84, so did UF coach Billy Donovan. He hit just 36.8 percent of his shots as a freshman guard.
Now, it is Brad Beal’s turn.“His confidence is probably 
down right now,” Boynton said. “I know my freshman year my confi-dence was down, because in high school you shot so well and aver -
aged so many points that it’s just different.”
As perhaps the most highly-
touted guard recruit Florida has ever landed, the 6-foot-3, 207 pound Beal has dealt with high expecta-tions all season long.
Through his first two months in 
a Gators uniform, Beal rose to his lofty billing by averaging 15.1 points per game on 45-percent shooting. His three Southeastern Conference Freshman of the Week honors are the most of any league rookie. But when it came time for his ac-
tual in-conference debut Saturday at Tennessee, Beal landed with a dud.
He accounted for five of Flor -
ida’s 15 turnovers in a 67-56 loss, scored nine points and was 4 for 12 from the field, including 1 of 5 on 3-pointers.
“He’s a freshman. He’s going 
to have ups and downs,” Donovan said. “He’s going to have growing 
pains. It’s part of 
the growth and the development process for him.”
Since grab-
bing his last SEC honor following a 21-point per -
formance against Florida State, 
Beal’s game has spiraled down-ward in Florida’s past four contests. UF lost two of those games — at Rutgers and at Tennessee.
During his slump, Beal has hit 
just 29.8 percent of 47 shots. He has also seen his decision making slip with 14 turnovers to nine assists.
“If there’s one thing that I’d like 
to see him clean up — he was prob-ably the one guy — the turnovers is something again that he’s got to get better at,” Donovan said.
Donovan has referred to Beal as 
the most advanced freshman he has ever been around and has trusted the young guard with a large work-load early this season.
While Beal is now leading Flori-
da in turnovers with an average of 2.6 per game, he is also being called on to play the most minutes on the team and help carry the rebounding burden. His 33.9 minutes per game are the second highest in the SEC and he leads the Gators in defensive rebounds with 76 — nine more than starting center Patric Young.
“He’s got to go through it,” Don-
ovan said. “He’s got to learn. As good and as talented as he is, he’s going to have those kind of ups and downs.”
Though Beal has hit just 31.4 per -
cent of his threes, the lowest average of any Gator with more than one at-tempt, Boynton said he believes it is a matter of time before Beal finally settles in at the college level.
“(I tell him to) keep his head 
on,” Boynton said. “There’s gonna come a game, I can’t tell you which one, but there’s gonna come a game where Brad’s gonna shoot it well, and I just think it’s just confidence with him.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.
Beal working through freshman slump
END OF GREGULATION
There are numerous stats that illus-
trate Florida’s road woes this season, but they don’t nearly tell the whole 
story. 
Sure, posting a combined 50 assists and 
69 turnovers in road losses to Ohio State, Syracuse, Rutgers and Tennessee is a prob-lem. Especially after UF recorded 227 as-sists and 119 turnovers in its 12 wins, each of which came in the state of Florida. 
On the road, Florida has shot 42.9 per -
cent and 37.1 percent from 3-point range. Otherwise, the Gators are shooting 48.9 percent from the field and 42 percent from beyond the arc. 
Even the defense’s numbers have 
dropped off in enemy territory. Outside the state, the Gators allow opponents to shoot 46.6 percent, despite holding teams to 40.3 percent in 12 wins. 
But the difference between Gators at 
home and Gators on the road appears to be something much, much simpler. And it’s something that the numbers don’t nec-essarily say. 
It’s comfort. To some extent the 
cliché is true: basket-ball is basketball. 
The Gators run 
the same offense on the road as at home — filled with side pick and rolls, baseline screens and high-low post action. 
But when UF has to operate away from 
home, it’s just … different. 
When Erving Walker comes off an Erik 
Murphy screen and Murphy pops out to the 3-point line while Patric Young posts in-side and Brad Beal spots up from the wing, there’s a momentary hesitation. Maybe it’s a lack of confidence inspired by opposing defenses and their fans, or maybe it’s some kind of mental hiccup inspired by a night in a hotel room in an unfamiliar city. Florida’s enigmatic road 
struggles no reason to panic 
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Writer
 
ST. PETERSBURG — Four-star de-
fensive end Jordan Jenkins doesn’t say 
“hella” — he’s more of a y’all kind of 
guy.
Transplanted to Hamilton, Ga., from 
Washington, Jenkins said it has been funny listening to the idiosyncratic dif-ferences between the West and East Coast Under Armour All-America play-ers this week.
“One of the signature words that lets 
you tell if someone is from California or Washington or something like that is ... if they start saying ‘hella.’ I’ve gotten sort of into that Southern drawl a little bit.”
Jenkins had an explosive night for Team Highlight at Tropicana Field Thursday night in the Under Armour All-America Game, putting up eight tackles and two sacks.
He has been a major target for Flor -
ida commits recently, with his decision between Alabama and Florida to be an-nounced today.
“I definitely haven’t made my deci-
sion yet,” Jenkins said. “A lot of think-ing, a lot of stress, and a big earful from my dad (will happen during the deci-sion-making process this weekend).”Gators commits, targets 
shine in all-star game
SEE GREG, p AGE 27SEE REcRUIT , pAGE 24Beal
“I definitely haven’t made my 
decision yet.”
Jordan Jenkins
four-star DE recruitLeads team in turnovers
Greg Luca
twitter: @greglucaREcRUITING
Poll Results
Should Will Muschamp hire Brian 
White to be the Gators offensive coordinator?72% NO
28% YES
43 total votesPoll Question
Can Tim Tebow lead the Broncos to the AFC Championship by beating Tom Brady and the Patriots this weekend? Vote online at 
alligatorSports.org. 24, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
Maye, Poole set game records
Jenkins also confirmed he would visit 
with UF coaches after the game, after an in-
vite from defensive coordinator Dan Quinn.
“I definitely feel honored because I’m not 
even a commit and they want me to come down,” Jenkins said.
Maye excels: For Florida oral commit 
Marcus Maye, the Under Armour All-Amer -
ica game was about redemption.
The four-star prospect out of Melbourne 
saw his senior season at Holy Trinity end due to a foot injury.
Maye, although recruited as a safety, daz-
zled at the outside linebacker position. He tallied five tackles and two assists as well as a fumble recovery in the first half. Maye also blocked a punt that went for a safety, the first safety in the 5-year history of the game. 
To participate in the Under Armour 
game, which his Team Blur dominated in a 49-16 win, was a “one-in-a-lifetime opportu-nity,” Maye said.
“Definitely been through a little ups and 
downs and stuff like that, but I’m all healed. ... I was glad to be back on the field. The way I went out on top this year — I couldn’t ask for anything else.”
Thompson working targets: Gators oral 
commit Colin Thompson celebrated Team Blur’s rout of Team Highlight by, well, go-ing to Disney World.
He spent Friday at the theme park with 
his family: members of a party of 40 that traveled from his hometown in Warminster, Pa., to see him play in the Under Armour game.The four-star tight end had a catch for 
16 yards in the third quarter, and used his 6-foot-5, 255-pound frame to make a big im-pact blocking for Team Blur.
Thompson has also been making an im-
pact on the recruiting trail for UF, talking up the Gators to other undecided All-Americans throughout the past few days.
“To put names with faces and actu-
ally meeting the guys is what I really care about,” he said. “I’ll recruit the guys that are great people over a player who may be bet-ter than them. Those are the people I want to play with.”
Poole sets record: Brian Poole hasn’t yet 
signed his letter of intent, but he is already breaking Gators’ records.
In the first quarter, his 93-yard pick-six set 
an Under Armour All-America game record for longest touchdown play, a mark previ-ously held by current Gator Andre Debose.
“My instincts just took me to it, and once 
the ball hit my hands, I already had in my mind I was going to the house,” Poole said of the play. “It’s a great opportunity to be in the record book, so I’m excited about it.”
Poole and Maye, both on the victorious 
Team Blur, had monster performances.
“I feel like we made a huge statement,” 
he said, also expressing his pride in his fu-ture teammates as well.
“It was awesome — all us came out, 
made a lot of plays, had a lot of fun. I mean, we just showing the future of the program at Florida.” 
Oral commitments are nonbinding until a 
national letter of intent is signed on or after Na-tional Signing Day on Feb. 1, 2012. RECRUIT , from page 23Under Armour All-America game statistics
COMMITS
Brian Poole, four-star CB. Bradenton Southeast High. 5'11”, 187 lbs.Poole's 93-yard pick-six run set an Under Armour All-America game record for an interception return and set the record for the longest touchdown play. He also had a tackle.
Marcus Maye, four-star DB. Melbourne Holy Trinity High. 6'1”, 195 
lbs.Maye had a blocked punt that resulted in a safety, the ﬁ  rst in the game’s ﬁ  ve-yearhistory. He also had seven tackles, a breakup and a block.
Colin Thompson, four-star TE. Warminster (Pa.) Archbishop Wood 
Catholic. 6'5”,255 lbs.Thompson had just one catch for 16 yards.
Latroy Pittman, four-star WR. Citra North Marion High. 6'1”, 190 lbs.
Pittman had one catch for 13 yards.
Austin Hardin, two-star K. Atlanta (Ga.) Marist School. 5'11”, 200lbs.
Hardin had 527 kickoff yards on eight kickoffs, but he struggled with place kicks due to holding issues. He missed a 44-yard ﬁ  eld goal and two PATs.Jessamen Dunker, four-star OL. Boynton Beach High. 6'6”, 325 lbs.Dunker impressed in the game, registering multiple pancake blocks.
TARGETS
Jordan Jenkins, four-star DE. Hamilton (Ga.) Harris County High. 6'3”, 245 lbs.Jenkins had eight total tackles and two sacks, tying Omar Hunter's record for sacks in the Under Armour game. He is also considering Alabama, Auburn and Georgia.Leonard Williams, four-star DE. Daytona Beach Mainland High. 6'5”, 254 lbs.Williams, the No. 11 defensive end recruit in the country, registered a tackle and asack in the game. He is also considering Auburn and USC.Nelson Agholor, ﬁ  ve-star WR. Tampa Berkeley Prep. 6'2”, 180 lbs.Agholor, the No. 11 overall recruit in the nation, did not play in the game due to ashoulder injury.Under Armour All-American game statistics
UF Commits
UF TargetsBrian Poole,  four-star CB. Bradenton Southeast High. 5’11”, 187 lbs.
Poole’s 93-yard pick-six set an Under Armour All-America game record for an 
interception return and for the longest touchdown play. He also had a tackle.
Marcus Maye , four-star DB. Melbourne Holy Trinity High. 6’1”, 195 lbs.
Maye had a blocked punt that resulted in a safety, the ﬁ  rst in the game’s ﬁ  ve-year
history. He also had seven tackles, a breakup and a block.
Colin Thompson , four-star TE. Warminster (Pa.) Archbishop Wood High. 6’5”,255 
lbs. Thompson, the No. 8 tight end recruit, had one catch for 16 yards.
Latroy Pittman , four-star WR. Citra North Marion High. 6’1”, 190 lbs.
Pittman, the No. 33 receiver prospect nationally, had one catch for 13 yards.Austin Hardin , two-star K. Atlanta (Ga.) Marist School. 5’11”, 200lbs.
Hardin had 527 kickoff yards on eight kickoffs, but he struggled with place kicks 
due to holding issues. He missed a 44-yard ﬁ  eld goal and two PATs.
Jessamen Dunker , four-star OL. Boynton Beach Community High. 6’6”, 325 lbs.
Dunker impressed in the game, registering multiple pancake blocks.
Jordan Jenkins , four-star DE. Hamilton (Ga.) Harris County High. 6’3”, 245 lbs.
Jenkins had eight total tackles and two sacks, tying Omar Hunter’s record for 
sacks in the Under Armour game. He is also considering Alabama, Auburn and Georgia.
Leonard Williams , four-star DE. Daytona Beach Mainland High. 6’5”, 254 lbs.
Williams, the No. 11 defensive end recruit in the country, registered a tackle and a
sack in the game. He is also considering Auburn and USC.
Nelson Agholor , ﬁ  ve-star WR. Tampa Berkeley Prep. 6’2”, 180 lbs.
Agholor, the No. 11 overall recruit in the nation, did not play in the game due to a
shoulder injury.
Maegan Dennis / Alligator Staff MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 25
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Sophomore wide receiver Andre Debose smiles as he accepts the trophy for 
Most Valuable Player at the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville on Jan. 2. 
Muschamp sends seniors out with bittersweet win, looks to future 
FOOTBALL , from page 1
sprinted down the sidelines before meeting special 
teams coordinator D.J. Durkin in midair with a fly-ing chest bump.   
Fortunately for the Gators, the celebrating out-
weighed the screaming last Monday . That wasn’t the case for most of this season. And so at the end, standing on that stage, Muschamp might not have had energy for a long speech. But even in his brief time with the microphone, he didn’t hesitate to look forward to next fall.
“It takes time, and I appreciate your patience,” 
Muschamp said to the fans who stayed after the game. “I’mma tell you what: We’re gonna have a better football team next year because of these young men you’ve got right here.”
Fitting then, that sophomore receiver Andre De-
bose soon took the stage to accept the game’s MVP trophy . Debose, whose 99-yard kickoff return for a touchdown gave Florida a 14-7 edge in the second quarter, has proven to be the team’s most explosive playmaker the past two seasons.
And come this summer, when preseason publica-
tions start showing up in grocery stores, Debose will be seen as the focal player for Florida’s 2012 offense. Analysts will undoubtedly ask a simple question: Can Debose put it all together and become “an elite playmaker,” as Urban Meyer once described him?
After all, he was second on the team with five 
touchdowns this season, but he only caught 16 pass-es. Debose, of course, will be an expert at answering consistency questions during the preseason. He has heard them after every game in which he has found the end zone, be it through special teams or a deep pass. The Gator Bowl was no different.
“I just try to do anything that I can do to help the 
team,” he said after the game. “You know, I had an opportunity (last Monday) to help the team a lot, so it feels great. There’s no feeling like it.”
But for all the talk about the future, the Gator 
Bowl was also an opportunity for UF’s seniors, who watched the program fall from elite to mediocre the last two years, to go out with a bittersweet victory .  
Before leaving the field, defensive tackle Jaye 
Howard hugged a couple of assistant coaches. Howard, who labored in his first couple years be-fore emerging as a consistent force in 2010, finished his final college game with 1.5 sacks.
In all, the defense registered a season-high six 
sacks on Ohio State quarterback Braxton Miller. That was the type of effort fans envisioned before the season, when the sophomore trio of Domin-ique Easley, Sharrif Floyd and Ronald Powell were hyped as some of the most talented linemen in the country. However, the pass rush proved to be mere-ly mediocre this season, finishing sixth in the SEC with 22 sacks.
But there is hope for the future. Howard too was 
once a touted recruit playing below expectations.
“They’re going to have a bright future next year, 
and I wish them guys the best,” said Howard.
And of course, as Muschamp and Debose stood 
on the stage, as linemen took pictures and How-ard celebrated, there was John Brantley, ending his career in an appropriately nondescript manner. Brantley , the quarterback whose realized potential always seemed to be waiting in the world of “next year,” stood away from the pack, his hands hooked on his shoulder pads, wearing a Gator Bowl hat and chatting with a photographer.
Last season, Brantley never could play well 
enough to peel Tim Tebow’s shadow off of him. 
This season, Brantley couldn’t stay healthy enough to score a signature victory . And so, in the last game of his career, the man who was supposed to bring an aerial assault to Florida got the victory as a modest game manag-
er, finishing 12 of 16 for 132 yards and a touchdown. Florida scored two of its three touchdowns on 
special teams.
Brantley certainly didn’t play badly, but the per -
formance will be quickly forgotten by most. If UF wants to return to its former self, it doesn’t have time to reflect. Undoubtedly , fans will be watching this spring to see who can replace Brantley, expecting the new quarterback to not simply fill the redshirt senior’s shoes but to lace up a much larger pair.
Fans will expect the new quarterback to take 
Florida to greater heights, because that’s what fans always expect. And so does Muschamp, though he knows going into his second season just how much work has to be done.
“In the last two years at the University of Florida 
we’re 15-11,” Muschamp said. “That’s unacceptable. … Sometimes I think you got to put your realistic glasses on where you are and what you are as a pro-gram right at this point. It’s not where we’re going to be very long. I can assure you of that.”
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.
Muschamp
26, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
 MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 27
Women’s basketball
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
After a 16-point second half defi-
cit was trimmed to three, back-to-
back missed one-and-one attempts by South Carolina gave Florida the chance to complete its comeback.
The only problem was the Game-
cocks rebounded both shots, dash-ing the Gators’ hopes of a successful second-half rally.
“You have to credit South Caro-
lina for those free-throw rebounds mattering more to them than they did to us,” coach Amanda Butler said. “There clearly was a break-down. It’s really hard to under -
stand.”
The Gators lost to the Gamecocks 
49-44 on Sunday in the O’Connell Center, dropping their second con-secutive Southeastern Conference home game. While the final score saw Florida (11-5, 1-2 SEC) fall five points short of South Carolina (14-2, 3-0 SEC), a tightly contested finish was in doubt after the first half.
The Gamecocks went into the 
break leading 31-15, scoring 13 points off 14 Gators turnovers.
“It was a very frustrating game, 
especially that first half,” Butler said. “Some of the things we’ve got to fig-ure out (include), ‘Why are we start-ing games so poorly?’ I’m not sure.”
While UF managed to win the 
battle on the boards 19-15 in the first 20 minutes, South Carolina out-scored Florida 16-10 in the paint.  
The Gators’ luck down low 
changed after halftime largely due to the play of junior forward Jenni-fer George. She scored 12 of her 16 points and pulled down eight of her 11 rebounds in the second half.
George’s performance — which 
included a season-high six blocks — was her eighth consecutive double-
double.
“Finish con-
sistently with contact,” George said of ways UF’s paint play can improve. “Even though they’re not calling fouls, 
we still need to finish.”
George was the Gators’ lone of-
fensive threat in the post, accounting for 76 percent of the points scored by UF’s frontcourt.
Center Azania Stewart and for -
wards Ndidi Madu and Lily Svete combined for just five points and three rebounds.
“(George’s) post partners have 
got to help her out,” Butler said. “In particular, we need Azania to step up and make some plays on the of-fensive end.”
Butler has maintained through-
out the season that due to the nature of her guard-heavy squad, Florida’s outside players would need to help crash the boards.
Senior guards Deana Allen and 
Lanita Bartley pulled down 10 and six rebounds, respectively , but it was not enough to put the Gators over the top. South Carolina fin-ished with a 39-37 advantage on the glass, including a 16-12 edge on the offensive boards.
“We’ve got to get ourselves sec-
ond chances on offense,” Butler said. “We’ve got to have more perimeter rebounding other than just from Deana.”
Florida had several opportunities 
to complete its comeback late in the second half, but failed partly due to a reliance on outside shooting.
In the game’s final five minutes, 
George attempted — and made — just one shot, which she took after rebounding a missed jumper from Allen with 22 seconds left.
South Carolina’s guard play de-
fensively presented UF struggles in getting the ball to George down the stretch, Butler said. 
“They did a really good job of 
pressuring the ball and that was certainly what we expected to hap-pen,” Butler said. “But we just didn’t handle it with a lot of composure.” 
Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@
alligator.org.
Gators’ bid for comeback against ‘Cocks spoiled in final seconds
And it’s not just Walker. The whole team is guilty. “I think we play different on the road,” Kenny Boynton 
said. “I think our chemistry is better at home, instead of on the road.”
Saying that a team lacks chemistry is a pretty damning 
assessment, one this team has not necessarily earned. The Gators have shown they can play well in the O’Connell Center, where crisp passing and strong decision-making lead to open shots and easy baskets. 
There’s no reason that chemistry should change on the 
road. Again, it’s the same players running the same plays. By that logic, there’s no reason the Gators can’t get these issues straightened out. 
And, if you want to look at the issue through Orange and Blue glasses, maybe things aren’t as bad as they seem. First off, it goes without saying that every team plays bet-ter at home than it does on the road. 
The first two losses came against Ohio State and Syra-
cuse, two of the top five teams in college basketball. Ten-nessee and Rutgers aren’t powerhouses, but they’re better than every other team Florida has played aside from Ari-zona, Florida State and maybe Texas A&M. 
And, in each of the four losses, Florida has been a strange kind of unlucky. 
Against Syracuse and Ohio State they were legitimate-
ly outplayed, but against Rutgers and Tennessee it felt like everything went against them. Rough bounces, bad calls, players like Rutgers’ Eli Carter making inexplicable, acrobatic, off-balance prayers. 
And, on the other end, it feels like there’s been a lid on 
Florida’s rim. Beal has exemplified these problems, shoot-ing 32.7 percent on the road and 45.1 percent otherwise. He’s also posted 22 turnovers and just four assists in those four losses, perhaps a product of simple freshman jitters. 
The sum of it all is that, with only four games to judge, 
it’s impossible to say whether Florida’s road struggles are an unfortunate anomaly sure to pass or a legitimate prob-lem that needs to be fixed. 
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.
GReG , from page 23butler
“I think we play different on the road. I think 
our chemistry is better at home, instead of on 
the road.” 
Kenny Boynton
UF guard28, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
