VOLUME 106 ISSUE 82 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Commission candidates by the numbers
The Alligator looks at campaign contributions, pg 3.  
Florida congressmen drop support for anti-piracy bills
Opposition from the public surged during the blackout, pg 5. 
JON SILMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
The victim of a brutal home-inva-
sion robbery in northern Gainesville 
died Wednesday afternoon.
Paul Quandt, 78, died shortly after 
3 p.m. when family members made 
the decision to remove him from life 
support, according to Gainesville Po-lice Sgt. Joe Raulerson.
The attackers originally faced at-
tempted murder and home invasion with a weapon charges. But Raulerson said the state attorney’s ofﬁ  ce is now considering changing the charges to ﬁ  rst-degree murder.
The home invasion that led to 
Quandt’s death happened late in the evening Jan. 9. Austin M. Jones and his cousin Maranda J. Martin, 22, donned masks and broke into Quandt’s house at 4854 NW 75th Rd. 
They came with two rolls of tape, a 
stun gun and two pistols. Martin used to work for a health-care service that provided aid to Quandt, police said. She knew he had a safe in the house. 
When Quandt, a military veteran, 
refused to give the pair the safe’s com-bination, he was beaten, his hands were taped and he was shot with a stun gun.
Jones and Martin took the safe  with 
more than $20,000 worth of gold, sil-ver, ﬁrearms, cur-rency and electron-ics in it and put it in the trunk of Quan-dt’s white Cadillac. 
After the pair 
ﬂ  ed, Quandt used cooking oil to loos-
en the tape on his hands, and he man-aged to crawl to his scooter and tell a neighbor what happened before slip-ping into a coma.
Police arrested Jones after a high-
speed chase that ended in a three-car collision that night, and Martin turned 
herself in to police the next day.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS and MEREDITH RUTLAND
Alligator Staff Writers
The majority of the Gainesville City Commission has cho-
sen to ﬁ  nancially support the opponent of a current commis-
sioner’s mentee.
Four commissioners have donated to Yvonne Hinson-
Rawls, who is running for the District 1 seat on the Gainesville 
City Commission, despite the fact that current District 1 Com-
missioner Scherwin Henry has  mentored, publicly endorsed and donated to District 1 candidate Armando Grundy.
Mayor Craig Lowe, Commissioner Jeanna Mastrodicasa, 
Commissioner Susan Bottcher and Commissioner Thomas Hawkins have donated to Hinson-Rawls’ campaign, accord-ing to campaign ﬁ  nance reports from the ofﬁ  ce of the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections.
Though they are all commissioners, Lowe said they don’t 
always have the same opinions.
“I respect Mr. Henry and his decision to endorse Mr. Grun-
dy ,” Lowe said. “But I happen to believe Mrs. Hinson-Rawls is the best candidate.” 
Henry said part of the voting process is being able to sup-
port any candidate.
“People like candidates for different reasons,” Henry said. 
“As for why my other colleagues are supporting one of [Grun-dy’s] opponents, I have no clue.”
Henry told the Alligator in November that Grundy has 
worked hard to prepare himself for the role on the commis-sion.
Lowe said he supports Hinson-Rawls in the District 1 race 
because her understanding of city issues and her ideas on how to approach them are the most “mature.” 
72/44 Adam’s Rib Co. 
sells barbecue to 
family and friends. 
See story, page 8
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Faith Fair
Debbie Vazquez, an 18-year-old English freshman, asks Caitanya Long, who lives in the 
Krishna House, about Bhakti Yoga during the Religion Fair held on the Reitz Union Colon-nade on Wednesday afternoon. Read the story at alligator.org.
ON CAMPUS
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
An experiment gone wrong last week left 
a student with chemical burns to his face and lip, glass embedded in his chest and abdomen, deep cuts to his right hand, two ﬁ  ngers tinted blue and a couple ﬁ  ngertips hanging by the skin.
Khanh Ha told University Police Depart-ment detective Hank Middleton he was con-ducting an experiment in Room 213 of Sisler Hall on Jan. 11 when an explosion occurred after he added water to compounds he was handling, according to a police report re-leased Wednesday.
Ha, a 27-year-old chemistry graduate 
student, was working with two compounds: sodium azide and chlorine glycine GABA acid, according to police. Ha said he had ex-perimented with both before. But when he added water, the compounds exploded.  
Ha, who was working inside a protective 
enclosure called a fume hood, was taken across the hall by two other people in the lab, according to police. When ofﬁ  cer Henri Bel-leville arrived, Ha was washing his hands.
As Belleville approached, he noticed Ha’s lab coat had small holes burned in it. The coat was stained with blood, and there was a puddle of it pooling at Ha’s feet, according to police.
Ha was wearing safety goggles, but Bel-
leville said he wouldn’t open his eyes. He wouldn’t talk either. To answer questions, he only nodded or shook his head.
Ha is in stable condition.
Grad student involved in chemical explosion in stable conditionSEE DONATION, PAGE 4Jones
Robbery victim, 78, dies 
in hospital from injuries
Mayor, city commissioners endorse District 1 candidate
Four commissioners donate to Hinson-Rawls
Murphy maturing for Gators:
Junior forward Erik Murphy has used a series of 
trying events to grow as a player. He leads the team in 3-point shooting percentage, pg. 20. News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 82 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
TODAYFORECAST
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tom Green, Phil Kegler, Greg Luca,   
  Corey McCall, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Karly Kehres, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Angela Hunter,
  Michael Jimenez, Sarah Platt, 
  Brandon Stern, Kristen Strobel,   
  Courtney Sutherland
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerSUNNY
72/44SUNNY
78/50PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/55RAIN
79/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
80/53MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Foreign Language Organization 
First General Body Meeting
Today, 7:30 p.m.Matherly Hall, Room 107Come out to the first general body meeting of the UF Foreign Language Organization to learn how to become a foreign language learner or facilitator. Language sessions are free, of-
fered at many levels and lan-
guages are generally held after most scheduled classes. English is usually offered as well. 
RUB Presents: Drive
Today 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.Reitz Union AuditoriumCome to RUB Presents: Drive. Ryan Gosling plays a Hollywood stunt performer 
who moonlights as a wheelman 
and discovers that a contract has been put on him after a heist gone wrong. The event is free and open to the public.
UF Libertarians Meeting
Today, 7 p.m. to 8 p.m.Matherly Hall, Room 118Anyone interested is welcome and encouraged to come and learn about individual liberty and the classical liberal tradi-tion. The event calendar for 
the upcoming year, including 
speakers, reading groups, cam-pus events, and the Students for Liberty International Conference will also be dis-cussed. For more information, visit the UF Libertarian table on Plaza of the Americas all this week. 
La Casita Open House
Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.Everyone is invited and wel-come to participate in this home away from home environment. There will be free pizza and Wii 
games (bring a controller). 
Grand Opening at Sew Make Do
Saturday, 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Come check out Gainesville’s new modern sewing and craft studio. There will be food, 
drinks and a drawing for a free 
sewing class. For more informa-tion visit http://sewmakedo.
com.
Beginner Tango Class
Sunday, 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Student Recreational & Fitness Center SR2
Join us for a beginners tango 
class. No partners, previous experience or special shoes are 
necessary . 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.which includes a criminal inves-tigation into Champion’s death. Champion died hours after the Florida Classic football game in Orlando and his death has been ruled a homicide.
The Board of Governors, which 
oversees the state’s 11 public 
universities,launched an investi-
gation in November into whether FAMU officials had ignored past warnings about hazing.
Board members did not dis-
cuss that investigation or criticize the actions taken so far by FAMU President James Ammons or other officials since Champion’s death. 
Gov. Rick Scott wanted the FAMU 
Board to suspend Ammons until all investigations were completed, but his request was ignored.
Stan Marshall, a board mem-
ber, instead praised how Ammons and the students have dealt with the tragedy.
“Their response has been admi-
rable,” Marshall said.
Dean Colson, chairman of the 
Board of Governors, urged FAMU officials to respond promptly to requests for information. Some media organizations have been unable to get record requests ful-filled.
“One thing your university 
cannot afford to do is not have a timely , accurate response to all of this,” Colson said.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
nati OnaL
Police: Pa. robbery suspect used 
infection threat 
SHARON, Pa.  — Police say a 
man tried to rob a western Penn-
sylvania gambling parlor by threatening to spread a staph in-fection.
Online court records don’t list 
an attorney for 41-year-old Fred Parker, of Coolspring Township.
Police say he walked into 
Lucky’s Internet Cafe in Sharon on Monday night and began touching the walls and gambling machines, claiming he has MRSA — a seri-ous staph infection that resists an-
tibiotics.
Sharon police Chief Mike Men-
ster says Parker then threatened to 
infect the cashier if he didn’t give Parker money. The chief tells The Herald newspaper of Sharon, “It’s 
our first case of robbery by threat 
of an infectious disease.”
Police say Parker left when the 
cashier refused, but was arrested a short time later based on his de-scription.
Parker remained in jail Wednes-
day.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSLOCaL
Organized shoplifters arrested 
after stealing from The Oaks Mall
Two Jacksonville women and 
a teenager were arrested after 
stealing $395 in clothes from The Oaks Mall on Tuesday.
Sheree Jackson, 27, was 
stopped in a rental vehicle with Cheryl Neal, 41, and Neal’s 17-year-old daughter about 5:30 p.m. after Victoria’s Secret em-ployees called police to inves-tigate the women for theft, ac-cording to a Gainesville Police report.
Police found $271.50 in 
clothes from Victoria’s Secret and $123.50 in clothes from American Eagle in the trunk of the rental car, the report said. 
The teenager told police that 
she and the women steal clothes from stores and then return them in different cities for gift cards or cash value. Police also found clothes inside the car that the suspects said were stolen from stores in Tampa, Orlando, Bran-don and Jacksonville. 
At The Oaks Mall, the women 
returned clothes to Buckle, Hol-lister and Victoria’s Secret that had all been stolen from stores in Tampa last Thursday, the teen-
ager told police.
The women received $216.09 
in store credit from Buckle, 
$219.95 in credit from Hollister and $167.48 in credit from Victo-ria’s Secret from their returns of stolen merchandise, police said.
Jackson is being charged with 
grand theft and for removing 
anti-shoplifting censors, both 
felonies.
Neal is being charged with 
two counts of dealing in sto-len property with an organized group, also a felony.
— EMILY MORROW
state
FAMU officials discuss fallout of 
student death 
TALLAHASSEE — Florida 
A&M University students reg-
istering for classes this fall will have to sign an online form say-ing they’re aware of anti-hazing 
policies as part of the steps the 
school has taken since the beat-ing death of a band member.
In its first public meeting 
since the death, the panel that oversees the state’s university system heard Wednesday from top university officials who out-lined various steps that have 
been taken since Robert Cham-
pion was beaten as part of a band hazing.
“From a student perspec-
tive, change must come from students,” said Breyon Love, the student body president for FAMU.
FAMU officials said they 
could not go into too many de-tails about several investigations,  THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 3Total:
$ 279
Candidate Campaign Contributions
CandidatesDollar Amount
$1,000$16,000
$15,000
$14,000
$13,000
$12,000
$11,000
$10,000
$9,000
$8,000
$7,000
$6,000
$5,000
$4,000
$3,000
$2,000$17,000
Armando
GrundyYvonne
 Hinson-RawlsRichard
SelwachRay
WashingtonNathan
SkopMark
VenzkeLauren
PoeJames
IngleDonna
LutzDejeon
CainDarlene 
PifaloTotal:
$ 8,518
Total:
$ 7,950
Total:
$ 6,564.93
Total:
$ 7,539
Total:
$ 15,038.52
Total:
$ 562.80
Total:
$ 17,325
Total:
$ 6,780.31
Total:
$ 1,200
Total:
$ 9,067.16
$1000
$0$1000
$185$50 $209.80 $20$5,017.31
$265.96Key:
=Self Contribution
=Individual  Contribution
Shawn Janetzke, Adrianna Paidas and Meredith Rutland / Alligator Staff� HE IS ONE OF EIGHT 
PEOPLE RUNNING FOR THE AT-LARGE 1 SEAT.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
As Mark V enzke drove students 
around in his yellow cab during all 
hours of the night, he tried to think of ways to liven up the ride. 
He decided to create the Choco-
late Cab. He would ask trivia ques-tions to his passengers and reward them with chocolate, win or lose. 
To his customers’ dismay , the 
Chocolate Cab stopped running in July when Venzke was let go.
Now, the 54-year-old hopes to 
continue spreading knowledge and fresh ideas within the city.
V enzke is one of eight people 
running for the at-large 1 seat on the Gainesville City Commission. Elec-tions are Jan. 31. 
After reading the platforms of his 
fellow candidates in October, Ven-zke said, he decided to run because he knew he could “do better.”
The city’s biggest concern should 
be its energy policy, Venzke said. He said he wants to rework the current policy to become more efficient and less expensive, especially for those living on the city’s east side.
By establishing privately owned, 
electricity-generating facilities throughout the city, he said, en-ergy conservation would increase 
and residents’ utility bills would 
decrease. He said he also wants to better insulate older homes and sees Gainesville Regional Utilities as an agent to help with the installations.
As a staunch environmentalist, 
V enzke said he wants to focus on stricter cleanup plans for the Cabot-Koppers Superfund site, a former wood processing plant.
Gainesville must band together 
with other communities that have Superfund sites, he said, and then pressure the federal government for safer, more thorough cleanup plans.
“It will not cure the disease,” he 
said. “It will only cause more dis-ease.”V enzke said he is no stranger to 
promoting environmental issues on a national level. He served on an environmental subcommittee of the Reform Party when Ross Perot was running for president in 1996. 
For more than 12 years, he has 
been sending out daily emails on en-vironmental, political, economic and cultural issues to almost 500 friends 
and acquaintances across the U.S. 
“Unfortunately , I’ve engaged in 
so much of that activity that I’ve de-
voted less time than I should to my own livelihoods,” Venzke said.
Venzke studied landscape ar -
chitecture at Purdue University. He 
left in 1982 and worked as a design 
draftsman and technical illustrator for seven years in his hometown of Chicago.
He moved to Florida in 1998 to 
take care of his father after his mother died. He has since worked as a serv-er at a beer garden in a Renaissance fair, a horticulturalist, a basketball 
official and as an electrical-service 
salesman. He was once a conductor on an antique tourist railway . 
A resident of Gainesville for 10 
years, Venzke has lived in his neigh-borhood surrounding the St. Francis House in southeast Gainesville for about five years. 
If elected to the City Commission, 
Venzke would like to start business training programs for kids as young as 12 years old and build more busi-ness incubators across the city .  
“In 20 years from now, I want the 
act of people starting and growing their own business to be as natural as breathing,” he said.
Hawkins declined to comment.
As one of two female commissioners, 
Mastrodicasa said she supports Hinson-Rawls because she wants to continue to encourage women to become involved 
on the commission. 
Mastrodicasa said she also liked Hin-
son-Rawls’ plans to include District 1 in 
the city’s innovation initiatives.
A fan of her personality, Bottcher said 
Hinson-Rawls has the “no-nonsense at-titude” that is needed in city government. 
“She is a woman 
of conviction, and she is intelligent,” Bot-
tcher said. “Even if I was not a city com-missioner, I would 
back her.”
Grundy, an Army veteran, has been 
involved with the Alachua County Char -
ter Review Commission and the Alachua County Veterans Advisory Board.
Hinson-Rawls, a retired educator, 
has been in education administration and has started her own child tutoring business, Childstart Learning Solutions.4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Mark Venzke, 54, is one of eight people running for the at-large 1 seat on the Gainesville City Commis-
sion.
Candidate focuses on environmental policies, local business
Around g AineS viLLe
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Toccara Carter had just settled in to 
watch TV on Tuesday night when she heard 
a frantic knock on the door. She didn’t know who the person was and still doesn’t.
“A little white woman,” she said.Whatever the woman’s name, she had 
urgent news.
“Hey, there’s smoke coming out of that 
house,” she yelled, urging Carter to look right from the entrance of her own apart-ment.
She saw it: the front door open, fumes 
drifting, fire popping. Carter snatched the extinguisher that hangs on the living room wall before heading to her neighbor 5 feet away, “hollerin’ for Pops.”
The 63-year-old man has lived in the 
apartment on the corner of Southeast Eighth Street and Southeast First Avenue for about seven months. He started the fire.
When Carter met him, Pops was living 
in a tent city. She helped him move in.
Lately, though, he’d been telling her he 
wants to end his life; that he just doesn’t care anymore. He has cancer, Carter and one of the man’s relatives said, though neither one knew the specifics. But what’s worse has been the alcohol. Too much drinking.
“I was so scared,” Carter said. “I didn’t 
even know what to do. I thought he was in there burned up. Burned. Up. My mind just 
went blank.”
When she peeked inside the apartment, 
Carter saw that Pops “had lost himself.” He was running around with a broom above 
his head, the top of the bristles lighted. A maroon couch was on fire. So was the brown rug.
Carter called 911 at 7:35 p.m. and started 
spraying the extinguisher.
§ § §
The first Gainesville Fire Rescue engine 
was dispatched at 7:43 p.m. By the time it ar -
rived two minutes later, Carter had already doused the flames, Lt. Keith Saunders said. Pops stood in front of the apartment, field-ing questions from the Gainesville Police Department.
The man, whose real name has been 
withheld due to the sensitivity of the cir -
cumstances, was not burned.
He was charged with arson and posses -
sion of cannabis. Officers drove him to the Crisis Stabilization Unit at Genoa Health-care on Southwest 13th Street on Tuesday, Sgt. Joe Raulerson said. Pops was still there 
as of Wednesday afternoon.
§ § §
The man’s niece, Gloria Lynn, lives in the same apartment complex. Her green 
door stares at his green door. About 30 feet of dirt and patchy grass separate the two. But she didn’t know about the fire until about noon Wednesday.
She did notice a commotion. She was 
feeding her month-old baby, Anthony, when she looked out her window and saw people gathering by the man’s door.
“But when things are going on, I don’t 
tend to be nosy,” she said.
Pop’s electricity was cut off Friday, and 
Lynn said he stayed at her place when the temperatures dipped this weekend. But she couldn’t handle him and the baby for too 
long. Plus, he said his electricity was com -
ing back on soon.
Lynn wasn’t comfortable having him 
stay too long anyway. She said he acts bi-
polar.
“I don’t know about all that,” said Cart-
er, who added that Pops isn’t close with his family members. “He’s her uncle, and 
she didn’t even come outside [Tuesday 
night].”
Carter said booze is the real culprit. 
Even after putting out the fire, she had to save Pops once more Tuesday night. With officers on the way, she wrestled a can out of his hands.
As she walked out of Pops’ apartment 
Wednesday evening, having examined the fire’s damage a day later, Carter pointed to a can of Steel Reserve lying in front of Pops’ door: “Yeah, that’s it.”
It was crushed down the middle.Neighbors recount night man ‘lost himself’
donATion , from page 1Commissioners 
tout candidate’s spirit, experience
Mastrodicasa
“I was so scared. I didn’t even 
know what to do. I thought he was 
in there burned up. Burned. Up. My 
mind just went blank.”
Toccara Carter
Pops’ neighbor THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Politics
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Writer
When Michael V ensamoye got to 
his International Relations class an 
hour early on Wednesday , he knew how to pass the time.
The 18-year-old telecommunica-
tion freshman pulled up Reddit, a website he frequently browses when he’s bored. 
But when it loaded, V ensamoye 
found himself looking at a different page than he expected.
Instead of displaying hundreds 
of aggregated links, Reddit showed a black page full of information about the U.S. House of Represen-tatives’ Stop Online Piracy Act and 
the U.S. Senate’s Protect Intellectual 
Property Act.
Reddit was just one of more than 
7,000 websites that blacked out in protest of the two Internet censor -
ship bills on Wednesday.
In Florida, at least, the blackout 
may have worked.
Around noon Wednesday, PIPA 
co-sponsor and Florida Republican Sen. Marco Rubio wrote on Face-book and Twitter that he is drop-ping his support for the bill.
Earlier in the day , Republican 
Rep. Dennis Ross, also from Florida, 
tweeted that he believed SOPA was 
dead.
“Not having the support of the 
tech community on #SOPA is like 
not having Police support for a 
Crime Bill,” Ross tweeted. “Feels like we’re being #RickRolled.” If each bill is passed in its current 
forms, the law would allow enter -
tainment companies to shut down a 
website that hosts or links to pirated 
content. For example, one illegal video could merit taking down all of YouTube.
Sites from WordPress.com to 
Wikipedia went on strike to spark viewers’ awareness of the bills.
Like Reddit, many blacked-out 
sites posted potential consequences 
of the bills and urged users to con-
tact their congressmen. Tumblr of-fered users the option of blacking out their own blogs for the day.
According to The New York 
Times, 4.5 million people digitally 
signed Google’s petition against 
SOPA and PIPA.
Back at UF, the blackout inspired 
V ensamoye to take action. He said he didn’t really understand SOPA until he read Reddit’s blackout page.
“I signed a petition, and then af-
ter that I started to read more about it and why it’s a bad idea,” Ven-
samoye said. “I just wanted to see 
why everyone was making a big deal about it.” Florida congressmen drop support for online piracy act
“Feels like we’re being 
#RickRolled.”
Dennis Ross 
Republican RepresentativeReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR49 TOTAL VOTES49% YES
51% NOToday’s question:  Do you plan on voting in the city 
elections in a few weeks?
Wednesday’s question: Is going to 
the gym more one of your New Year’s       resolutions?Easier SG Election?
Some changes to rules 
good, some unclear
Anyone closely following the UF Student Govern-
ment elections last year knows things did not go as planned. In fact, it would not be inappropriate to say 
that the elections were botched. 
Furthermore, when members of the Student Senate tried 
to create some sense of accountability by bringing articles of impeachment against the supervisor of elections, the Senate screwed this up as well. 
Although the Senate agreed that many of its election 
codes were violated by the supervisor during the election process, they did not find that this dereliction of duty mer -
ited a removal from office — just a wag of the finger. 
Well, it’s a new year and the Senate has revised its elec-
tion code in order to prevent the horrendous disaster that 
was last semester’s election. 
But do these revisions do enough to curtail mistakes or 
the chances of corruption? 
Well, sort of. 
Last semester, Supervisor of Elections Toni Megna did 
not return the Alligator’s requests for a comment on wheth-er or not she followed the SG election code 715.0 by testing the system two days prior to the election. In the revisions, the Senate simply decided to change the rule to one week 
rather than two days. Megna argued they would have to pay 
people extra money to get them to come in on a weekend to test the system. 
While we commend their commitment to fiscal restraint 
in this situation, why could they not test the system on the Monday before or, if that’s problematic, the Friday before? A lot can happen in a week. 
Next, they added a new rule that states, “In the event 
that a polling location becomes unavailable due to an event 
or circumstance outside the control of the election staff, the 
Supervisor of Elections, at his or her discretion, may add or change a polling location to the nearest available building” as long as there are notifications at the original polling loca-tion. 
While there may be reasons to add a rule like this to the 
election code (for instance, a power outage in a building), the vagueness of the language lends this rule to be possibly abused by future supervisors. 
Imagine you are headed to your assigned poll location 
and when you arrive, you are told that the polling location has changed to a building accross the street. Perhaps you don’t have time or do not feel like walking to that building because your original polling location was on your way to class. A ruling like this, if abused, could have a huge effect on voter turnout. 
Given the propensity of past supervisors to not adhere to 
the rules, it might have been a good idea to add some checks 
to the ability of supervisors to change polling locations. 
To be fair, many of the rule changes make sense. How-
ever, the rules mentioned above should be looked at with 
greater scrutiny by Student Government. Anonymous grading eliminates bias
Imagine that papers are being handed back. The 
professor slowly calls out names and the student approaches, reaches for his or her paper, and flips 
through the pages to find the grade. It’s a C. The stu-dent mutters the familiar groan, “This professor hates me.” Wouldn’t it be nice if we could be assured that our grade wasn’t the product of professor bias? I propose a 
solution: Use anonymous numbers instead of names.
It is often the first thing we do before we begin typ-
ing a paper — write our name in the upper left corner. 
Almost subliminally, we know that whatever we write will be judged in the context of our name, our personal-
ity and the professor’s presumptions of us. We believe 
that Susie — that student who always raises her hand and who the professor loves — has an automatic ad-vantage merely because her name is at the top of her 
paper. 
At some point or another, everyone has had to write 
a paper. And at some point or another most of us have 
felt that the professor did not like us, and that is why we received a low grade. 
So, instead of having to write our names, I propose 
that we be assigned a random number each time we write a paper. We would put this number at the top of the paper, turn it in, and the professor would grade it, 
having absolutely no idea who wrote it. Students would 
be responsible for remembering their number, identify-ing their paper after it has been graded and allowing the professor to record the grade for the appropriate student. 
Would this not eliminate any bias that may exist 
against students? Students would finally have the peace of mind that their work was being graded objectively. The ubiquitous complaint that subjective grading is 
unfair would finally cease. Professors would be forced 
to grade a paper based on the content of the student’s work and not on the content of the student’s character.This is not to suggest that 
UF professors are especially prone to biased grading. In 
fact, in my experience, it is just 
the opposite. I have found my professors to be extremely fair and unaffected by their connec-
tions with students. However, 
who would deny that a profes-
sor would look more kindly upon a student who always attends class and less kindly upon one who does not? Who would deny that, whether subconsciously or not, 
that name in the top left corner elicits an emotion, an 
impression? 
It is worth implementing this policy to both give the 
students peace of mind and perhaps eliminate the pos-
sibility that unfair bias may, indeed, exist in grading. 
The policy should have exceptions. Obviously, in 
several classes students discuss the topic of their papers 
with professors beforehand, thus undermining the pur -
pose of anonymity. However, in several classes the pa-
per topics are often the same for every student. 
So what is preventing this policy from being imple-
mented? The only answer I can think of is that it is a 
minor inconvenience to the professor — an extra step in 
getting a grade on a spreadsheet. 
Well, it’s high time that we took a stand for what is 
right, not what is easy. It should be both the priority 
of the university, and the insistence of the students to ensure that work is graded fairly. 
It should be our priority that the hours of reading, 
research, citations and typing that go into papers are not dismissed with the swipe of a pen at the mercy of an impression. Insist on anonymous grading. Insist on 
fairness. Insist on a number. 
Garrett Bruno is a political science sophomore at UF. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Garrett Bruno
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 7
MLK Day is more than a day off
While others are living a dream, there are 
millions of people living a labor and sexually 
exploited nightmare in the United States of America. Reﬂ  ecting on the work of the Rev . Martin Luther King Jr. reminded me that he 
advocated not only for civil rights for racial 
minorities, but he also advocated for human rights for all members of the human race.
Although legislation such as the Emancipa-
tion Proclamation of 1863 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964  abolished discrimination and slav-ery as we know it, human rights are still be-ing violated every day. All around the world, men, women and children are trafﬁ  cked into 
sex labor and other industries. But where is 
the ofﬁ  cial modern-day Emancipation Procla-mation for these people? 
The Convention on the Elimination of All 
Forms of Discrimination against Women Trea-ty was signed by the U.S. in 1981, but it still has not been ratiﬁ  ed. A human rights move-ment still has not become mainstream. King was able to accomplish a phenomenal amount of work in such a short time, but what about us? Who is the human rights champion of our generation? I hope that students did more than just some community service this MLK Day. I hope students truly reﬂ  ected on what King started, and think of ways to ﬁ  nish it: at-
taining human rights for all.
Roberta Roberts 
Public Relations senior at UF
  
Unite Party made no improvements on 
SG election codes
Last Tuesday , the Unite Party engaged in 
some of the most disgusting, blatantly corrupt 
behavior I have seen in my time in Senate.
To start, the student whom Senate Presi-
dent Andy Mason appointed to the Elections 
Commission  didn’t even know what the Elec-
tions Commission was, let alone the duties and responsibilities of the commissioners. In fact, this student had no experience whatso-ever in the elections process. 
It’s no surprise, however, as experience has 
never been a requirement in Unite’s corrupt patronage system. Unite senators tried to de-fend the applicant by focusing on the “person-al qualities” she exuded during her interview 
with Mason. Unfortunately for them, Mason 
admitted that he never actually interviewed her.
Showing further disregard for students 
and the election process, the Unite-controlled Senate shot down six amendments to the elec-tion codes. All of the amendments were aimed to better inform students about the election process and to reduce corruption in the voting 
system. 
The Unite solution for the election ﬁ  asco 
of last semester? If it’s broke, don’t ﬁ  x it; toss 
it out! Since the supervisor of elections failed to fulﬁ  ll her duties last semester, they simply deleted the codes that imposed those duties upon her. Now, thousands of students will face even more challenges in educating them-
selves about the elections this Spring.
Proving once again that Unite leaders are in 
the  Senate for their resumes, not the students, 
Senate President Mason and other Unite sena-tors prevented the Senate from voting on an amendment that would have added signs to all of the entrances to a polling location. The Unite Party believes it is more important to leave meetings quickly than spend ﬁ  ve min-
utes making sure students know where to 
vote.
The Unite Party’s stance on students could 
not have been made more clear than it was last night. The members don’t want students to know about elections, they don’t want to change the corrupt ways by which they ma-nipulate student government and they espe-cially don’t want students voting. The Unite 
Party will never care about democracy or the 
students, only themselves.
Carly Wilson
Students Party Senator
Only a couple weeks in, the Republican presidential pri-
maries have already given us all we’ve come to expect from the GOP: baseless attacks and conservative talk-
ing points. After the New Hampshire primary, the leading Re-publican candidate, Mitt Romney, called Obama’s incumbency 
a “failed presidency” and claimed Obama is trying to “put free 
enterprise on trial.” 
Romney’s plans, on the other hand, have two goals: to 
aid the extremely wealthy and weaken the lower and middle classes. He plans to repeal Obamacare, cut social programs and reduce the corporate tax rate to 25 percent.
The speciﬁ  cs of Romney’s policies are similar to those of the 
other prominent Republican candidates. But avaricious, ineq-uitable politics are not enough; Republican policies must also 
masquerade as fairer and more American.
Romney says he believes “in an America that’s based upon 
opportunity and freedom.” There’s a small problem with that. 
Putting more power in corporate hands and cutting social pro-grams — programs designed to give the slightest semblance of equity to working-class Americans in our grossly inequitable economic class system — does not strengthen opportunity and freedom. 
Romney and other conservatives ignore a fundamental 
problem with unchecked capitalism: The wealthy accumulate inordinate amounts of wealth by capitalizing on the despera-tion of the working class. Our des-perate working class, willing to work for the spare change of executives, can have no opportunity in America under the austere economic policies 
of the Republican candidates.
But wait, conservatives proclaim, 
“Anything else is redistribution! 
And socialism!” Indeed, just before the primaries, Romney went for the Republican-patented method of ap-
pealing to xenophobia. He claimed Obama “wants to make us a European-style welfare state.” 
 It would be slightly less despicable if Romney’s comparison 
was logical. It wasn’t.
In a study of the United States and its European counter-
parts, the Pew Charitable Trusts’ Economic Mobility Project found that “there is a stronger link between parental education and children’s economic, educational, and socio-emotional outcomes” in the United States than in any other country they investigated. 
So where is the opportunity and freedom? Apparently , they are in those “European-style welfare 
states.” Pay attention, Romney and other conservatives. It seems Obama’s plans are more in tune with your vision for America than your own plans. 
In the natural manner of a politician in need, Romney — in 
a grossly misconstrued manner — appealed to our Founding Fathers for help, claiming that Obama’s protection of working-class Americans will “kill … the rights which have been in our Declaration of Independence and Constitution.” 
An America with a profoundly vast class divide — a divide 
that puts, according to a review at Harvard Business School, 50 
percent of all wealth into the hands of 1 percent of Americans 
— is not what our Founding Fathers envisioned. It is not even conservative, but a grossly perverse state of society. Austere economic policies, including limiting spending and cutting social programs, are antithetical to opportunity and freedom. When an American is making pennies off her 40-hour work week, when she can’t afford health care because of money-grubbing insurance companies and is struggling to pay basic bills, she no longer has the “certain, unalienable rights” that the 
Founding Fathers tried to protect.
Conservative politicians need to learn this: Opportunity is 
for more than just the wealthy . And until they stop working for 
the wealthy , their policies threaten to widen the class divide in America and replace our republic with a plutocracy . That is, if it hasn’t been replaced already.
Abdul Zalikha is a biology and English junior at UF . His column 
regularly appears on Wednesdays.
Republicans may widen class divide by only working for wealthy  Column
Abdul Zalikha
opinions@alligator.orgtheAvenue    THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_AVENUE
Did you know that some 
of UF’s students have gone viral? Check out our most popular videos on page 9.Award show predictions
Everyone tries to predict the outcome of award shows - compare your guesses on page 12.“Billy on the Street” makes game shows fun again
Billy eichner brings his ridiculous personality to the TV screen with his riot of a trivia game. Get the details on page 10. KIERA WRIGHT-RUIZ
Avenue Writer
Adam, how long do you cook 
your ribs? 
“‘Til they’re done,” he said with 
a grin.Adam Brewer, 31, is the owner 
and founder of Adam’s Rib Co., 
2111 NW 13th St. It opened in fall 2005 and quickly became one of Gainesville’s favorite restaurants. It serves southern comfort foods such as homemade barbecue, collard greens, peach cobbler and biscuits and gravy . 
Brewer was born and raised in 
Gainesville. He started cooking about 15 years ago. By the time he was 18, he was a cook at multiple restaurants. He first started cooking barbecue 
in 2004. The first item Brewer per -
fected was the ribs.
“I got ribs on the sign out there; it 
better be good,” he joked. 
The first thing you smell when 
you walk through the doors is smoked, barbecued pork. 
Every week, Adam’s Rib Co. has 
meat delivered from Florida Food Service. Next, cooks put a secret dry-
rub  recipe on it. Then they smoke it 
with a combination of several kinds of woods, including pecan, black jack and red oak, to infuse the meat with flavor.
Brewer’s ribs are different be-
cause he slow-cooks his barbecue longer. The trick for moist, tender ribs is not letting all the smoke out. 
“The moisture’s in the smoke,” 
he said. “It’s a process, but it’s defi-nitely worth doing.”
Brewer believes he offers the 
complete package with his menu because no item is the best. They all complement each other, he said.   
“I’ve kind of developed this as 
the hometown barbecue headquar -
ters,” he said. “This is the place where people want to go and eat barbecue.”
His favorite meal is one he creat-
ed to meet the needs of his appetite in his mid-20s: Adam’s Delight. It comes with six ribs, two sides, garlic bread and banana pudding for des-sert. 
Brewer thought for many years 
people had not been cooking ribs the right way.
“I remember growing up and 
eating ribs that didn’t come off the bone,” he said. “We came up with this barbecue rib recipe, and we were like, ‘Man, this is puttin’ the ribs back in barbecue.’”
Adam chose the location of the 
restaurant because it was a landmark to people. It used to be a doughnut 
shop for about 35 years. 
“Everybody and their brother 
knew about it,” he explained. 
Adam’s Rib Co. tries to buy only 
from local businesses to keep the 
economy within the community.
“I’m from here,” he said. “I’m 
raising my children here. It’s just easy for me [to be] plugged into this 
town.”
Along the restaurant’s walls are 
plaques that say , “Thank you for 
your donation.” 
“Anytime I can try to help, I al-
ways do,” he said, talking to a cus-tomer who was thanking Adam for making another contribution.
Because Adam’s Rib Co. has had 
a bigger presence in Gainesville over the past six years, other companies have followed and begun helping within the community.
The restaurant also tries not to 
waste any food, but if there is a large amount of leftovers, it is normally donated to a nonprofit organization. 
The restaurant’s customers are 
diverse. Students and locals alike have become regulars. Some cus-tomers have driven hours just to eat at Adam’s Rib Co., Brewer recalled. 
“I always wanted to be a desti-
nation,” he said proudly . “This is a destination. Once you become a des-tination, it’s a whole different ball game.” 
Brewer recently bought a new 
property for a second location off Southwest 13th Street for expansion. The new, bigger restaurant will open 
Dana Burke/ Alligator Staff
Gainesville native, Adam Brewer, shows off his pride and joy: perfect BBQ ribs.
Adam’s Rib Co. is puttin’ the perfect ribs back in barbecue
See RIBS, p Age 9BBQ joint serves food to families and friends
ANTHONY CARDONA
Avenue Writer
Being an avid fan of the Assassin’s Creed 
series, I was dead set on getting Revelations. 
I couldn’t wait to see where Desmond Miles would find himself in his ancestor Ezio Audi-tore’s shoes (or, boots, rather), and I was des-
perate to figure out what the hell happened 
with Brotherhood’s ending. So popping the game into my Xbox 360 was kind of a big deal.
The game’s storyline is the best part of the 
series, second only to the free-running skills. If you remember Brotherhood’s ending, there was mention of, “Put him back in the Animus!” 
Revelations starts off around there. Desmond has fallen into a coma after his encounter with 
the Apple, and he’s stuck on Animus Island. Occasionally Subject 16 (not just a number anymore!) comes by to talk to Desmond and 
offers a little insight: The Animus is having 
trouble differentiating between Desmond and Ezio, and every trip into Ezio’s memories tips that balance out of whack even more.
Speaking of Ezio, his storyline in this game 
is interesting. Naturally , Ezio has to get these keys before the Templars, so he travels to Con-stantinople and meets with the assassins there to find the keys. Ezio meets new allies and 
enemies along the way and even finds a love 
interest. There’s a few twists and turns, but it’s super enjoyable.
The game play is basically the same as it was in Brotherhood: Run around the sprawl-ing city, climb up walls and towers and find collectibles (animus data fragments used to unlock Desmond’s “memories”). It’s the same 
old formula, really . The hook blade makes it easy to get around the city rooftops (using the many zip lines) and climbing up to out-of-reach ledges is a breeze now (plus, the long jump you 
can do on a lamp instead of turning 90 degrees was a 
great mechanic). The game 
uses the hook blade automatically, so there’s 
no need to press a button to activate it or any-thing (unless you hold B to catch a ledge as you fall).
The hook blade is also a major component 
of combat. You can hook enemies and tumble over them, great for getting past a barricade. 
And of course, you can use it for some excel-
lent killing blows (my favorite is when you hook them, pull them close, stab with hidden blade and then yank the hook blade away; you don’t see it, but I’m pretty sure a chunk of his sternum is gone). 
As much as I loved Revelations, I hate to 
say it wasn’t completely perfect. The targeting system (LT on the Xbox 360) was done away 
with, opting to auto-target, which I disliked a 
bit; I cannot tell you how many times I aimed at a Templar official to take him out only to 
Assassin’s Creed: Revelations -  A review by GameGradegaming
See g AMe, p Age 9ezio Auditore
have the targeting switch to a citizen a 
second before I shot my gun. 
The story did seem a bit short to me; 
I would’ve enjoyed a deeper-delving narrative. Also, the ending (after Ezio’s 
farewell) confused me and threw me for 
a loop.
I enjoyed playing Revelations, no doubt about it. 
Yes, it had some flaws that irked me a 
little, but overall it was an awesome game and worth buying. If you’re a big fan of the series, then go buy the game and play it right now. 
If you’re a casual gamer and looking 
for something to play, then get Revela-tions. It’ll make a fan out of you.
Find more reviews at gamegrade.tum-
blr.com/in late April or early May, he said. Although 
he’s expanding and thinking of opening a 
third property, he doesn’t want to get bigger than that. 
His restaurants will always stay in 
Gainesville, and they will never become a franchise, he assured. 
Brewer would like to pass the business 
down through his family. He has two sons, a 6-year-old and a 4-year-old. His older son loves to help out by bringing food to custom-ers and buttering bread for toast. It’s a family here, Brewer said. 
Owning the restaurant 
has given him an opportu-nity to develop strong rela-tionships with his custom-ers. Some students will stop 
by before they move, hug 
the staff and tell them how they’re going to miss them, 
he said. 
 “The relationships we develop here 
— it’s more than just food.” THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
NICOLE LA HOZ
Avenue Writer
The Gator Nation is everywhere, especial-
ly on YouTube. Thousands have seen the vid-
eos due to word-of-mouth. Here’s a list of the top five viral videos created by UF students, proving that Gators can sometimes grab more 
attention than a cute, barking puppy.
5. Moving like Tebow -- 53,886 views
UF freshmen Max Sommer and Ryan 
Lynch taught people everywhere that it’s 
acceptable to Tebow In the music video for “Moving like Tebow,” Sommer, Lynch and 11 other friends parody the song “Moving Like Bernie” by capitalizing on the Tim Tebow 
frenzy. The term Tebowing was popularized 
by Tebowing.com, a site where people sub-mit photos of themselves getting down on one knee and praying; the more random the location, the better. “Moving Like Tebow” 
was featured on Gator Country and the on-line “Tosh.0” community. Sommer, a dedi-cated Tebow fan, dons various No. 15 shirts 
and kneels beside all of UF’s landmarks. The Bleacher Report and NBC Sports later picked up the video. 
4. Super Grace -- 207,214 views
While wearing a short, blue wig, UF se-
nior Raychel Manko approached the pulpit to commend “the boys with the true reli-
gion.” Manko wrote “Super Grace,” a remake 
of Nicki Minaj’s “Super Bass,” for Skit Night at the Christian Greek Organizations’ home-coming event. “Christian boys got my heart-beat running away,” Manko sings. “But I need to guard my heart, so I’ll pray.” With a catchy cover and full-out choreography, it won first place. The video also garnered the attention of Barbie herself, Nicki Minaj. The “Super 
Grace” video is embedded on her website.
3. My push-up bra will help me get my 
man -- 16,707,293 views“Tracy Tina” (GloZell) offers us a point-
of-view video about her journey to get her 
man, Peter, back. Equipped with a push-up bra and “new Kool-Aid hair,” she records her drive to the park to meet Peter. “I need to get him back from some little trick, Rachel,” she says, smacking her lips. GloZell Green, who’s now the seventh most-viewed comedian on YouTube, graduated from UF with a degree in musical theater. Last year, she hosted the 
VISA talent show. 
2. Incredible Speed-Boat Catch -- 4,928,132 
views  
While standing on a bridge, Brodie Smith 
looks at a camera and says, “This right here 
is the world’s fastest receiver.” He launches a Frisbee into the ocean toward a man who can arguably hold that title. Right as the disc curves down, a speed boat rides out, and the 
receiver catches it before falling into the wa-
ter. Smith, the former Ultimate Frisbee cap-tain at UF, led the team to national champion-ships in 2006 and 2010. His impressive throw and the receiver’s unbelievable catch were on 
the “Tosh.0” blog and TeamCoco.com, Co-
nan O’Brien’s website.
1. University of Florida student Tasered at 
Kerry forum -- 6,195,377 views  
The No. 1 video is one that sparked a thou-
sand T-shirts, ringtones and remixes. In 2007, UF student Andrew Meyer stepped up to the microphone at a town hall forum with Sen. 
John Kerry in the University Auditorium. 
Meyer said he came prepared with tough questions. Shortly after asking his third ques-tion about Kerry being in the Skull and Bones Society, two UFPD officers grabbed him and began taking him outside. Six officers tried to handcuff him, and when one threatened to use a Taser on Meyer, he yelled, “Don’t Tase me, bro!” The officer drive-stunned him (ap-
plying electric shock without the projectiles). 
Meyer was later cleared of criminal charges. “The Yale Book of Quotations” named it the most memorable quote of 2007.
UF students have super popular viral videos on the Web
Don’t forget the napkins!
RIBS , from page 8viral videos
HIPPODROME THEATRE 25 SE 2ND PL DOWNTOWN GAINESVILLE
TICKETS AT 352.375.HIPP & THEHIPP.ORG
HIPPODROME THEA TRE
Photo of Laur en Nor dvig b y Michael A. Eaddy .
TONIGHT & FRID AY AT 8PM
SAT AT 5 & 8:30PM
SUN A T 2 & 7PM
STUDENT TICKETS
ONLY $12
 The per fect 
date, girl’s 
nigh t out , or 
evening 
outing with 
friends , 
SIRENS will 
ha
have you 
laughing in 
your sea t 
and talk ing 
all the w ay 
home! B ook 
your tick ets 
n
now for the 
best sea ts!
Don ’t miss the hilarious and “seduc tively funn y” SIRENS a t the Hippodr ome! 
SIRENS
by Deborah Zoe Laufer
directed by Lauren Caldwell
GAME , from page 8Good for gamers of all levels10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ 
Avenue Writer
Armed with a microphone, 
a biting sense of humor and an 
expansive knowledge of pop culture, comedian Billy Eich-ner takes to the streets of New 
York City.
The groundbreaking new 
show “Billy on the Street” 
challenges and combines ev -
erything Americans know about comedy television, the classic game show and even some social norms. 
In the show, Billy asks a 
bashfully middle-aged wom-an if she would “like to have a three-way with Michael Bublé  and Josh Groban?” She was more than shocked by his crudeness.
The structure of the show is 
as follows: Eichner walks up to pedestrians, prompting them 
to play a new pop-culture triv-
ia game where they could win real money. Contestants then compete in three rounds of questioning. The third round is a subjective question, the answer of which has to match Eichner’s personal answer.  If contestants have difficul-
ty answering questions, they have a few options. They can call a woman, ask an Asian, 
beg a stranger or Tweet Eich-
ner’s Twitter followers for help.
Crude, funny, loud, witty, 
smart and outrageous, Eich-ner has all the ingredients for a smash hit. Carrying him to his success is the Funny or Die network, known for its po-
litically charged and honestly 
funny viral videos. 
More recently “Billy on 
the Street” featured a new segment called “Get into the Snuggie with Billy.” This spe-cial consisted of Eichner ask-ing former Saturday Night Live cast member Rachel 
Dratch to “Name 20 White 
People in 30 Seconds,” while they were both suited in bur -
gundy Snuggies.
According to Eichner’s 
Twitter account (@BillyEich-ner), Joan Rivers will also ap-pear on “Billy on the Street” soon. 
The sixth episode of “Billy 
on the Street” airs tonight on Fuse TV at 11 p.m.Fuse’s “Billy on the 
Street” is the friend 
you wish you had KAY BEA
Avenue Columnist
One of the biggest differences of opinion that 
has been characterizing Gainesville lately lies in the split personality of Mother Nature.  A 
literal night-and-day contrast, the weather over the past week has not only confused my wardrobe but 
has also influenced my decision-making abilities in 
other areas of life.  Shakespeare was onto something with the words, “To be, or not to be?” for that is the question that shall forever remain unanswered in some way, shape or form.  Add or drop?  Pass or fail?  Spend or save?  Stay single or swing?  Continue or quit?  Hibernate or hobnob?
This uncertainty seeped its way into the column 
you are currently reading.  For those who caught 
last week’s edition, there was hesitation on my part 
to continue writing in a fashion similar to before. As an unattached lady who has temporarily lost her li-bido, the idea of writing a dating column seemed a tad futile. And so, a compromise has been reached in which this printed space’s purpose no longer requires a black or white solution.  
Welcome to The Art of Flying Solo, a weekly col-
umn that tackles the ins and outs of single life in 
Gainesville. Topics of boning will not be abandoned 
entirely, yet like the real lives that all of us lead, sex is no longer the sole focus. C’mon kiddies, let’s face it: If even the most promiscuous of us have to take breathers from hooking up, then why should I force a dialogue that lacks genuine substance?  I refuse to fake an orgasm, and I will carry that into my writing.  
That being said, this week I’d like to call attention 
to three little words that seem to consume many peo-
ples’ lives: online social networking.
These days it seems that you’re nobody until some-
body friend requests you.  I’ll be the first to admit that 
even I get a bit of a high when I see something I’ve writ-ten re-Tweeted into the universe — such an act sends a rush to the brain, regardless of the Tweeter’s intent. 
Spouting off using these mechanisms is fast, easy, in-
stantly gratifying and incredibly self-indulgent. It’s no wonder that so many of us are totally addicted to sites such as Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr—they all harbor characteristics that parallel intoxicating sub-stances. The difference: Online social networking is legal, free and (for the most part) unfiltered. Oh, plus everyone and their grandmother is now juiced into at 
least one of these outlets, which means the material 
for jabbering gossip is endless.
All of the above leads me to wonder how life 
would change if I decided to deactivate. No more Fa-cebook. No more Twitter. No more blogging. My You-Tube, Last.fm, Perez Hilton, MySpace and other on-line accounts are all closed, deleted, gone. This year, if people want to access me, they’re going to have to do it the old fashioned way — email, text or even brave 
an actual voice-to-voice phone call.
As one who has always failed miserably at the act 
of playing hard-to-get, I have to say that deactivating 
this portion of my social life has delivered the most in-furiating satisfaction I have experienced in a long time. First of all, within a week of leaving Zuckerberg’s em-pire, my phone nearly maxed out on its text message 
capacity. I’d like to boast that all of this excessive attention was due to 
some magical, new-found popular -
ity, but the reality is people were just 
wondering WTF happened to my profile. This makes me laugh for two reasons: 1. The ability to creep was nipped in the bud which probably meant that... 2. Those creepers had 
to wonder if I had de-friended them (that bitch!).
The verdict? So far, so good. It’s been about a 
month since I went offline. I will have to say that, yes, I am more out-of-the-loop than usual, but it’s really nice. The Internet is now completely boring. As a re-sult, my free time has increased, thereby skyrocketing productivity in other areas of interest.
The truth is, if something really significant in my 
social network happens, I will find out anyway. I will even go as far as to say my lack of online presence has elevated general interest in my real life. 
People can no longer draw some conclusion based 
on a photo or status update, which alleviates a lot of room for drama. On the flip side, disconnecting from 
everyone else’s lives has allowed me to focus on my 
own.The Art of Flying Solo: Deactivation
NICOLE LA HOZ
Avenue Writer
There were palm trees and people on rooftops. A man 
from the fourth floor of a hotel came outside to cheer. Another 
stranger let Jo St-Onge use his PA system. 
Key West’s Mallory Square was the perfect setting for an 
impromptu show.
“We’re just a borderline jam band,” said St-Onge, singer in 
the Canadian rock duo Diamond Dust.
Diamond Dust has been touring Florida since December. To-
night, Jo and guitarist Craig “Riffer” Hare make their last stop at the BackStage Lounge with Mike Mullis and Whoo Whee and True Company. Cover is $5 and the show begins at 9 p.m.
The band is offering a way for audiences to connect on a dif-
ferent, more intimate level. The tour has been entirely acoustic. 
“The audience understands what we’re talking about 
more,” St-Onge said. “They understand the words more. It’s a chill setting, but we try to keep the energy up.”
Diamond Dust is a band that can’t be categorized. Songs 
from its self-titled debut album weave in and out of folk (“Down the Coast”) and pure rock ‘n’ roll (“Push It”).
“Summertime,” the band’s first single, starts with quaint 
talk. “Get Along” is another foot-tapping song. St-Onge’s voice gets progressively stronger, complemented by the crescendo of country guitar.
Tracks “Rock and Roll” and “Bring Me Down” are reminis-
cent of classic rock. Their grooving bass and catchy riffs show off the band’s vigor.
St-Onge and Hare formed Diamond Dust in 2007 in Ontario, 
Canada. The three and another member created a band called IC and toured a small Canadian east coast circuit. 
Then St-Onge found herself writing more songs with Craig. 
“You’d think the power of four was more powerful,” Jo said. 
But at that point, it was Hare and St-Onge. 
While searching for band names, Hare found the term “di-
amond dust.” St-Onge looked it up and read that it’s a phe-
nomenon created in clear skies and freezing temperatures also referred to as “ice crystals,” or “IC.”In 2008, they relocated to Vancouver to start recording the 
album with JUNO Award-winning bassist Barry Muir and Grammy Award-winning drummer Randall Stoll.
At the end of their self-production, Diamond Dust had al-
most 50 demos. They were psychedelic, hard, bluesy and folk. “Songs have their own life, and you put it on paper,” Jo said. “We try to play songs that are true to us and highly enter -
taining.” 
St-Onge said that includes anything from covers to their dy-
namic, acoustic hard rock, as long as there’s singing and danc-ing in the audience. 
“We’re just trying to get people to have fun.” THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
Diamond Dust: A Canadian band brought rock to Florida
Courtesy of Reverbnation
Diamond Dust came all the way from Canada to play an acoustic version of its self-titled rock album.
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
The 54th-annual GRAMMY 
Awards will air Feb. 12 at 8 p.m., 
and there are a few folks who 
will, without a doubt, be bringing 
home those shiny golden gramo-phones. 
A change of pace from the 
Golden Globes, the most recently aired of the major awards shows, the GRAMMYs will be honoring the best in music. 
Predicting who will win is a 
tough feat, especially with the variety in nominees and the great talent displayed by all of them. Nevertheless, it’s worth a shot.   
The competition for Record of 
the Year is tight. A majority of the nominees have already experi-enced success at the GRAMMYs; 
there are a few newcomers who 
could steal the show. 
Adele, a previous winner in 
the Best New Artist category, is 
nominated for her major hit “Roll-
ing in the Deep.” Katy Perry, who has previously been nominated for six GRAMMYs but has yet to win, is nominated for “Fire-work.” Bruno Mars, who won 
Best Male Pop Vocal Performance 
at last year’s GRAMMYs, hopes to bring another gramophone home with “Grenade.” Newcom-
ers Mumford & Sons, who memo-
rably performed with Bob Dylan at last year’s GRAMMY Awards, 
are nominated for their hit track 
“The Cave.” Underdog of the group, Bon Iver, is in the running with his record “Holocene.”
Bon Iver is also nominated for 
Best New Artist, Best Alternative Album and Song of the Year for 
“Holocene.” Bon Iver, which is 
Vermont-native Justin Vernon’s stage name, is not necessarily a “new artist,” though his latest self-titled, critically acclaimed 
album is only his second. His first album, “For Emma, Forever Ago,” released independently in 
2007, exposed the world to Ver -
non’s heart as heard through his intricate melodies and poetic lyr -
ics. His second album, more on 
the experimental side of indie sound, is a beautiful achievement of words and sounds. His lyrics 
and the accompanying music can each stand alone and be equally admired for their artistic won-ders. If one prediction can be 
taken away from this, it is that 
Vernon will not be leaving the Staples Center without a GRAM-MY in hand on Feb. 12.
The Best New Artist category 
has stirred up a bit of controversy due to its list of nominees. The nominees for the career-making award include: The Band Perry, 
Bon Iver, J. Cole, Nicki Minaj and 
Skrillex. The last name on this list may be unfamiliar. Skrillex, the stage name for Sonny John 
Moore, is an electronic music 
producer. The argument is that being a producer does not mean you are a performer, but Skrillex 
is an artist; therefore, his nomina-
tion for Best New Artist stands. The possibility of him winning is a whole other story. 
So far, performances by the 
Foo Fighters, Bruno Mars, Nicki Minaj and Taylor Swift have been confirmed, though a few surprise acts are likely to take the stage on Feb. 12. 
After all, what would an 
awards show at the Staples Cen-ter be without a couple of unex-pected moments and pleasant 
surprises?12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
Alligator Staff
Award Season Mini Calendar
Ceremony 
Golden Globes
SAG Awards
(Screen Actors Guild)
BAFTA Awards
(British Academy of Film and 
Television Arts)
Grammy Awards
Independent Spirit Awards
Academy Awards
(Oscars)Date
Sunday, Jan. 15
Sunday, Jan. 29
Sunday, Feb. 12
Sunday, Feb. 12
Saturday, Feb. 25
Sunday, Feb. 26Network / Time
NBC / 8 PM
TNT / 8PM
Not Aired
CBS / 8PM
IFC / 10 PM
ABC 7PMGRAMMY guesses: Music awards are always excitingALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
When the holiday box office bucks begin 
to total, it’s time again for Hollywood to pre-
pare itself for its own sort of jovial celebra-tion – awards season! Yes, folks, it’s that time again – the time for Tinseltown’s finest, the recording industry’s royalty and the biggest stars in the world to join forces in celebrat-ing each other’s achievements… and egos. 
Here are some predictions for the year’s 
most prestigious entertainment awards.
Less than a month before the Academy 
Awards are presented, the SAGs focus on the performances themselves. It’s 
a departure from the competitive nature of 
films, which allows the actors to relive the 
year’s best characters.
Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor 
in a Leading Role: Jean Dujardin – “The 
Artist”
A critical darling, as well as recent Golden 
Globe winner for Best Picture – Comedy or 
Musical, “The Artist” emerged as this year’s 
aptly fitting artsy front-runner. Dujardin’s 
role made critics and audiences alike take notice of the industry’s past and relive its ups and downs all over again.
Possible Upset: It’s a tie! George Clooney 
– “The Descendants” / Brad Pitt – “Mon-
eyball”
These two Hollywood heavyweights (and 
close friends) had a big year, both receiv-ing much praise for their respective roles. However, with his additional publicity for 
directing the drama “The Ides of March,” as 
well as his Golden Globes win for Best Per -
formance by an Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama, Clooney may claim the Oscar.
Possible Upset: Another tie! Meryl Streep 
– “The Iron Lady” / Viola Davis – “The 
Help”
Streep is notorious for completely en-
veloping herself in her character, and her turn as British force Margaret Thatcher is no exception. However, even though Streep received the Globe in her category, Davis’ 
heart-wrenching portrayal of a struggling 
housemaid in the segregated south of the 1960s might be powerful enough to blow away Williams’ voluptuous vixen.
Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor 
in a Supporting Role: Kenneth Branagh – 
“My Week with Marilyn”
Branagh’s turn as Sir Lawrence Olivier is 
another example of the British actor’s mas-terful grasp of character. He embodied the stature of such a powerful stage and screen figure with intense pomp.
Possible Upset: Christopher Plummer – 
“Beginners”
Arguably one of the most surprising 
Globe winners, Plummer’s poignant por -
trayal of a man discovering his sexuality at 
an older age may follow the general pattern 
and snag the SAG award. (You might re-
member him as Captain Von Trapp in “The 
Sound of Music.”)The most celebrated night in Hollywood never ceases to shock, awe and inspire 
the millions of viewers as the year’s 
biggest films are recognized. Even though 
the nominations haven’t been released yet 
(look for the announcement on Jan. 24), the 
categories generally follow a pattern after 
the Golden Globe winners are announced.
Best Picture: “The Artist”
In a year of films receiving nominations 
based on individual performances rather than overall cinematic quality, this silent, 
foreign film seems to have the most criti-cal acclaim and overall approval to win the night’s biggest honor.
Possible Underdog: “The Descendants”
After winning the Golden Globe for Best 
Motion Picture – Drama, director Alexander Payne’s heavily praised work is just cause for a battle with the French film.
Best Actor: George Clooney – “The De-
scendants”
A professional when it comes to snag-
ging nominations, Clooney has been heavily praised (and already recognized with both the Critics’ Choice Award and Golden Globe 
for Best Actor) for his role as a run-down fa-
ther in this film-festival darling. 
On top of his trip behind the camera for 
“The Ides of March,” the power (and public-ity) of Clooney’s past year could allow his win.  Possible Underdog: Jean Dujardin – “The 
Artist”
The Academy is notorious (and, for some, 
borderline pretentious) when it comes to picking “underdog” nominees — and Du-
jardin is no exception. Already a Globe win-
ner, it’s possible that the French actor could win the Oscar due to sheer artistic curiosity.
Best Actress: Michelle Williams – “My 
Week with Marilyn”
In one of the most widely talked about 
roles of the year, Williams is practically spot-on, both in breath and in body, as Marilyn 
Monroe. The magnitude of the role and the 
bombshell behind it may be just enough to snag the statue after her Golden Globe win.
Possible Underdog: Viola Davis – “The 
Help”
Davis was utterly emotional as the silent 
but strong housemaid in the “dramedy,” 
and her recent Critics Choice Award win for 
Best Actress could be the key to winning the 
Oscar. 
But Wait! What About…?: Meryl Streep – 
“The Iron Lady”
Unfortunately for Streep, the film doesn’t 
seem to be getting as much attention as some 
of her previous roles. Streep is widely re-
garded as one of Hollywood’s best actresses 
(she won the Globe this year for Best Per -
formance by an Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama), the other knockout performances in her category may cause her portrayal of 
Margaret Thatcher to fall flat.Award show predictions have so many possibilities
Screen Actors Guild AwardsThe Academy Awards (Oscars)
musicTHURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-25-11-72-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-25-72-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com
4-25-11-72-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
4-25-11-72-1
$795-2/2 Furnished Apt. On bus route, 1.5 
miles to UF campus. W/D, AC, Cable and in-
ternet included. Pool, Fitness ctr., computer 
lab. No application fee. Yearly and monthly 
lease. 305-793-4290.   1-25-11-22-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-25-11-72-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600
$99 Move In Special!
352-372-7555
FrederickGardens.com
4-25-11-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House 
charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. 
Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer 
included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. 
Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-25-11-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
4-25-11-72-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679
Great Location – Butler Plaza
Call 352-373-1111
4-25-11-72-2 ***MAKE US YOUR HOME***
·         Water/sewer included * Pets Ok
·         Pools*Tennis*Bball*Fitness*Tan
·         1 from $629 * 2 from $715
·         3 from $830 * 4 from $1125
·         376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com
4-25-11-72-2
MOVE IN BY JANUARY 5th
2/2: $300 Cash Back
3/3: $500 Cash Back
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
4-25-72-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-25-11-72-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-25-11-72-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   
4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!
●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!
●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com4-25-11-72-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
14, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-
cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & 
washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 
4352-335-4455    4-25-11-72-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000
●4/2 in NW $1300.
Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com       4-25-11-72-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. 
Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! 
Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave - Across from law school
$1650-special spring rate! - 4BR/2BA
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-31-12-16-2
SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
2BR/1.5BA close to UF, Shands,Vet School
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Contact our office to
inquire about student specials!!!!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting from $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. $900/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183     1-24-11-10-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099    2-6-12-21-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
1-31-12-16-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA great house. 
Fireplace, wash/dry provided, dishwasher, wood floors, fenced. Pets OK. 7 min bike to campus. $1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342. Gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-20-12-9-2
Beautiful 2-story house. 2.5 miles from UF. 
5BR/2.5BA 2400sq.ft. on large treed lot. Very quiet neighbrhd. H/W & tile floors, W/D, ref, stove, dishwasher. $1600/mo & security deposit. 727-686-1404 Available now!   1-24-11-10-2
3BR/1.5BA in Pleasant St, historic district, 
dwntwn. Ceiling fans, wood floors. Porch, newly painted. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. $1100/mo call April. 538-1550aprleve@aol.com   1-31-12-15-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    1-31-12-14-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA large house w/ big 
bedrooms & living room, extra game room. Fenced. Pets ok. W/D provided. 352-335-2342 or text 2100 NW 8th Court. $1400/mo or go to gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-20-12-7-21/1 spacious apt, $500,quiet, private,trees, 
close to downtown and UF, bus to SFC, car-
pet & tile, pvt. patio w/locking gate, for calm, 
stable, mature people.1824 NW 9th St. 352 
284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   2-1-12-14-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/3BA house. Incredibly 
beautiful, clean, modern house. W/D pro-
vided, fireplace, vaulted ceilings, lg rooms. 
2108 NW 8th Ct. Text or call 352-339-2342. 
$1550/mo. gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  
1-20-12-4-2
AVAILABLE NOW!! 
WALK TO UF! Nice 2BR/1BA house. $450/
mo. Call Richard 371-4367   1-30-10-2
1 BED/1 BATH. Walk to Shands/UF.
Great kitchen and bath with w/d, disposal, 
dishwasher. Overlooks creek and trees. 
Small pet ok. $535+ deposit. 352-371-9520, 
352-317-2642    2-14-12-20-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus 
Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun 
Subdivision. Clean & neat. New carpet.  $700/
mo. Call 352-871-7801 pfitz100@yahoo.com   
1-25-12-5-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   2-15-
12-20-2-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun -
dry 372-3783    2-15-12-20-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Full size hottub 
on back screened porch. W/D incl, DW, car-port. Across from one of nicest parks in Gville. 3413 NW 8th Ave. $1600/mo. Call or text 352-339-2342 gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  1-20-12-2-2Avail Aug 1st. 1BR/1BA house, fireplace, 
wood floors, W/D, 1 block from campus.106 
SW 12th St. $525/mo. Call or text 352-339-
2342. website: gainesvillequalityrentalhous -
es.com   1-20-12-2-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, 
pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. 
Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & 
pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-20-12-2-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA huge house close to 
campus. Fireplace, wood floors, nice private 
backyard, W/D included. 1105 NW 10th Ave. 
Call or text 352-339-2342. $1550/mo. More 
info on gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   
1-20-12-2-2
Luxury apartment at the Palms Downtown 
2BR/2BA SUBLEASE Jan-June 2011. 2 park-
ing spaces, Stainless steel, granite, washer/
dryer, HUGE closets right downtown, safe, 
exclusive luxury building. Just $1100/month 
($200 off normal rates) Email me for details: 
andrewufl@gmail.com   1-20-7-3
Districts on 62nd: 1/1 in Male 3/3 furnished 
apt. $407/month includes utilities credit, cable, high-speed internet. Near Oaks Mall, UF + SFC, on bus route. Move in 2/1/12 w/lease end 7/31/12. Some fees will apply.Criminal background check. 386-747-1401.   1-20-12-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-25-72-4Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $369/MO
cable, internet, utilities, pool+ more
beautifully renovated, on bus route,  
Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-24-
12-24-4
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325
jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com  
1-23-12-15-4
Roommates needed. House 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row, near Shands, Tigert, Mid/Downtown. 4 lg BR/2BA. Students preferred! Huge, very clean home. Cent AC/H, FP , W/D, new wd flrs, DW, 5 extra closets, fenced yard, plenty of parking, on quiet street. Only $398/mo/room. Call/text Jordan 305-896-90661-31-19-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
1-30-12-15-5
CONDO FOR SALE - SPARROW
3BR/2.5BA, 2-story. Approximately 1700 sq. 
ft., completely renovated. $65,000. Please call Drew 316-4465   2-10-12-20-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.   4-25-72-6
 THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       
4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
WE PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR CELL PHONES! 
REGARDLESS OF AGE OR CONDITION EVEN IF BROKEN! TECHMODO 6450 SW ARCHER RD 352-872-5881. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK!  1-31-15-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in 
bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER 
REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM 
& AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE 
PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-
73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I BUY JUNK CARS
●●● TOP PRICES PAID!●●●
Call Anytime 352-443-11001-31-11-65-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-1292 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $999
94 FORD TAURUS $999
96 HONDA ACCORD $1499
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $1999
98 FORD F250 $2500
02 CHEVY BLAZER $4999
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $1999
01 DODGE NEON $1999
00 OLDS ALERO $2500
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLES
NO CREDIT CHECK
MOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!
352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!
PRICES SLASHED!!!!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $8999
03 MITS ECLIPSE $7999
05 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999
352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $12999
04 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.comThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
VIDEO TECH
ACCOUNTING EDITOR
AVIATION EDITOR
PROOFREADER
LINUX ADMIN
ACT COORDINATOR
GRAPHICS DESIGNER
AVIATION SALES
SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Career and non-career positions available.
Please apply online at
www.gleim.com/employment             1-24-
27-14
 Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   1-31-12-27-14
NOW HIRING
Outstanding Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2012
ADV3008         ENT3003               MAR3023
BSC2010         ENY1001               MUH4016BSC2011         FOS2001               PSY2012BUL4310         GEB3373               RTV3405ECO2013        MAN3025               STA2023ECO2023        MAN4504          … and more!
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-23-11-15-14
TUTORS FOR SPRING 1-on-1 tutoring at-
risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net1-31-12-15-14
A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
16, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needs
college students for summer camp counselors 
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp 
located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 
11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. 
www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx
4-25-12-72-14
Sports Director for i9 Sports. Flexible hrs w/ 
20-25 hrs a week required. Must love kids, 
sports, and have a self motivating attitude. 
Great experience for Sports Mgmt students. 
Send resume to jhetzel@i9sports.com.   
1-20-9-14
FT NANNIES NEEDED NOW: 18 mon/
triplets; M-F 8-5; prev. exp; LONG TERM 
COMMIT ONLY! Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail 
resume, pix, & schedule to info@noah -
sarknanny.com   1-19-12-9-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi -
cated people who love working with children. 
FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA 
in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 
377-2290 or 373-1481   1-24-12-10-14
Marketing Assistant
Heat Pipe Technology Inc, a local manu-
facturer is looking for a part time marketing 
assistant: 10-20 hours per week at
$10/hour. Flexible schedule.
Please respond to: sales@heatpipe.com
1-25-12-10-14
Medical Office Manager Trainee wanted for 
mid-sized dermatology practice. Duties in-
clude performing or supervising ICD-9/CPT 
coding, billing and collections; A/R; payroll 
management; employee supervision and 
maintenance of employee records and ben-
efits; insurance evaluation and contracting; 
interfacing with clinical staff and physicians; 
preparing financial reports and interfacing 
with accountant. Seeking a mature, ener-getic individual with experience but will train 
motivated candidate. Salary, benefits and 
possible incentive commensurate with ex-
perience. Bachelor's degree desired. Email resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com.    1-23-12-7-14
Receptionist needed for a professional office 
with a creative,entrepreneurial,team based work environment competitive pay + benefits FT/PT M-F 9-5 email resume toCorey@mssgainesville.com    1-24-12-7-14
UF Survey Research Center
Spanish speakers needed!
Telephone Interviewers: NO SALES
$8.75-$9.25/hr + Incentive
Great Resume Builder
(352) 392-2908 Ext: 105
720 SW 2nd Ave Suite 156
1-20-12-5-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
WAITPERSON NEEDED
Sawamura Japanese Steakhouse. Apply from 2:30 to 4pm at 1624 SW 13th St. No calls please.   1-20-5-14A SPANISH TUTOR. $25/hr
CONVERSATIONAL SPANISH. GOOD 
PERSONALITY. APPLY IN PERSON AT 3535 N MAIN ST.ASK FOR JIM.    1-24-7-14
Medical Research Assistant
Phys Therapy Clinic.
CVs to larryw@clearpassage.com    1-20-12-4-14
Getyournotes.com
is now hiring note takers.
Apply online at http://Getyournotesatuf.com    
1-20-4-14
One serious hardworking and trustworthy UF 
student. Gen or const labor, exp w/electrical 
& plumbing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy 
lifting. PT flex hrs. $7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 
376-6183     1-20-12-3-14
SEDENTARY adults (50+) needed to par-
ticipate in a UF GetUpAndGo study re: ac-
curacy/likability of advanced pedometer. 
COMPENSATION provided. Call 336-406-
3706 or email fitbit10000@gmail.com   1-23-
4-14
Transcribe audio dictations. Create your 
own skd M-F, 7am -midnight. Comp 7.67 - 
$12+ hourly, based on speed and accuracy. 
Close to campus. Ideal for PT and Students! 
Requires 70+ wpm, a minimum of 16 hours 
per week, English as first language.
gnvjobs@uigfla.com    1-24-12-5-14
Preschool teacher assitant needed for af-
ternoons M-F..Experince preferred, but will train the right person. Please call 352-373-
5856   1-25-12-5-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.comPrivate Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-
try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider 
housing available. Barn Family Program to 
mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling 
opportunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    
2-29-11-51-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    1-31-12-12-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   2-15-12-25-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
$★ Meet Girls - Make Money ★ $
Send a Self Addressed Stamped Envelope 
to: P O Box 6200, Gainesville, FL 32627 STOP BEING LONELY, BORED, BROKE!!!1-20-2-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-DuskSkeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad 
in the classifieds to find trip arrangements 
or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay 
$. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-25-72-18
Best religion? NO religion!
Get to know your Creator. See why the Bible 
is unique. Fullfilled prophecy.Try www.endtimepilgrim.org on YouTube Videos. "Daniel's Prophecy of the 70 Weeks?   
1-25-12-5-18
Need performance credit?
5$ student tkts - Monday, Jan.23, 7 pm
'The Nightingale and the Rose'
Hippodrome Theatre, 375-HIPP    1-23-12-
8-20
Own a Home Biz! Average $200-$600/
week! Cash for school/fun! Earn more for 
Referrals! Free Workshop! 888-754-5368. 
www.2012homebiz.com    1-20-12-4-20
Free. 50% profit share incentive offered to 
first users of new search engine. Launching 
soon. The next Google? Time limited regis-
tration. www.makemoneyfromyoursearchen -
gine.com  1-1912-1-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Orange and Blue Debut 
The Gators annual spring game has been set for 
Saturday, April 7, at 1 p.m. at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Students, boosters and alumni get in free. Tebow reportedly played through injury in playoff game
Former Gators and current Broncos quarterback Tim Tebow reportedly played with torn cartilage on one of his ribs, a bruised lung and fluid buildup in his chest around his lungs in last weekend’s playoff loss to the Patriots. JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
In Florida’s last meeting with Al-
abama, the bleeding had seemingly 
stopped.
Mired in a three-game South-
eastern Conference losing streak in February last year, the Gators led the Crimson Tide 34-24 at halftime 
in Tuscaloosa.
But Florida’s lead did not last as 
Alabama made its move in the sec-
ond half, outscoring UF 29-9  in the first 12 minutes en route to a 64-59 victory.
With the win, the Crimson Tide’s 
SEC record improved to 2-10, and 
they dragged the Gators down with 
them.
The loss put Florida at 4-9 in the 
SEC, guaranteeing a second straight season with a losing record in league 
play for the Gators.
“In prior years, Alabama always 
steals a win from us,” senior center 
Azania Stewart said. “I’m definitely 
getting the girls focused and ready 
for that game.”
Florida (12-6, 2-3 SEC) and Ala-
bama (10-9, 0-5) are again on the wrong side of .500 in the conference heading into tonight’s game at 7 p.m. in the O’Connell Center.
Unfortunately for the Gators and 
the Tide, their first matchup of the year marks the fifth straight time they have played while both sport losing league records.
While a win could vault Florida 
right back into the race for the con-
ference crown, Alabama has a much 
bumpier road to recovery, win or lose. But that doesn’t mean coach Amanda Butler and the Gators are looking past tonight’s game. 
“Their SEC record at this point 
is no indication of what they’re ca-pable of,” Butler said. “They have shown us the past three years that 
we’ve got to play our best against 
them or else we’ll be disappoint-ed.”
Last year’s loss to ‘Bama was one of five defeats in which Florida blew a double-digit lead after halftime.
UF showed some troubling signs 
of deja vu against LSU last Sunday, coming within one possession of 
surrendering a 15-point advantage 
late in the second half of a 62-58 win.
“It’s really hard to be up by any 
number of points on any of the teams in this league, especially a great team like LSU, and feel com-fortable with a 15-point lead,” But-ler said.
“We were able to hold onto it 
and that’s what we really felt good about.”
The Gators have had each of 
Fully healthy and more mature, 
Florida junior gymnast Marissa King has taken on a leadership role this season. See story, page 20.
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Erik Murphy has used an offseason arrest and a spell of injuries to ma-
ture in his junior season in Gainesville. Murphy leads the team with 23 blocks this year.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
When an elbow smashed into the side 
of his face two weeks ago in practice, 
splitting his eyebrow the length of eight 
stitches, Erik Murphy didn’t panic.
Though the blood and the pain certain-
ly came as a shock, the injury above his right eye was nothing new. He had been hit in the same spot years ago in a high 
school practice, and then, just as now, it 
hurt.
With trickles of blood developing 
down half of his face, Murphy, a 6-foot-10 forward, recalled a tidbit of information that calmed him after sophomore center 
Patric Young accidentally cut him.
“When you get hit in the face or the 
head, it bleeds a lot,” Murphy said. “So after I looked in the mirror, I wasn’t too 
worried about it.”
In his third year at Florida, Murphy 
has learned from more than just his inju-ries. According to coach Billy Donovan, it is Murphy’s newfound maturity that has 
been the most important development in 
the first-time starter’s junior season.
Last April, Murphy and redshirt fresh-
man Cody Larson were suspended indefi-nitely by Donovan after the two players 
were arrested and charged with misde-
meanor trespassing outside a bar in St. Augustine. They were not reinstated until 
September.
When Murphy rejoined the team, 
Donovan noticed a change in the person he said could be unreliable on the court 
and known to disappear at times during games. 
“Believe it or not, I felt terrible about what happened in the spring,” Donovan said. “I know Erik does too. It’s been re-hearsed and talked about, but I do think 
there was a lot of good that came out of 
that. You know, as painful as it was for everybody … I think it really forced him 
to do some soul searching.”
Donovan asked Murphy to reflect on 
how his career at Florida had gone up to that point. 
Sitting for two years in a deep front-
court rotation, he had as many suspen-sions as starts and was running out of 
time to change how his collegiate career would be remembered.
The message sunk in. Murphy quickly 
made a point to mentally prepare more for games 
as well as practices.
“Especially this year, 
playing a little bit bigger of a role than I have in 
the past, trying to come out and do everything 
the team needs and 
coach asks for,” he said. 
While Murphy was known heading 
into the season as more of a finesse big man who could shoot, rather than a de-fensive stopper, he now leads the Gators 
with 21 blocked shots — one more than 
the 6-foot-9 Young, who has played in three more games.
Though Murphy had just 23 blocks in 
his career prior to this season, he has re-jected a shot in six straight games — some-
thing he attributes to rededicating himself 
to watching film and lifting weights.
“The one thing that’s probably a little 
bit unassuming about him is he does have Injuries, offseason trouble 
help Murphy grow as player
Gators eyeing matchup with pesky Crimson Tide squadSee HOOPS, PA ge 19
See W-HOOPS, PA ge 19Last three contests decided by six points or fewer
“In prior years, Alabama 
always steals a win from 
us. I’m definitely getting the 
girls focused and ready for 
that game.”
Azania Stewart
UF senior centerDonovan
18, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
THE TOM GREEN SHOW
  At ﬁ  rst glance, Will Muschamp’s 
hire of former Boise State offensive coordinator Brent Pease to ﬁ  ll the 
vacancy at Florida seems like a great one.
  The move to bring in Pease wasn’t a 
huge splash, like when Charlie Weis took the job last year, but it appears to be a solid 
hire by an up-and-coming coach trying to 
rebuild a storied program.
J  ust look at the numbers Pease’s offense 
put up in his only season as the Broncos’ playcaller. 
Boise State was ninth in the nation in 
total offense (481.31 yards per game), ﬁ  fth in scoring offense (44.23 points per game), 11th in passing offense (309.38 yards per 
game) and 40th in rushing offense (171.92 
yards per game).
  Naturally, you would expect the Pease 
hire to be a home run for a Florida squad that was in the bottom half of FBS in most 
offensive categories last season. 
The Gators were near polar opposites of 
the Broncos in 2011, ranking 105th in to-
tal offense (328.69 yards per game), 71st in 
scoring (25.46 points per contest), 89th in 
passing (185.69 yards per game) and 73rd in rushing offense (143 yards per game).
  While Pease’s offense turned heads at 
Boise State last season, he also had Kellen 
Moore, the winningest quarterback in col-
lege football history, running the show.
Things become a lot easier when Moore 
and his 50-3 record (with the three losses 
coming by a combined ﬁ  ve points) are ex-
ecuting the plays.
  Before Pease was named the offensive 
coordinator at Boise State prior to last sea-son, he was average — and I use that term 
very loosely — as an FBS offensive coor-
dinator. 
While Pease had ﬁ  ve seasons leading 
an offense before landing in Idaho, take a 
look at just his ﬁ  rst years at Kentucky in 
2001 and Baylor in 2003.
  With the Wildcats, Pease’s ﬁ  rst season 
was middling. Kentucky ﬁ  nished with the nation’s 56th-ranked offense (382.82 yards 
per contest) en route to a 2-9 record and 
the second-worst ﬁ  nish in the Southeast-ern Conference. 
The Wildcats’ scoring offense was 
bad (80th in the nation at 23.55 points per game), and their rushing offense was worse, ranking 100th overall.
  The only silver 
lining to Kentucky’s offense under Pease was its passing, with the ‘Cats ﬁ  n-
ishing in the top 20 
nationally. 
He didn’t fare much better in his sec-
ond season.
  At Baylor in 2003, Pease had the fourth-
worst offense in the nation, with the Bears ﬁ  nishing 114th in total offense, 110th in scoring, 102nd in rushing and 98th in pass-ing. 
The following two seasons showed im-
provements — barely.
  While Pease surely beneﬁ  ted the last 
six years learning under the tutelage of of-fensive guru Chris Petersen at Boise State, 
Pease’s numbers as a coordinator shouldn’t 
make Gators fans overly excited for next season, especially with two unproven un-derclassmen vying for the quarterback job, 
a patchwork offensive line and no reliable 
option returning in the backﬁ  eld.  So while Muschamp said he found the 
right ﬁ  t for Florida, only time will tell whether Coach Boom hit this one out of 
the park, or struck out for the second time 
in a row.
  Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.
org. 
 Numbers tell the story: Pease’s UF success not guaranteed
Tom Green
twitter: @tomas_verde
Judging Brent Pease
The year before Pease:  
- Kentucky in 2000: 11th in total offense, 
75th in scoring offense, 2nd in passing of-
fense, 92nd in rushing offense. 
- Baylor in 2002: 95th in total offense,  
115th in scoring offense, 47th in passing 
offense, 105th in rushing offense.
In Pease’s last year:
- Kentucky in 2002: 87th in total offense, 
23rd in scoring offense, 70th in passing offense, 57th in rushing offense.
- Baylor in 2003 : 97th in total offense,
 91st 
in scoring offense, 76th in passing offense, 
99th in rushing offense.   JOHN BOOTHE
 Alligator Staff Writer
 After limping through Florida’s ﬁ  rst 
three conference games, Patric Young is 
ﬁ  nally getting some much needed rest.
  The No. 17 Gators are currently on their 
lone bye week in Southeastern Conference play, which couldn’t have come at a better 
time for Young. 
The right ankle of Young, Florida’s 
starting center and leading rebounder, 
has developed tendinitis over the last two 
weeks.
  “Right now he’s got a lot of inﬂ  amma-
tion around that area,” coach Billy Dono-
van said. 
“Trying to give it some time to calm 
down. The doctors have worked on it, the trainers have been working on it but there’s no structural damage. There’s no ligament damage.”
  Last Saturday, Young had to come off 
the bench for the ﬁ  rst time this season, scoring four points in 13 minutes — both season lows — during Florida’s 79-65 win at South Carolina.  
  “Just watching him move around the 
day of the game, we need guys out there that are able to give a better effort,” Dono-van said. “It’s not that he doesn’t want to 
give a better effort, I think he was physi-
cally ailing that he couldn’t give the effort he wanted, so that’s what the decision was 
based on.” 
  The Gators won’t be in action again un-
til Saturday, when they host LSU at 6 p.m.  While Donovan said Young will deﬁ  -
nitely see playing time this weekend, the 
only way the sophomore can start is if he is able to participate in practice. 
So far this week, Young has yet to make 
it through one.
  Young’s replacement, sophomore for-
ward Will Yeguete, found out during Flor-ida’s shootaround the day of the South 
Carolina game that he would be getting 
the start. 
  After replacing an injured Erik Murphy 
earlier in the season, Yeguete slid into a starter’s role for the sixth time and posted 
a career-high 14 points with eight boards 
in 30 minutes on the court — the most he’s seen in a Gators uniform.
  “I appreciate Will a lot, because the 
stuff that he does for our team is just unbe-lievable,” said junior guard Mike Rosario. “Like chasing down loose balls, getting eight or nine rebounds when Pat is out; it’s unbelievable how that guy stepped up the 
last couple games for us.”
  Even if Yeguete is able to recreate his career night, Florida’s depreciated front-
court will need more of an impact from 
Young against LSU, the SEC leader in of-
fensive rebounding. 
  Last weekend, South Carolina was able 
to outrebound Florida 30-25 with a 14-7 advantage on the offensive boards, lead-
ing to 16 second-chance points. 
  “[Young] did a little workout yester-day,” said junior forward Erik Murphy. “I 
saw him sweating; I don’t know if it was 
from lifting or — I mean he sweats a lot — 
but he’s getting better every day I think. 
“He looks like he’s not laboring on it as 
much.”
  Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.
org. 
really good length, he’s got 
long arms,” Donovan said. 
“I wouldn’t classify him as 
a shot blocker, I think guys have shot balls into his hands 
more so than he’s gone up 
and rejected them.”
  Since recovering from a 
knee injury in late November, Murphy has also emerged as one of Florida’s more reliable 
scorers. 
On 54 shots, he has hit 
a team-high 46.3 percent of his threes and has reached 
double-ﬁ  gures in seven of his last nine games, including a 
career-high 18 points against 
Yale.
  “The offseason issue, you 
grow up really quick,” Mur-phy said. “Deﬁ  nitely, it was a blessing in disguise I think 
to grow up mentally and ma-
ture. And then the injuries, that stuff just happens. At the 
end of the season, you have 
to deal with that.”
  After spending the last 
couple weeks with a bandage over his eyebrow, Murphy ﬁ  nally had his stitches taken 
out on Wednesday, revealing 
a red, inﬂ  amed scar. 
  While he’s hoping it won’t 
linger as a permanent re-
minder of how hard 
Young can 
swing his 
elbows, in 
compari-
son to what Murphy has 
had to over-
come just to play this season, 
it wouldn’t really matter. 
  “It should go away, hope-
fully,” Murphy said. “If not, not a big deal.”
  Contact John Boothe at 
jboothe@alligator.org.  THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 19
HOOPS , from page 17Murphy emerging as 
one of Florida’s most reliable 3-point shooters Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
  Sophomore center Patric Young (4), shown here with guard Scottie Wilbekin (5) and 
forward Casey Prather (24), has been dealing with tendinitis in his right ankle.  
MEN’S BASKETBALL Young’s status in question 
for Saturday against LSU
Gators playing SEC opponents close
their ﬁ  ve SEC games decided by six 
points or fewer. 
  One of the conference losses 
came at home on New Year’s Day against No. 6 Kentucky , Florida’s opponent on Sunday.
  The Gators need a quality win 
on the road against the Wildcats in order to beef up their NCAA Tour-nament resume.
  Senior guard Deana Allen ad-
mitted that earning a spot in the 
“Big Dance” has created a sense of 
urgency for Florida with the regular season hitting the home stretch.
  In particular, Allen emphasized 
that this season represents the ﬁ  nal chance for the Gators’ ﬁ  ve seniors to compete for a national champi-onship.
  But Butler notes the importance 
of taking a more conservative ap-proach, focusing on the task at hand and competing in the SEC — “the 
things that matter most.”
  “I’d be lying if I said we don’t 
think about [the NCAA Tourna-
ment],” Butler said. “If we beat Alabama or lose to Alabama, how it affects our NCAA record doesn’t 
impact us right now.” 
Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@
alligator.org. W-HOOPS , from page 17
By the Numbers: Florida vs. Alabama-Florida and Alabama’s common opponents this season have been Ole Miss, South Carolina and LSU. ‘Bama is winless and UF is 2-1 in those games.-The Gators have lost three out of their last four meetings against the Crimson Tide.-Coach Amanda Butler’s all-time record against Alabama at Florida is 3-3.-Tonight’s game marks the ﬁ  fth consecutive meeting between the Gators and the Crimson Tide where both squads have sub-.500 SEC records.-The last three games in this series have been decided by six points or fewer.(Alabama 64, Florida 59 on Feb. 13, 2011; Florida 70, Ala-bama 64 on Jan. 27, 2011;Alabama 66, Florida 61 on Feb. 28, 2010)By the numbers: 
Florida vs. alabama
Florida and Alabama’s com-
mon opponents this season have been:•Ole Miss•South Carolina•LSU‘Bama is winless and UF is 2-1 in those games.The Gators have 
lost three out of their last four meetings against the Crimson Tide.
Tonight’s game marks the 
ﬁ  fth consecutive meeting between the Gators and the Crimson Tide where both squads have sub-.500 SEC records.At Florida, 
coach Amanda Butler’s all-time record against Alabama is 3-3.The last three games in this series have 
been decided by six points or fewer.1) Feb. 13, 2011: Alabama 64, Florida 592) Jan. 27, 2011: Florida 70, Alabama 643) Feb. 28, 2010: Alabama 66, Florida 61
Natalie Teer / Alligator Staff“I appreciate Will (Yeguete) a lot, 
because the stuff that he does for 
our team is just unbelievable. Like 
chasing down loose balls, getting 
eight or nine rebounds when Pat is 
out; it’s unbelievable how that guy 
stepped up the last couple games 
for us.”
Mike Rosario
UF junior guard
Murphy
20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
GYMNASTICS
LANDON WATNICK
Alligator Writer 
 
Marissa King has always had the talent, 
but over time she has developed the matu-
rity to go along with it. 
In her third season as a Gator, King has 
made strides for No. 8 Florida.  Not only has King, a six-time All-American, posted solid scores in UF’s first two meets this 
year, but she has also embraced being a 
team leader.  
“It’s incredible to see the leadership role 
she’s taken on this year,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. “It’s very obvious she’s taken 
ownership of her talent.”
A native of Cambridge, England, King 
arrived in Gainesville in the fall of 2009 
with an extensive resume. She represented 
Great Britain at the 2008 Beijing Olympic 
Games, and competed at the 2007 and 2009 World Artistic Gymnastics Champion-ships, among other events. 
Since King was used to only competing 
as an individual, her early goings at Flori-
da were up and down. 
As a freshman, King had trouble grasp-
ing the team concept. Faehn said King 
would sometimes get frustrated easily in 
the gym. 
Although King’s 2010 regular season 
campaign was solid, she struggled at the 
NCAA Super Six Team Final, posting an all-around score of 37.275, more than two 
points lower than her season-best.
“I consistently told her as a freshman 
and sophomore, ‘You have the potential 
to win a national all-around title. You 
have the potential to do some really great 
things,’” Faehn said. “I [didn’t] know if she necessarily believed me.”
But over time, King learned to believe 
in herself, and her teammates. 
“I feel like I have bonded closer with 
the girls,” King said.  “I’ve kind of stepped up because I now know what it feels like to compete individually, but in a team.”
Experiencing success at Florida has also 
strengthened King’s confidence and com-posure. 
In King’s first season, the Gators won 
a Southeastern Conference Championship. Last year, King took home the individual NCAA vault title. King also said communication with 
Faehn has helped develop her game. 
“If there’s anything hurting me, or any-
thing that’s on my mind, she [says] to just communicate,” King said. “Communica-tion was the thing I really lacked my fresh-
man year.”
With King’s fortitude growing, other ar -
eas of her game have also improved, such as her strength on balance beam. 
Throughout her sophomore season, 
King fought two nagging injuries — a left 
pectoral muscle tear and a bruise on her foot — that adversely affected her per -
formance on beam. Due to these injuries, 
Faehn held King out of nearly half of last 
season’s beam lineups. 
But in the Gators’ 196.175-191.875 vic-
tory over Illinois-Chicago last Friday, King recorded a career-high on beam (9.925), 
which was good for her second-straight 
beam title. 
“Last year, I was just really inconsistent 
on the beam and I really want to be up 
there on the beam lineup this year,” King 
said. 
When No. 8 Florida (2-0) travels to Lex-
ington, Ky., to take on Kentucky (2-2, 0-1 SEC) at the Memorial Coliseum Friday 
night, King will compete as an all-around-
er for the second time this season.
“She’s still on the rise,” Faehn said. 
“She stills has ways to go, and that’s what 
the beauty of it is.”Healthy, more mature King returning to all-around competition
Alligator File Photo
Gators junior all-around gymnast Marissa King has made a return to the beam this 
season after injuries limited her ability to fully compete in the event during 2011. 
Life of a King
Key dates highlighting Marissa King’s UF 
career:
March 19, 2010:  Scored a 39.575 as an all-
around competitor against then-No. 9 Utah to 
win her first all-around title. The total remains 
her career-high.
March 27, 2010: Tied for fourth overall in the 
all-around category (39.325) at the Southeast -
ern Conference Championships.
April 23, 2010:  Struggled at the NCAA Super 
Six Team Final, recording an all-around total of 
37.275 as Florida finished fifth (197.10).
Feb. 4, 2011:  Scored a 9.975 on floor exercise 
against No. 6 Alabama, which was UF’s highest 
event score on floor, as well as a national best, in the 2011 season.
April 17, 2011:  Took home the NCAA Vault title 
with a 9.875, returning the vault title to
Florida for the first time since 1998 (Susan Hines).
Jan. 13:  Recorded a career best on balance 
beam (9.925) against Illinois-Chicago to win her 
second beam title in as many meets.“It’s incredible to see the leader -
ship role she’s taken on this year. 
It’s very obvious she’s taken owner -
ship of her talent.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF coach