VOLUME 106 ISSUE 105 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Glitch opens basketball game to all students
Ticket ofﬁ  ce accidentally sent erroneous email, pg 5.  
Tips for students ﬁ  lling out tax forms
Local tax experts offer advice , pg 9. Grilled Cheese Wagon a gooey treat
Williston man sells sandwiches from grilled 
cheese food truck locally and at music festivals, pg. 4. 
Florida looks to 
continue its 
hot shooting 
streak tonight at 7 
against Auburn 
in the O’Dome. 
See story, page 14.
76/49
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  13
SPORTS 14 Elizabeth Hamilton / Alligator
  A stack of Alligator newspapers sit unread in a trash bin at Weimer Hall on Monday morning. 
  STAFF REPORT
  
  At about 9:15 a.m. Monday , 268 
crisp Alligator newspapers were found shoved into a trash bin on the north side 
of Weimer Hall. They were crowned 
by one newspaper with a wind-blown 
cover bearing the headline: “Muschamp endorses Student Government VP can-didate.”
  Minutes before, a man and a woman 
wearing Unite Party T-shirts were seen pulling stacks of Alligators from the two orange racks that sit outside of the hall.
  Eyewitnesses and a source afﬁ  liated 
with the Unite Party told the Alliga-
tor that Jason Tiemeier, Student Senate 
president pro tempo-
re and campaign vol-unteer, was the man 
spotted discarding 
the newspapers.
  Health science and 
pre-physical therapy 
sophomore Taylor 
Chambers said he 
was standing near the two orange racks at about 9 a.m. when he saw Tiemeier and a woman discarding Alligators.
  Chambers, 20, said when the pair 
noticed him watching, they stopped. Journalism junior and Alligator free-lance reporter Elizabeth Hamilton, 19, approached Tiemeier and asked him what he was doing.
  He told her he was going to pass out 
the newspapers.
  Chambers witnessed the exchange  Papers thrown away by Unite campaigners
� THE WIND PUSHED 
SMOKE 30 MILES.
  TYLER JETT
 Alligator Staff Writer
  Strong winds pushed smoke 
about 30 miles south from a ﬁ  eld 
in Starke to Gainesville on Mon-day afternoon.
  The smoke originated from a 
controlled burn at Camp Bland-ing, a training area for the Flor-ida Army National Guard. A burn boss in the area received a 
permit to set ﬁ  re to about 1,200 
acres Monday morning, said 
Ludie Bond, the Florida Forest Service wildﬁ  re mitigation spe-cialist.
  Bond said controlled burns at 
Camp Blanding are common, but this time it affected Gainesville because winds were blowing south for most of the day. Winds were blowing hardest about 4 p.m., topping out at 14 mph, ac-cording to AccuWeather.
  Smoke ﬂ  oated through cam-
pus Monday afternoon, and the sky was coated in a gray haze.
  “Because it’s such a large 
acreage that they’re trying to burn, and because the wind is so strong, you’re feeling the ef-fects,” Bond said.
  A dispatcher from the Alach-
ua County Combined Commu-nications Center said residents from all parts of Gainesville called her Monday asking if there was a ﬁ  re.
  According to AccuWeather, 
winds are not projected to ex-ceed 6 mph Tuesday .  Controlled 
burn in 
Starke 
source of 
city-wide 
smokeSTUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
  SAMANTHA SHAVELL
 Alligator Writer
  Student Government elections for Stu-
dent Senate and executive positions start 
today.
  Students can vote at any of the 11 polling 
locations from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
  The locations include the Broward Hall 
basement, Jennings ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor study room, 
Springs Area Ofﬁ  ce Room 202, Murphree 
Area Commons, Reitz Union third ﬂ  oor computer lab, McCarty Hall B computer lab B, Southwest Recreation Center, Levin Col-lege of Law student lounge, CSE computer 
lab, Marston Library and the Health Science 
Center Library Collaboration Center.
  However, on Wednesday the CSE lab 
will close at 4:30 p.m. and the health center 
location will not open until 9 a.m.
  The CSE computer lab will close early 
because a test is scheduled in the room at 5 p.m., according to the online CSE test area 
calendar.
  The health center location will open at 9 
a.m. because a meeting will be taking place 
in the center until 8:50 a.m., said Supervisor 
of Elections Toni Megna.
  She said the Election Commission ap-
proved these locations, which were also the fall locations.
  According to SG election codes, all poll-
ing locations must remain open from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
  “I didn’t think it was necessary to lose 
an entire polling location on 20 minutes,” Megna said.
  She said it’s better for students to be fa- SG elections begin today; polls close Wednesday
Voting open at 11 campus locationsSEE NEWSPAPERS, PAGE 8
SEE ELECTION, PAGE 8Tiemeier
“I didn’t think it was necessary to 
lose an entire polling location on 20 
minutes.”
Toni Megna
Supervisor of ElectionsNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 105 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Rachel Rowan, Nika Zecevic
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett,   
  David Williams
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerSATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TODAYFORECAST
PARTLY
CLOUDY
68/42THUNDER
STORMS
78/47THUNDER
STORMS
79/64PARTLY
CLOUDY
77/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/49
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Remembering the Concentration 
Camps: Aleksander 
Kulisiewicz and his Concerts 
of Prisoners’ SongsToday, 3 p.m.Friends of Music Room, 
University Auditorium
Attend this talk by Barbara 
Milewski of Swarthmore College about Kulisiewicz, who penned songs and collected the 
songs of other prisoners while 
in the Sachsenhausen concen-
tration camp. Performing to his own guitar accompaniment and dressed in prison garb, 
Kulisiewicz’s concerts of those 
decades represent a unique 
form of musical memory and historical witnessing that is 
virtually unknown to musi-
cologists today. Reception fol-
lows the talk.
Local HIV/AIDS Charity 
Fundraiser
Today, 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Mochi on Archer Road
The Student National Pharmaceutical Association 
will be holding a fundraiser 
for the local charity “Positives 
Empowering Positives,” which provides medication as-sistance to recently diagnosed 
HIV/AIDS patients. By men-
tioning at the register that you 
are supporting the fundraising event with SNPhA, 15 percent of your purchase price will be donated to the support group.
Community Health Summit: 
Health Disparities in North Florida’s Underserved CommunitiesToday, 5:10 p.m.McCarty Hall C, Room 100A panel of speakers will be covering topics including rural and urban health disparities, cultural competence when serving communities and the crucial role that health policy plays when addressing health disparities.
Toastmasters speech contest
Today, 5:45 p.m.
Entomology Building, Room 1031
Camp Mementos from Krystyna 
Żywulska, and the Making of a Satirist-Songwriter in Auschwitz-BirkenauTonight, 7 p.m.
Oak Hammock, 5100 SW 25th 
Blvd at Williston Road
This talk by Barbara Milewski of Swarthmore College is free and open to the public. The au-
thor of “I Survived Auschwitz,” 
one of the first autobiographi-
cal accounts of life and death in Auschwitz-Birkenau, was a songwriter, poet and satirist. 
These works offer insight into 
the daily experiences and cul-
tural activities of prisoners in the most notorious of Hitler’s camps. They also provide a 
rare glimpse into prisoner 
identity and the often surpris-University Commons 5K-9 ad-
mission. More event
details can be found at face-
book.com/uc5k9 .
Authors@UF: Hitler’s Shadow 
— Nazi War Criminals, US 
Intelligence, and the Cold 
War
Wednesday, 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.Smathers Library, Room 1AHistory professor Norman 
Goda will discuss his book 
“Hitler’s Shadow — Nazi War 
Criminals, U.S. Intelligence and the Cold War.” The book investigates how and why nu-
merous Nazi war criminals, 
including high officials of the 
Gestapo, escaped prosecution at the end of WWII. Goda will share his perspective as a writ-
er, historian and researcher. 
Q&A and reception will fol-
low.
Cross Examined: The Evidence 
for Belief
Wednesday to Friday, 7 p.m. 
to 9 p.m.
The Ocora at Pugh HallJoin Dr. Subodh Pandit as he 
presents a free lecture series. 
Pandit, born and raised in India, is a licensed, board cer -
tified physician. His 20-year search for a reason to believe led him through the questions 
of atheism, post-modernism, 
and pluralism unto a unique method of comparing the 
five great world religions. 
For more information visit Facebook.com/pandituf or 
email uf.babyisaac@gmail.
com
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORReCtiOn:
In Monday’s paper, the Al-
ligator incorrectly identified two 
women in a photo taken at the 23rd annual Florida Invitational Step Show as members of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc.ing roles inmates played for one another within the camp system.
Fighting Game T uesdays
Today, 7 p.m. to 10:30 p.m.Rinker Hall, Room 106Have an interest in playing 
fighting games? Come visit 
Rinker Hall whether you are 
new to fighting games or are a pro. The Fighting Game Community plays the most 
current (and sometimes 
older) fighting games on the 
Xbox 360 and PS3 consoles. Games include SSF4: Arcade Edition, Ultimate Marvel 
vs. Capcom 3, Soul Calibur, 
King of Fighters 13 and oth-
ers. Bring your favorite con-troller or fight stick. Join the Gainesville Fighting Game 
Community on Facebook for 
more information on meet-
ings.
Chamber Ensemble of 
the Shanghai Chinese 
Orchestra
Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
Today, 7:30 p.m.
The first large-scale modern orchestra of traditional in-struments in China will per -
form Tuesday. Represented 
by a 20-piece chamber en-
semble, the members of Shanghai Chinese Orchestra perform string- and wind-in-
strumental pieces, Cantonese 
music and plucked-string 
and percussion instrumental ensembles. Student tickets are $12. Visit performin-
garts.ufl.edu for more infor -
mation.
3-Day Call in to Support the 
RTS Bus DriversTurlington Plaza
Today to Thursday 11 a.m.  
to 3 p.m.This week Student’s for a Democratic Society is host-
ing a three-day call in sup-
port of our bus drivers.
Come to see members on Turlington Plaza to learn more about the challenges 
that our bus drivers are cur -
rently facing and how you 
can help as a student.
5K-9 Olympics
Wednesday, 2 p.m.
Reitz Union North Lawn
Compete with your dog 
in the first 5K-9 Olympics.Winners of the longest fetch, 
highest jump, and most time 
standing on hind legs will 
be rewarded with awesome 
prizes including cruises, gym memberships and waived  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
The cold weather wasn’t enough to 
stop heated comments at Monday night’s 
Student Government debate.
About 300 people showed up at the 
Reitz Union Amphitheater for the debate hosted by the Freshman Leadership Coun-cil and the Hispanic Student Association.
Any candidate from each party could 
respond to the questions, but the presiden-tial candidates, Alex Cornillie for the Stu-dents Party and Tj Villamil for the Unite 
Party, spoke the most.
Discussion topics included student in-
volvement in the Florida Board of Gov-
ernors, SG funding and perks for SG of-
ficials.
The parties had conflicting views about 
legislation that would decide whether the 
governor could appoint the student mem-ber of the Board of Governors.
“We think it takes power away from 
students,” Cornillie said.
Villamil said the legislation is pro-UF 
and would benefit larger universities.  
“It may take away democracy, but it 
takes out the politics,” Villamil said.
Each party platform promotes expand-
ing services to students, but Villamil said the Unite Party’s platform points will not bring extra fees to students.
Students Party treasurer candidate 
Carly Wilson said student fees have risen 5 percent each year since she has been at 
the university.
The debate also discussed the perks 
that SG officials have, including parking 
passes and meal cards.
Wilson said her party’s executives 
won’t accept perks.
“I take my lunch to school every day,” 
Wilson said. “That will not change if I get elected.”
Unite Party vice presidential candidate 
Juan Rodriguez said these items are not perks but compensation for officials. 
He said this compensation comes from 
outside revenue that is no cost to stu-dents. 
He said the meal cards are for business 
purposes only, and the parking passes are to ensure that officials get to meetings on time to represent the Student Body.
The two parties agreed on the issue to 
stop the hiked tuition costs of STEM class-es.ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
Jason Howey flipped grilled 
cheeses in his trailer with the flick of 
his wrist. When he’s at the grill, the career grilled cheese-maker gets into a gooey groove.
Every weekend, Howey parks 
his trailer — which doubles as a fully equipped kitchen attached to his pick-up truck -— on a blacktop parking lot at the corner of North-west 55th Street and Newberry Road.He swings open the front door 
and window of the trailer and serves his sandwiches to jean- and T-shirt-clad Gainesville folk while cars whiz past.
On Thursday , it will be time for 
Howey , 36, and his business partner 
and girlfriend Cara Miller, 31, to set 
up shop at a music festival in North Florida. The two will park their wag-on on a dirt path in the middle of the woods and serve sandwiches to teenagers running around in butter -
fly wings and men humming Grate-ful Dead songs in tie-dyed garb.This is the life of the Grilled 
Cheese Wagon. When music festival season picks up, the wagon migrates from the cement parking lot to plac-es like Spirit of the Suwanee Music Park, a campground an hour’s drive north of Gainesville.
“Good vibes and good food is 
what we live by , whether we are here in Gainesville or at a festival,” Howey said.
It was the light-hearted mood 
that routinely brought Gainesville resident Dwynette Smith back to the wagon, despite her lactose intoler -ance.
“It’s more than worth it,” the 34-
year-old said. “These grilled cheeses are delicious, and he is such a nice guy . We’re always sad to see the wagon go.”
There’s nothing special about 
his grilled cheese, Howey said. It’s a sandwich made with white or wheat bread and American, Pro-volone or Swiss cheese, and it costs $3. Customers can add various veg-etables, bacon, tempeh and chicken — all made in the county — to their sandwiches. The more you add, the more you pay.
“We’re not doing rocket science 
here,” Howey said. “We’re not using fancy artisan bread or fancy cheeses. We just do it perfectly toasted and lightly steamed to make sure it’s cooked through the middle.”
Howey has been making grilled 
cheese sandwiches for almost a de-cade.
In 2004, he took over making 
sandwiches at Tim and Terry’s, a for -
mer bar in Gainesville that featured folk and bluegrass music. Most of the time, customers demanded his grilled cheese.
It was at the bar that Howey , 
who usually wears a folk band T-shirt and hides his short hair under 
a rugged baseball cap, cultivated his 
carefree mentality.
Howey tended the bar and made 
grilled cheeses at Tim and Terry’s until 2009, just before it closed.
When a monthly one-night mu-
sic festival in Alachua called Farm to Family decided to expand to two nights in April 2008, Howey was asked to use his grilled cheese-making expertise from the bar to help feed the crowd. He and Miller 
bought a pop-up camper and an 
electric griddle and called them-selves a snack hut. They cooked grilled cheeses through the night.  
The hut became a hit.One year later, after cooking at 
Farm to Family every month, the two saw an ad for a kitchen trailer on Craigslist and bought it. They 
named it the Grilled Cheese Wag-
on.
Miller, an avid doodler, drew a 
picture of a grilled cheese sandwich in an old, red Radio Flyer wagon on the back of an order slip three years ago.
The wagon became known as 
the business’s symbol at small festi-
vals that attracted a couple hundred 
people. Eventually , they applied to serve food at larger festivals in Flor -
ida where thousands gather, and they were accepted.
Now, they have become “festival 
foodies,” people who serve at music festivals in Florida once or twice al-most every month.
“What we are now seemed kind 
of far-fetched at the time,” Miller said. “We didn’t expect to get this big.”
On off-weekends, Howey and 
Miller will set up the wagon in the parking lot to serve lunch and din-ner to in-town regulars.
Then, once again, it’s off to the 
festival scene.
Selling food at these events can 
get competitive. People are trying to sell as much of their food as they can, Howey said. It is a business, after all, but they try not to step on anyone’s toes.
The wagon should be back in the 
parking lot during the first weekend in March.
“We’ll always come back,” 
Howey said. “Gainesville’s home, 
and we love our family here as much 
we love our festival family.”4, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Jason Howey, 36, of Williston, works at the Grilled Cheese Wagon food truck. He’ll soon be on the road 
serving at Florida music festivals. 
locAl
Grilled Cheese Wagon a gooey treat for festival circuit, locals
Haley Stracher / Alligator Staff
Students Party executive candidates Carly Wilson, Jesse Schmitt and Alex Cornillie, 
top, and Unite Party executive candidates Tj Villamil, Sabine Justilien and Juan Ro-driguez, bottom, participate in the Student Government debate in the Reitz Union Amphitheater on Monday night.
SG candidates debate funding, representation and perks
“It may take away democracy, but 
it takes out the politics.”
Tj Villamil
Unite Party presidential candidate TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Writer
The director of the Peace 
Corps will visit UF today to 
finalize a new master’s pro-gram and to discuss global citizenship.
Aaron Williams is sched-
uled to speak at 6 p.m. at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service in Pugh Hall. The event is free and open to the public.
Before his speech, Wil-
liams will sign an agree-ment between UF and 
the Peace Corps that will 
start the university’s new Master’s International pro-gram. It will allow graduate students to work on their master’s degrees while vol-unteering overseas with the Peace Corps.
More than 80 schools in 
the U.S. offer the program so far, according to the Peace Corps website.
UF’s partnership will be 
through the College of Ag-ricultural and Life Sciences because the Peace Corps especially needs volunteers with agricultural and en-vironmental skills, said UF Peace Corps recruiter Amy Panikowski.
The process starts when 
a student is admitted to graduate school and then accepted into the Peace Corps. The student will take classes for about three se-mesters before volunteering for 27 months, Panikowski said.
Once back in the U.S., 
she said, the student will have about a semester of work, which could include a case study or professional paper, before graduating.
Panikowski said she 
hopes the program launch this fall.Director of Peace 
Corps to discuss new grad programKATHERINE HAHN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF cricket player is one of five 
2011 College Cricket Players of the 
Year.
American College Cricket chose 
Gator Cricket Club vice captain Ricky Nayar for the award based on his per -
formance on and off the field, accord-ing to the organization’s website.
Nayar, 21, said he has been playing 
cricket since he was a child growing up in New Delhi. His main position on the UF club team is batter, but he also plays bowler and wicketkeeper, he said.
“I’m from India and it’s the popu-
lar sport — it’s like football or basket-
ball or baseball over here,” he said.
In November, 
Gator Cricket Club 
beat rival Auburn 
University to win 
the American Col-
lege Cricket South 
East Champion-
ship, Nayar said. 
Last season, the 
team faced Auburn in the finals and lost.
Also last season, Nayar was nomi-nated for UF’s Male Athlete of the 
Year.
He said he was surprised by both 
nominations.
“I didn’t expect too much repre-
sentation because cricket is not that popular in America,” he said.  
The UF cricket team will go up 
against 30 or 40 other teams at the 
American College Cricket Spring Break Championship from March 14 
to 18 in Fort Lauderdale.
Nayar said he has always wanted 
to play cricket professionally. Right 
now, though, he’s focusing on finish-ing his education.UF cricket player named one of nation’s best
� AN EMAIL ERROR OCCURRED.
JULIA GLUM
Alligator Writer
All UF students will be allowed into tonight’s men’s bas-
ketball game due to a technical difficulty.
The Gators Student Ticket Office accidentally sent an 
email Monday that thanked recipients for registering for the 
game, which is versus Auburn University at 7 p.m. in the 
O’Connell Center.
But not everyone who received the email registered for 
tickets.
The email was sent to more students than anticipated, 
University Athletic Association Assistant Athletics Director Mark Gajda wrote in an email. The email went out to those 
who were in the men’s basketball student ticket database.
A correction email was sent out at about 9 p.m.To avoid confusion, the office will change its entry policy 
for this game. Students who want to attend tonight’s game do not have to be registered, according to the email.
To enter, a student must be enrolled for at least one UF 
credit hour and bring his or her Gator 1 Card to Gate 3 when gates open at 5 p.m.
The error happened in the editing process, which the of-
fice is reworking to ensure this type of mistake doesn’t hap-pen again, according to an email from Travis Leyndyke, the office’s assistant director.
“We hope to see a full student section and are prepared 
to expand the student section in the third level to avoid 
overcrowding,” Leyndyke wrote.Glitch opens basketball game to all students Nayar
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR130 TOTAL VOTES29% YES
71% NOFriday’s question: Would you use inhal-
able caffeine?Today’s question: Are you going to vote today?  Yesterday, at Weimer Hall, home of the College of Jour-
nalism and Communications, 268 copies of the Alliga-
tor were taken from bins and thrown away.
  From eyewitness accounts and ofﬁ  cial Unite sources, we 
have reason to believe that Jason Tiemeier, the Senate presi-dent pro tempore and campaign volunteer for the Unite Par-
ty, was responsible for these actions.
  Witnesses have also indicated that he did not act alone.
  Tiemeier and all those involved should be ashamed of 
themselves for their reliance on dirty and classless political 
tactics.
  This goes beyond the SG election and shows the true char-
acter of these members of the Unite Party. 
  More than 50 people put in countless hours every day 
putting together this paper for you, the Student Body. We also have career staff members whose paychecks rely on ad-vertising revenue from businesses that expect their ads to be seen each day.
  To take a stack of papers and trash them for no reason 
other than petty political games is beyond irresponsible.
  These actions are an affront to our work, the free ﬂ  ow of 
information on campus, the businesses that support us and 
the First Amendment.
Ignorance is not an excuse at this point.    We expect a written apology from Unite and its campaign 
managers for not closely following actors within its cam-
paign. Tiemeier should be removed from his ofﬁ  ce immedi-
ately.  
  This should not be happening at any level of government, 
and especially not on a college campus where unrestricted 
discussion and open-mindedness are encouraged. We should all treat each other with respect despite our disagreements.
  The Alligator has been completely fair in its news cover-
age of the election, and it does not deserve these sort of at-tacks from either side.
  We have also been diligent in publishing letters from sup-
porters of both parties.
  Obviously, the endorsement by head football coach Will 
Muschamp on Monday’s front page seemed to give the Unite 
Party a lot of political reasons to stop students from reading 
the Alligator, but we do not want to make broad, sweeping assumptions about the entire party.
  This could have been one or two individuals acting 
alone.
  We do, however, want to ask that anyone involved in this 
step forward, be an adult and admit that this move was com-pletely stupid.
  We’re pissed off, but we’ll get over it.
  Above all else, we feel the Student Body deserves an apol-
ogy from these individuals who betrayed its trust and tried 
to manipulate this election.
  Let us hope this is the end of dirty campaign tactics for 
this election.  Trashy Politics
Unite members’    
actions uncalled for
  The anticipation of college: the all-nighters, the par-
ties, the hard-earned diploma — all just unaffordable dreams to children of undocumented parents.
  SB 106 died in the Florida Senate Judiciary Committee 
last week, a bill that would have allowed children of illegal parents to qualify for in-state tuition. This was the second attempt at making education more of a reality than a uto-pian dream — HB 81, similar in intent, failed in the same Republican-dominated Senate a month earlier.
  The 4-3 vote speaks volumes about the Florida Legisla-
ture. Sen. Gary Siplin’s proposal had all the right ingredients: The student must attend a Florida high school for three years, 
graduate, register at a Florida college or university and, most 
signiﬁ  cantly , ﬁ  le an afﬁ  davit with the university promising to seek residency or citizenship.
  That last requirement makes all the difference. Why it 
wasn’t enough for the judiciary committee, we will never know. The heated argument about granting in-state tuition to the children of undocumented parents is formed upon the 
hot topic of illegal immigration.
  Not that I condone breaking the law — illegal immigra-
tion is, after all, illegal, and should be enforced — but many 
of these children came at the will of their parents. Among those barred from qualifying for in-state tuition are children born in the U.S. (by deﬁ  nition, American citizens) who list themselves as ﬁ  nancially dependent on their undocumented parents.
  Let’s give them the opportunity to right their parents’ 
wrongs. Give them equal tuition, and they’ll become produc-
tive citizens.
  The debate against granting in-state tuition for these chil-
dren boils down, like almost everything else, to money . The 
argument goes as follows: If their parents didn’t pay taxes, why should they pay the same rate as lifetime Florida resi-dents? Or rather, why didn’t their parents become citizens?
  I don’t have the answer for the second question, other than 
the process of immigration desperately needs to be amend-
ed, but to answer the ﬁ  rst, this bill offers the opportunity to break the cycle. These students at-
tend college and become citizens. Soon enough they’ll be paying tax-es to the state, perhaps funding a 
student in a similar circumstance. 
It’s a matter of paying it forward and progressing onward.
  UF tuition for a Florida resident 
is a bargain — $5,700 a year for an undergrad. Just looking at fees and 
ignoring the pile-up of housing, books and food, out-of-state tuition amounts to an astounding and unnecessary $27,936.
  And that’s just for one year.  Having these students “pay their way” through inﬂ  ated 
out-of-state tuition is pocket robbery. The bill will morph into student loans, which will compound into more debt over time.
  If they’re granted in-state tuition, students can move up 
the economic ladder and contribute to Florida’s economy. 
Keeping these children from an affordable education doesn’t 
teach them or their parents a thing about becoming a legal citizen. These children can’t improve themselves without ed-ucation, something taken for granted in our current system.
  Let’s not forget that these students are products of the 
Florida public school system. They passed the FCAT and earned their high school diplomas. If they go through the ef-fort of applying to college and are accepted, why not give them a fair shot at paying for it?
  The Florida Legislature needs to approve a bill for these 
students soon. If not, we’re putting a ﬁ  nancial burden on thousands of students who have dreams of becoming doc-tors, lawyers, engineers or teachers.
  To stunt those dreams because of their parents’ decisions 
or for ﬁ  nancial reasons gives a whole new meaning to the word unfair.
  Colleen Wright is a journalism freshman at UF . Her column 
appears on T uesdays.  Immigrants’ children deserve in-state tuition
Colleen Wright
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
With the onslaught of cellphone tapping, domestically 
flying drones and Internet browsers that remember every website we’ve ever visited, it’s fair to say that 
our liberties are being undermined. And though this claim has been heralded since the dawn of civilization, we are cur -
rently in a position to effectively confront the transgressions of lawmakers.
Civil drone surveillance is unfortunately not a new matter 
(President Obama’s approval of the National Defense Autho-rization Act subsequently approved the limited use of drones in civil skies), but it has received some worrisome support from a recent add-on aimed at the Federal Aviation Admin-istration.
Last Tuesday, Obama signed a law that allows drones to be 
flown in U.S. skies for commercial, as well as governmental, ventures.
Within 90 days, the FAA must allow police to fly drones do-
mestically, so long as these drones meet certain standards, are reasonably sized (less than 5 pounds) and don’t soar over 400 feet. Within the next few years, the FAA must also allow the use of private and commercial drones within U.S. airspace.
This law may seem benign, even beneficial, at first glance. 
But quicker, cheaper and more accurate police responses and 
the emergence of a new commercial market are accompanied 
by freedoms for drone “pilots” that impede on freedoms of those “on the ground.”
The Fourth Amendment pro-
tects against unreasonable, unwar -
ranted searches and seizures and the violation of a citizen’s security 
“in their persons, houses, papers 
and effects.”
With the passage of this new 
law, the Fourth Amendment must be reinterpreted (or rewritten).
In the past, police were only issued search warrants upon 
probable cause — a cause that had to be detailed, justified and court-ordered. They also had to issue the warrant in person, at the door.
Now, with a drone, a lens and a live video feed, police forc-
es have the capacity to search and track individuals without the formal consent of a magistrate, judge or court.
And individuals can perform similar actions for commer -
cial profit, selling aerial photos of your house, backyard, tran-sit — you name it.
The boundaries for what constitutes privacy are quickly 
being redrawn.
I don’t wholly reject this new law. Drones provide many 
advantages, from more precise tracking of at-large criminals to saving countless dollars that would have otherwise been spent on manned helicopters with similar functions. In the commercial sector, drones can be used in real estate, wildlife maintenance and agricultural management. The unmanned aerial perspective offers benefits that could have only been attained at a more significant financial and time cost.
But to offer a carte blanche is asking for and legitimizing 
increased violation of personal liberty than it is benefiting so-cial and economic security.
This law needs to be written in a way that cannot be misin-
terpreted by those pilots who stand to gain from the violation of personal liberties. It must detail the limits of where these drones can go, what they can record, to what extent and with whose consent.
The basic liberties, and those secured by the Bill of Rights, 
must be prioritized over commercial, corporate and govern-mental interests.
It is up to us as citizens to voice our opposition to laws that 
undermine these liberties, just as we voiced opposition to the Stop Online Piracy Act when faced with the more immediate inconvenience of the Internet blackout. With the insight that such laws are being pushed and passed through Congress and the White House, we must actively reject the bystander effect and assume accountability for founding our future.
Dyllan Furness is a philosophy and English junior at UF. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.
Personal liberties take priority over commercial, government interestsColumn
Last year, it was my privilege 
to serve as your Student Body president. I was proud 
to advocate for you and stand up for your interests.
Like most of you, I am deeply 
concerned with the issues facing 
students, such as increasing tu-
ition rates and employment pros-pects after graduation.
I see Student Government as 
the mechanism by which the voice 
of the Student Body is heard, and 
the person leading it must have the experience to fight effectively for you. 
It is with this in mind that I 
proudly endorse Tj Villamil for Student Body president.
Villamil and I most recently 
served alongside each other as 
president and treasurer, but our 
cooperation extends long before that.
We served as student senators 
together from Fall 2009 to Spring 2011, including one year in which we served as the Senate’s two fi-nance chairs. 
As budget and appropriation 
chairman, Villamil proved his dedication to every student orga-nization and accumulated an un-matched knowledge of the needs 
of every niche of the Student 
Body.
His hard work paid off in the 
first unanimously passed Student Government budget in years. 
It was this experience that 
made it an easy choice to select him as my running mate for Stu-dent Body treasurer, a job in which 
he has excelled.
He has gone far beyond his job 
description, most notably when he w o r k e d 
tirelessly with me 
to stop 
block tu-
ition.
Villamil’s knowledge of this 
university and our Student Body was crucial in helping me make the case to the administration and the Board of Trustees on why block tuition would be a harmful 
policy.
More recently, he has spear -
headed the efforts to renew our 
student union without any addi-
tional cost to students. 
He recognizes that the stu-
dent union should be a place for 
student activities and services, not a university facility, and that 
student input is critical in its plan-
ning.
Villamil’s efforts with the Re-
itz Union put him in front of the 
Board of Trustees, so he is a famil-
iar face to those who will be decid-ing your tuition rates and all poli-cies at the university.
The relationships he has formed 
with administrators, trustees and students, and the knowledge he has gained throughout his years of service to our Student Body 
have uniquely prepared Villamil 
to meet the challenges we will face this year. 
I urge all students to vote for 
the experienced leader who has 
already obtained so many results 
for us. 
Tj Villamil for Student Body 
president.
Ben Meyers is a food and resourc-
es economics senior and the former Student Body president of UF.Former Student Body 
president endorses UniteGuest column
Ben Meyers
Speaking OutAs the current student representative on 
the Florida Board of Governors, I feel 
compelled to set the record straight re-
garding student representation on the board.
Last week, students at UF were purposefully 
confused by a biased letter to the editor written 
by Student Body President Anthony Reynolds to cover up his support of a bill that takes power 
away from Florida students.
First, let me frame this discussion by contex-
tualizing the importance of student representa-tion on the board.
The student representative is one of two rep-
resentative positions on the board and repre-sents more than 320,000 students in the state of 
Florida. The second is the faculty representative, who is elected by the Advisory Council of Fac-
ulty Senates.
Just as the faculty representative advocates 
for faculty-related issues such as tenure, the stu-dent representative represents us in matters such 
as tuition rates, the implementation of new or in-creased fees and block tuition.
The question at hand now is this: Should we 
eliminate the democratic process of election cur -
rently in place and allow Gov. Rick Scott to ap-
point our sole voice on a board that determines 
our tuition?
President Reynolds and the Unite Party say 
yes — give it to the governor.
What leads your esteemed Student Body pres-
ident and your dominating political party to be-
lieve that Gov. Scott is a better judge of a student 
leader than student leaders themselves?
I wish I knew, but unfortunately, what I have 
seen in my role on the board and in politics this past year is that logic and common sense are rarely what prevail.
Tj Villamil’s statements in comments on the 
Alligator’s website, “FSA is controlled by small-er schools because of their number (9 v. 4)” and 
“The president of New College ... should never 
be representing us on the BoG,” are great exam-ples of an argument that lacks common sense.
First of all, 9 + 4 = 13. There are only 11 state 
universities in Florida.
Secondly, I find it ridiculous that he believes a 
student at New College, Florida’s honors college, is less worthy than a student at UF to represent students on the Board of Governors. I would like 
to point out that common sense would say that 
since my academic focus is in higher education policy and I have been involved in the process 
for two years, I would be the perfect candidate to represent students in this 
capacity.
Student representation 
should not be about what school you are from but 
about your ability to understand the diverse is-sues facing students and advocate on their be-half.
The FSA is not “controlled by smaller schools.” 
When students at UF were faced with the threat of block tuition, the FSA (small schools included) 
banded together to block the proposal and advo-
cate for students at UF. The chairman at the time was the Student Body president from Florida 
A&M University.
As students, we are the most underrepresent-
ed interest in Tallahassee, and for us to segregate ourselves based on enrollment numbers does not 
strike me as sensible.
As someone who spends a great deal of time 
at every one of our state’s universities, I can tell you that as students, we are not so different.
We all want to see increased appropriations 
for higher education, we all want to see lower tu-ition and we all want to see Bright Futures saved. But by dividing ourselves, we inhibit our ability 
to fight for what is important to us.
Two weeks ago, student leaders from every 
university in the state of Florida argued in front of the Senate Higher Education committee about 
the Board of Governors bill. Afterward, Sen. Steve Oelrich, who is the chairman of the com-
mittee, said he was thoroughly confused by the 
dueling student opinions.
How can we effect any change in the legisla-
tive process if we confuse the Florida Senate by arguing about student government personal-ity conflicts? No wonder Sen. Oelrich was con-
fused.
Asking the governor to select our voice on the 
board is not common sense.
Dividing ourselves as students based on the 
enrollment numbers at our university is not com-
mon sense.
Tampering with  the constitution of the state 
of Florida at the cost of $70,000 to Florida’s tax-payers — solely to appease the ego of two Stu-
dent Body presidents — is not common sense.
To the students at UF, I suggest that your vote 
in the UF SG elections reflects common sense.
Alex Cornillie has shown that common sense.
Michael Long is the chairman of the Florida Stu-
dent Association and Student Body president of New 
College of Florida.FSA chair endorses Students PartyGuest column
Michael Long
Speaking Out
Dyllan Furness
opinions@alligator.orgCLARE LENNON
Alligator Staff Writer
A man dressed in a Unite Par -
ty shirt and a Darth Vader mask 
joined Student Government party campaigners twice on Turlington 
Plaza on Monday.
He held up a poster that said 
“Obey the Empire” on one side and 
“Jesse Schmitt, I am your father” on the other. Neither party claimed 
him as a member.
Jesse Schmitt is the Student Body 
vice president candidate for the 
Students Party. SG elections for the Student Senate and the executive 
offices begin today and are sched-
uled to end Wednesday night.
Unite Party spokeswoman 
Christina Bonarrigo said she was 
told he showed up at about 10 a.m. 
and then again around noon. When 
campaigners for the Unite Party and 
the Students Party told the man he had to stop, he ran off, she said.
None of the Unite Party mem-
bers knew anything about the man, 
Bonarrigo said.
Brock Hankins, campaign man-
ager for the Unite Party, said he 
doubted the man is affiliated with 
either party.
Alex Cornillie, the Student 
Body president candidate for the 
Students Party, said he specifically 
instructed party members to run a positive campaign.
“We didn’t even print contrast 
fliers,” he said.
He also said he doesn’t think the 
person was affiliated with either political party, and he said the man definitely wasn’t with the Students Party.
Bonarrigo pointed out that the 
Vader figure appeared during classes, not between them, when students flood Turlington Plaza.
“I honestly believe this was 
someone trying to play a prank,” she said.8, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012
Yevgen Sautin / Alligator
A man dressed in a Unite Party shirt and a Darth Vader mask holds up a poster that reads “Obey the Empire” on Turlington Plaza on Monday.
Vader vigilante unaffiliated, SG says
CHRIS ALCANTARA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gainesville Police De-
partment wants students to be 
prepared when the walking dead strike.
The GPD Crime Prevention 
Unit aired the first episode of its Zombie Campaign series Saturday on Police Beat, a GPD television show.
The video features Mikel 
Mazlaghani, a GPD officer, as he arrests zombies for stealing a bicycle, snatching a stereo out of a home and lifting a stu-
dent’s backpack from her car.
The campaign was de-
signed to inform college 
students about the threat of burglary if cars, homes and bicycles are left unlocked, but with a pop culture twist, said GPD Lt. Art Adkins.
Adkins said 50 percent 
of vehicle burglaries that oc-curred in the first week of February in Gainesville hap-pened because cars were left unlocked.
To raise awareness of bur -
glary in the city, Adkins said Mazlaghani came up with the idea of sending out a crime 
prevention message through 
the use of a Hollywood icon: the zombie.
Ernest Graham, a GPD 
crime prevention officer, said the Zombie Campaign is a 
way to reach the student pop-ulation.
“You take something seri-
ous, like property crime, and 
put a fun twist on it, like zom-
bies, and that makes it enter -
taining,” he said.
Property crimes are, a ma-
jority of the time, a crime of 
opportunity, she added.
Chas Reynolds, a 19-year-
old chemical engineering freshman, was a victim of burglary in October when someone broke into his car and stole his iPod, a friend’s iPhone, four credit cards and 
$100 in cash.
Reynolds said he thinks the 
Zombie Campaign will help 
prevent burglaries throughout the city.
However, Brian Ware, a 20-
year-old information systems and operations management sophomore, does not see the new campaign in the same light as the department.
“I think the use of zombies 
is a little childish,” he said. “Theft is a serious crime and should be treated as such, es-pecially in raising awareness.”GPD uses zombies  
to warn against theft
Unite members deny any involvement
and said Tiemeier and the woman walked off with a stack of 
Alligators.
Tiemeier told the Alligator he was not involved, saying he 
was at home Monday morning.
“I was sleeping,” he said.Brock Hankins, campaign manager for the Unite Party, 
echoed Tiemeier.
“It was not Jason Tiemeier, and it was not anyone affiliated 
with the Unite Party,” he said.
It is not clear whether Tiemeier and the woman were in-
structed by party leadership or if they were acting alone.
Students Party President Ford Dwyer said he was not sur -
prised by the morning’s events.
“People have told me that in previous elections, it has been 
a tactic to censor certain speech in the Alligator that [the Unite Party] didn’t want students to know about,” he said.
Capt. Jeff Holcomb of the UF Police Department said this ac-tivity might be considered theft because even though the news-papers are free, they are not intended for mass destruction. The incident would definitely be referred to Student Conduct, he said. In his 24 years of service, he said, he has never heard of this happening.
Chris Loschiavo, assistant dean of students and director 
of student conduct and conflict resolution, said the legality of trashing hundreds of copies of a free newspaper is unclear.
“It’s certainly not a black-and-white issue,” he said. “There’s 
a lot of shades of gray.”
Alligator staff writers Joey Flechas, Elizabeth Hamilton, Erin 
Jester, Clare Lennon, Emily Morrow, Jon Silman and Matt Watts contributed to this report.new SpAperS , from page 1
Problems with polls could extend hours
miliar with the locations.
Sen. Katie Waldman lead a com-
mittee that revised the election codes. 
She said she would have to further 
examine whether the shortened times violate the codes.
Due to problems with the fall elec-tions, the new codes dictated that the 
Supervisor of Elections come up with 
a contingency plan in case last-minute problems occur.
In Megna’s plan, if six or more of 
the polling locations are down for one to six hours, the polls could stay open up to three additional hours.  
Megna declined to comment on whether the building administration 
was aware that polls might have to 
stay open until 11:30 p.m.
Vernon Kisling, the chairman of 
Marston Science Library, said he 
wasn’t aware that polls might be 
open longer than 8:30 p.m. He said it doesn’t matter, though, because the library will be open anyway.election , from page 1� OWNER SAYS EMUS DO NOT MAKE 
GREAT PETS.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
SOUTH HERO, Vt. — An elusive emu on the 
lam in Vermont has been amusing residents in 
communities on Lake Champlain.
The 150-pound flightless bird looks like a 
small ostrich. It has been spotted wandering here and there in Grand Isle and South Hero since it escaped from a local farm five weeks ago.
It was spotted again Friday outside a South 
Hero elementary school, where it walked by a window of the principal’s office. School worker Steve Berard tried to lasso it with an extension cord, but it broke free.
The emu’s owner told WCAX-TV he bought 
three emus for his grandchildren, but they don’t make great pets.
He’s taken out an ad in a local newspaper 
saying, “Free emu if you can capture it.”Emu escapes from 
Vt. farm, at large 
for five weeks“You take something 
serious, like property 
crime, and put a fun 
twist on it, like zombies, 
and that makes it enter -
taining.”
Ernest Graham
GPD crime prevention officeron c AMpUS
“It was not Jason Tiemeier, and it was not any -
one affiliated with the Unite Party.”
Brock Hankins
campaign manager for the Unite Party TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
JESSE MIXSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
1098-T. 1099-MISC. 1040-X. W-2.
The language of tax returns can be complicated, 
but knowing what to look for can save time and mon-ey this tax season.
Students need to know their dependency status be-
fore they can do anything else, said Vanessa Chaney, a senior tax adviser and tax expert in small business at H&R Block.
Students can’t file taxes independently if their par -
ents claim them on their tax return. Parents may claim a student if they pay more than half of his or her school 
fees until the student is 24 years old, Chaney said.
After that, students should see what credits can be 
applied to their return. Tax credits reduce how much is paid in taxes and increase refunds. Chaney said stu-
dents often overlook them.
“People try to do their returns online, and the thing 
is, it makes it convenient, but doing a tax return on-line, they can’t always know the benefits they’re en-titled to,” she said.
The American Opportunity Tax Credit is a credit 
for students in their first four years of post-secondary education. It covers costs such as tuition and course 
materials and is worth up to $2,500, she said.
Students can receive the refund even without hav-
ing a job, Chaney said.
To get this credit, students must file a 1098-T form, found online at irs.gov. The forms are available to UF students in their myUFL account, she said.
If you’ve already filed but forgot something, you 
can use a 1040-X form to update the information, she said.
Teretha McLean, a tax specialist and office manag-
er with H&R Block, said another common problem for students is how their income is reported.
Regular employees receive W-2 forms, but stu-
dents who the IRS considers self-employed receive a 1099-MISC form with box 7 filled out, she said.
Those students don’t have taxes taken out of each 
paycheck during the year. Instead, they pay taxes on their net income after weighing it against job-related 
expenses at the end of the year, Chaney said.
“A lot of times they get themselves in this type of 
job thinking they’re making more money, not know-ing at the end of the year they’re going to owe the IRS the taxes, the money they haven’t been paying in taxes 
all year,” Chaney said.
Returns must be filed by April 17, but people may 
request an extension to Oct. 17.Tips for students filling out tax forms
� THE SITE WAS      
FOUNDED BY TWO     FLORIDA  ATLANTIC      UNIVERSITY STUDENTS.
BRITTANY BORSANYI
Alligator Contributing Writer
Move over, Facebook. 
There’s another way for stu-
dents to avoid studying, and it’s called College Twist.
The social networking web-
site, designed for college stu-dents, recently came to UF and five other universities. It was founded a year ago by two Florida Atlantic University stu-dents.
On the site, students can 
share photos, create events and join discussions about their uni-
versities.Daniel Levin, director of 
campus management for Col-
lege Twist at UF, said he thinks students can benefit from the site because it could help stu-
dents become more active by 
being better informed.
College Twist co-founder 
Brandon Forschino, 21, said he and Patrick Daleen, 20, chose to bring the site to UF because of its school spirit and large stu-dent body.
It is different from other so-
cial networking sites, like Fa-cebook, because the site isn’t about the individual user.
“We like to tell people we’re 
not a social network,” Forschino said. “It’s not about sharing your life with the rest of the world. It’s all about having a source to connect with other users at your 
school and other schools.”Social network focuses 
on college experience
“People try to do their returns online, 
and the thing is, it makes it convenient, but 
doing a tax return online, they can’t always 
know the benefits they’re entitled to.”
Vanessa Chaney
senior tax adviser at H&R blockTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
Need 4 students for 4 bedroom, 4 bath, fully 
furnished Condo $350 per month per student, 
includes utilities at Univ Terrace West 3800 
SW 20th Ave 352-586-6468. Requires 1 year 
lease starting Aug 15th.   2-23-12-12-1
OPEN HOUSE
From 2-6pm  on   February 23rd
Tour our Newly Remodeled 4/4’s
*Prizes *Free Food *Music
Their going fast! 352.379.9300
4-25-12-43-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Only $1149! Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-28-12-36-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2bed/1bath Sun Key units starting at $550
2bed/1.5bath Sun Harbor Townhouse
starting at $575
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2BR/1BA close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    2-29-12-35-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-2-12-29-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   2-29-12-25-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   2-29-11-27-2LIVE ON UF LAKE
Prestigious Bivens Arm. 5BR house, Pool, & 
Dock. Bike or walk to Shands & UF. Serious 
grad students preferred. $2500/mo. Call 
619-857-9903    2-22-12-20-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. 
Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 
3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #3. Please call 352-
371-3473 leave message.       2-22-12-20-2
Trend’s Student House of the Month!
2710 NW 2nd Ave
302 NW 4th Ave
Amazing 3 bedroom Historic House  
Brand New Kitchen and Hardwood Floors
Close to UF Text “Trend” to 313131 for 
More Details
Trend4Rent.com
2-24-20-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor Townhouses $525
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
1bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $475!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
2-23-12-15-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 11
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced 
large backyard, fireplace. Available NOW.
REDUCED to $850/mo. Prefer students or 
professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183   2-29-
12-15-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street
352-372-1494 x10
www.merrillmanagement.com
2BR2BA  Condo  in Turkey Creek
Carpet, Dishwasher, Laundry Hkups,
Close to Alachua & Gainesville 
11426 NW 67th Terrace  $800/Mo  
2BR 1BA Garage Apt in Duckpond Area
Wood Floors, Laundry, Central H & Air
726 NE 4th Street $800 /Mo
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF, 
Carpet, Central H & Air, Carpet
Laundry., Inclds Wtr and Swg. $800/Mo
Can reserve for Summer or Fall now.
Grad II 1236 SW 4th Avenue
2BR 1BA Apt Robert Obrien Apts
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat Gas Ht
Near Sams Club/Walmart  $500/Mo
2901 NW 14th Street
2BR 1BA House in Oaks of Kanapaha
4845 SW 57th Drive $725/Mo
Carpet, Central H & Air, Laundry hkups
Off Archer Rd. 
Effeciency across from UF Stadium
2 Rooms, no kitchen, just Frig and sink
shared bathroom.  Most people bring in a
 hotplate or microwave $295/Mo 
2-24-12-9-2
ONE Block to UF-Available 8/1/2012-2/2.5 
bath townhouse,w,d,dishwsh, guaranteed parking, wood floors VERY cute-1017 SW 1st Avenue www.forrentgainesville.com or 514-4915. Only 3 units remain!!!    3-14-12-20-2SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com  
2-27-11-40-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
$19.99 to sign and $100 credit
4/4’s starting @ $329
Text “SANTAFE” to 47464 for more!
Now Leasing for FALL!
4-25-12-43-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Lovely 3/3, individual lease @ Campus 
Lodge, females only. Two great roommates. $459/mo, first floor, next to pool, see cam-puslogdeuf.com for rent/amenity details. Email azanotelli121@aol.com   2-28-2-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838
The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4SWM looking for roommate to share 2 story condo. Unfurnished 250 sft bedroom/prvt bath with access to furnished kitchen/living room.Located on Tower Rd 4 blocks S of Newberry RdEmsil: eleeng075@netscape.net   2-28-12-10-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will 
deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must 
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       
4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
We Buy Cell Phones & other Electronics 
(iPads,iPods,Gaming Systems,Laptops.)
Working or Not ! We Unlock & Repair Phones
Techmodo 6450 SW Archer RD
(352)872-5881                 2-29-18-8
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in 
bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!
Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL
352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com
4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
12, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425
2-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-
72-12
I Buy Cars & Trucks
★ Call Anytime ★ 352-443-1100
3-13-12-20-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!
VEHICLES $500 AND UP!
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!
OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!
CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
97 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!
30 DAY WARRANTY!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $6999
02 TOYOTA CAMRY $6999
04 CHEVY ASTRO $6999
352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
04 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $7999
02 HONDA ODYSSEY $7999
01 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999
352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,999
06 SATURN ION $11,999
07 FORD MUSTANG $12,999
352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
We buy unwanted vehicles with or without 
title any condition,make,year or model we 
pay up to $20,000 and offer free towing call 813-516-0847    2-28-20-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  
2-22-12-8-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have 
fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, 
then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-
dren’s summer camp, has positions available 
in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront 
(sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, 
WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, 
H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, 
Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-
ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call 
us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at 
www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors 
ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp 
located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 
11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 
1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. 
www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx
4-25-12-72-14DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.
$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
We have the following
full and part time positions:
●Tech Support Rep
●Software Developer
●Linux Administrator
●Admin Asst
●ACT/SAT Coordinator
●Video Tech
●Aviation Sales
●Accounting Editor
Please complete an online application at 
www.gleim.com/employment.     3-2-12-15-
14
Receptionist needed for professional sup-
portive office environment FT 8-5 M-F 10.00 
per hour Please Email resume to
Corey@mssgainesville.com    2-24-12-7-14
Sales Asst/Customer Svc Rep
Apply in person at
Tomlinson Motor Company, 3580 N Main St$10/hr, part time 15-20 hrs/wk - flexible.     2-23-12-6-14
 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 13
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION FT
ECG Department
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Spec
3603 NW 98th St. Suite A         2-22-5-14   
RECEPTION POSITION
FT
Please apply in person
Institute of Veterinary Spec
3603 NW 98th St Suite A         2-22-5-14
LA FIESTA MEXICAN RESTAURANT
Servers wanted, Experience required. Apply 
in person between 1:30 pm and 6 pm at 7038 
NW 10th place near I-75 and Newberry Rd or 
9513 NW 39th Ave & I-75    3-1-12-10-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love 
for children to staff its summer day camp pro-
gram. Positions in the camp are available in 
our Pre-Kindergarten, Kindergarten, and our 
elementary school age day camps offered at 
Oak Hall. A total of 8 FT and PT counselor 
positions plus 2 FT Head Counselor positions 
are available for the summer. Individuals for 
the day camp should be available to work 
daily from June 11-July 27. Interested ap-
plicants should submit a resume to Maggie 
Martin via e-mail at mmartin@oakhall.org by 
March 16th. Interview information regarding 
group interview on March 17th will be sent 
out upon receipt.   3-16-12-15-14
SANDY’S SAVVY CHIC RESALE BOUTIQUE 
NOW HIRING. Great working environment. PT/FT positions available. Apply in person @ 
2906 NW 13Tth St. 352-372-1226 sandysre -
sale.com   2-27-5-14!!ATTN SMOKERS!! You're needed to par-ticipate in a study conducted by the UF 
Smoking Lab assessing effects of exercise 
on cravings, withdrawal, and/or smoking. 
Compensation provided!! Call 336-406-3706 
or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    3-23-19-
14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-
time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing 
available. Barn Family Program to mitigate 
board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
6-21-11-98-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    2-29-12-33-15
MIT Mathematics Graduate. TUTORING 
available for HIGH SCHOOL and COLLEGE STUDENTS. Taught last semester at UF. 
E-mail/call for REFERENCES and RATES. 
(352) 519-8974 and avila@alum.mit.edu   
2-27-12-10-15★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, 
punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and 
costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   
4-25-72-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Transcendental Meditation Technique: A 
free Introductory Lecture, Sunday, Feb. 26, 
1pm at the Hampton Inn, Arredondo Room, 
101 S.E. 1st Ave, Gainesville, FL 32601. 
Questions: 352-338-1249 or
abyxbe@tm.org, Allan Byxbe.   2-24-12-8-
20
HAPPY HOUR @ CHAMPAGNE SALON
$10 Eyebrow Threading
1109 W. University Ave. 215-2873   2-24-5-
20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.
WHY PAY MORE?
www.sunshinestateinsurance.com
Trusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    
3-23-12-20-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Special February and March Rates- $99 
Advanced Cardiac Life Support and $35 Basic 
Life Support(BLS)(CPR).American Heart 
Association Card issued. Training Gators for 
15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.    
3-20-12-18-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Good week for Florida freshmen
Three Gators took home Southeastern Conference Freshman 
of the Week honors Monday: Taylor Gushue (baseball), Lauren Haeger (softball) and Brad Beal (basketball).Voting open today and Wednesday
Let your voice be heard by voting in Student Government 
elections today or Wednesday. For a list of polling locations, check page 1 or page 3 of today’s paper. Florida point guard Lanita Bartley has proven clutch down the stretch as the Gators attempt to qualify for the NCAA Tournament. See story, page 16. 
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
The bombardment has lasted 60 
minutes, so far.
It began last Tuesday night at Ala-
bama, with a five-minute, 16-0 blitz 
to open the second half of the Gators’ 
win against the Crimson Tide. Florida 
shot 50 percent in the final 20 minutes of that game and hasn’t stopped mak-ing at least half of its attempts since.
 Last Saturday , Arkansas was left 
in a similar scoring daze as the Gators hit 16 straight field goals stretching over two halves and blew out the Ra-zorbacks by 30 points.
Tonight at 7, No. 12 Florida (21-
6, 9-3 Southeastern Conference) will again look to keep its recently potent offense buzzing at home against Au-burn (14-12, 4-8 SEC) — a team that is 0-6 on the road in league play and near the bottom of the standings. 
But even with the Tigers’ recent 
struggles in mind, Kenny Boynton 
won’t be going into the O’Connell 
Center overconfident.
As Florida’s guards showed last 
season in Auburn’s arena,  a poor — even horrific — shooting display is not outside the realm of possibility for Boynton and senior Erving Walker. 
“With Auburn last year, play-
ing them, we had a rough game on 
the road — a rough shooting night,” 
Boynton said. “We couldn’t hit any-thing. … We were just playing that bad. I remember I was missing some easy shots. I think we even missed some layups down there.”
Nine missed layups to be exact, 
including three by Boynton, who finished 3 of 13 from the field. The 
Gators, meanwhile, shot a mystifying 
28.3 percent overall on field goals and 19.2 percent beyond the arc. 
Florida’s 45 points in its five-point 
win against Auburn were the fewest any Billy Donovan-coached team has scored in his 16 seasons at UF.
“I just recall them sitting in a 
zone and just letting us shoot,” said Walker, who, like Boynton, was 2 of 9 from three last Jan. 20. “We couldn’t 
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Kenny Boynton, who is coming off a 25-point performance 
in a 30-point win Saturday, said the Gators aren’t overlooking Auburn.  
Florida trying to stay hot against Auburn
See HoopS, p Age 15
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
For the Gators, every fall 
scrimmage began the same 
way: bases loaded, no outs, 
a bitter memory for every-
one who was wearing or -
ange and blue on June 27, 2011. 
“It makes you focus 
more, just how much small details can actually have a big impact on the game,” junior catcher Mike Zunino 
said. “It’s unfortunate it 
ended up that way, but it taught us a lesson.”
Against South Carolina 
in Game 1 of last season’s College World Series finals, Florida was living that ex-act scenario in the bottom of the ninth. The frame 
closed with Tyler Thomp-
son grounding into a field-er’s choice, Daniel Pigott grounding into a 4-2-3 dou-
ble play and no runs. South 
Carolina won the game in 11 innings en route to an eventual sweep. 
Tonight at 7, the No. 1 
Gators (2-1) will continue to fight an ongoing battle to make that painful Omaha memory fade away as they take on Bethune-Cookman (2-1) at McKethan Stadium. 
It’s an effort that has al-
ready proven to be difficult. Despite taking two out of three from No. 25 Cal State Fullerton over the week-
end, there was an air of 
disappointment after Sun-day’s loss and players were largely focused on issues in manufacturing runs. 
“It’s something we 
didn’t do well this week-end,” Pigott said. “We’ve got to come out and work 
on it and get better. We’ll 
do that.”
Eerie memories of that 
Monday night at TD Ameri-trade Park in Omaha peeked 
through in Sunday’s 8-5 
loss when the Gators went UF reminded of run-
scoring woes ahead of first midweek game
See BASeBALL, p Age 16teLLing you w AttS up
Cody Riggs is just like you.
Sure, he’s a cornerback on one of the nation’s most 
recognizable football teams and has a chance to play 
on TV in the NFL one day . But trust me, you and Riggs have 
plenty in common.
Forget the football stuff, forget that he suits up in orange 
and blue and plays in front of 90,000 on Saturdays. Riggs is more than a football player — he’s a person, a student. He’s someone every regular person on campus can identify with. 
And when he walks through Turlington Plaza, especially 
during weeks like this one, Riggs is just as annoyed by those countless Unite Party minions who live for seemingly one sole purpose: cramming their one-party-over-all-others brochures and stickers down your gullet. 
Don’t believe me? Check out his Twitter feed, @CodyRiggs31. 
There you will find the following 
from last Friday: “I’m voting Students 
Party lol Unite party leave me TF alone it’s way too early to be talking to me going to class #teamjesseschmitt.” 
And: “Like who TF are y’all even 
running against? Lol Don’t approach me again.”
Riggs gets it, and while an obviously overwhelming reason 
why Riggs and several other prominent Florida athletes have endorsed the Students Party instead of the Greek empire is be-cause vice presidential candidate Jesse Schmitt is on the football team, that doesn’t mean he is wrong for stating his opinion. 
In fact, he couldn’t be more right. Riggs has that option because of the First Amendment, 
which was completely and literally trashed by a separate fac-tion Monday when hundreds of copies of the Alligator were thrown in the nearest wastebasket. 
Some people were so afraid of Students usurping the power 
from the Greeks that they stooped to the lowest level of all and made an effort to silence the free and independent press. 
The motivation? Likely the statement released by UF foot-
ball coach Will Muschamp supporting and endorsing Schmitt and the Students Party in today’s and Wednesday’s elections. 
From his release, Muschamp said, “I join his teammates in 
endorsing Jesse as VP for student government. I know that his leadership and drive for excellence will make him successful and in turn make campus a better place for every student.” Students, athletes can find common ground in Unite hatred 
Matt w atts
twitter: @wattmatts
See w AttS, pAge 16
“Just doing the 
small things right was 
one thing we weren’t 
great at, and that’s 
one thing we’re harp-
ing on in the fall and 
the spring.”
Preston Tucker
UF first baseman/outfielder TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator StaffAundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Florida redshirt junior guard Mike Rosario (hip) is expected to re-
turn tonight against Auburn after missing UF’s last three games.
� AFTER A BRIEF FALL, FLORIDA MOVED UP IN 
BOTH POLLS THIS WEEK.
GREG LUCA
Alligator Staff Writer
Mike Rosario will likely be available for Florida’s 
matchup against Auburn tonight, coach Billy Donovan 
said Monday . 
Rosario missed UF’s last three games with a hip point-
er after colliding with Cody Larson during a practice fol-lowing Florida’s Feb. 11 matchup with Tennessee. The 
impact left substantial bruising and swelling, according to Donovan, so much so that Rosario was limited from even 
jogging or riding a bike. 
He progressed such that he attempted practice Friday 
but ultimately pulled himself out. Instead of traveling with the team to Arkansas, he remained in Gainesville for 
additional treatment. 
Donovan said Rosario practiced Sunday and would 
play if Monday’s practice goes smoothly . 
“He’s really favoring it to the point where he’s very, 
very leery of cutting and moving in certain ways,” Dono-van said. “I don’t think he’s going to put himself in a posi-tion where he’s going to re-injure it. ... But I do think he 
has a lack of confidence in the injury in terms of working 
through it because it just does not feel comfortable when he’s cutting and moving.”
Donovan added that Rosario has not suffered many in-
juries during his career and thus tends to be overcautious when they occur. 
Over the course of this season, Rosario has dealt with 
a sprained ankle and a disc issue in his lower back, and Donovan said Rosario was hampered by a fear of aggra-
vating his injury in both instances. 
“It causes him when he’s playing to be very, very ten-
tative and to almost shy away from doing certain things on the court when he doesn’t feel comfortable,” Donovan said. “For Mike, it’s been more of trying to get him to do 
stuff that maybe he’s not confident doing and trying to get him to understand that, ‘OK, you’re not going to re-
injure this or set yourself back.’ But I think when he’s feel-
ing pain and discomfort in his mind right now, he worries about that.”
Rosario is UF’s leading scorer off the bench at 7.9 points 
per game. In two contests without him, Florida scored a combined four bench points. 
Beal earns honor: Brad Beal was named Southeastern 
Conference Freshman of the Week for the sixth time this season, the league announced Monday . 
Beal scored 35 points, grabbed 17 rebounds and added 
six assists in wins over Alabama and Arkansas. He also contributed on the defensive end with four steals and four 
blocks. 
Donovan specifically praised Beal’s rebounding. He 
has grabbed 49 boards over the last six games, compared to Patric Young’s 29 and Erik Murphy’s 24.
“He has made an effort to 
go to the glass,” Donovan said. “He’s always been a good re-
bounding guard. He needs to 
get in there and rebound for our team — it helps us.”
Movin’ on up: In the latest edition of the AP Poll, re-
leased Monday , Florida moved up two spots from No. 14 to No. 12. The Gators also rose from No. 12 to No. 11 in 
the coaches’ poll. 
UF’s RPI is also on the rise, moving from No. 20 to No. 
17 this week. That shift has the Gators projected as a No. 4 seed in ESPN’s Bracketology with Joe Lunardi.
Although Donovan said he does not talk to his team 
about their potential NCAA Tournament seeding, Erving Walker said the Gators occasionally take notice. 
“Sometimes,” Walker said with a grin. “But Joe Lu-
nardi is wrong sometimes.”
Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.orgRosario return possible; Beal awarded 
Donovan judging success on more than good shooting performances
throw a rock in the ocean.”
While the Tigers frustrated the Gators in 
their 2011 meeting primarily with a single de-
fensive set, the 2-3 zone, Florida is preparing for Auburn to throw a variety of formations, 
including a 2-2-1 press and stints of man-to-
man its way this time.
Boynton said ball movement and getting 
good penetration into the lane will be impor -tant in opening up the Tigers’ aggressive de-fense. 
The Gators will also focus on working the 
ball into 6-foot-9 center Patric Young, who was in foul trouble for most of the Arkansas win but had a team-high 19 points at Alabama. The four Florida big men who scored last year at Auburn, including Young, were only able to notch 19 points combined.
“As long as we play unselfishly and make 
good decisions and the right passes, I think the defense always dictates where the ball needs to go,” Donovan said. “I thought in the game against Arkan-sas we did a good job of that. How Auburn guards us, and the decisions we’ll 
have to make in that game, 
presents its own challenge 
as itself.”
Regardless of where Florida finds scoring, 
Donovan wants his team’s play to be judged by more than just how many threes it makes, whether that be the 13 the Gators made at Ar -
kansas or five at Auburn last year.
“I just have never been a big believer of the 
fact that if the ball goes in the basket, you play well,” he said. 
“What I was pleased with is that I felt that 
our spacing, our ball movement, our shot se-
lection was great. Once the shot goes up and 
we don’t make them, you still have to go and do some other things.” 
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org.
HOOPS , from page 14
Walker
UF Bask etballThe Alligator ran a story 
about the endorsement on the 
front page of Monday’s edition, one you probably didn’t get to 
see unless you rooted through 
garbage. 
There are plenty of reasons 
(roughly five million) why peo-ple didn’t want that story to be 
seen by the masses  of the stu-
dent population. 
By having total and complete 
domination in SG, Unite controls about $5 million of the more than 
$17 million in student funds and 
has done so without bipartisan representation for as long as I can 
remember. 
The members of that party 
were responsible for the voter 
debacle during fall semester, and they routinely look out for 
what’s best for the Greeks, not 
what’s best for all students.
They control UF, and they 
want it to stay that way. 
And what’s the biggest com-
petition to that control? The real student population. The fans of Gators sports. 
People at Florida have shown 
through dismal voter turnout that they couldn’t care less about 
SG, but that has to change. 
Less than 5 percent of the en-
rollment of UF is affiliated with 
a Greek organization, but nearly 
100 percent of SG is controlled by 
fraternities and sororities — oth-
erwise known as Unite. 
They crave that power, and 
as long as you — the everyday 
person who isn’t worried about 
the next gym sesh or tan appoint-
ment — don’t get involved, then Unite will continue its reign. 
Do we really need more fluo-
rescent tank tops and stupid neon 
sunglasses roaming campus? 
Do we really need more dicta-
torial “leadership” and control? 
Or is it time for a real party that 
caters to your interests to take 
over? 
We at alligatorSports know 
where our allegiance lies. 
Just ask Cody Riggs.#TeamJesseSchmitt 
#StudentsParty 
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@
alligator.org.
2 for 12 with runners in scoring position. After 
getting runners on second and third with no outs in the third inning, the Gators responded with two 
infield flies from Vickash Ramjit and Josh Tobias 
and a strikeout by Thompson. 
In the fifth, Preston Tucker reached on a leadoff 
double before watching Zunino strike out looking and Austin Maddox and Ramjit fly out to center 
field. 
O’Sullivan had a tough time properly describ-
ing his team’s troubles. 
“I don’t know,” he said. “I saw our hitters 
swinging the bat really, really well against our 
own pitching for a long time here. In my mind, we’re a much better offense than we showed this weekend.”
Florida carries one of the nation’s most power -
ful lineups but even that tended to be untimely against Fullerton. The three home runs tallied by UF hitters (two for Tucker, one for freshman catch-
er Taylor Gushue) were all of the solo variety, even 
leading Tucker to downplay a Sunday in which he went 3 for 4 with a homer and a walk. 
“Unfortunately, the times I got hits there was 
nobody on base,” he said. “The at-bat I made early 
that I made an out on, there were two guys on. I 
could have drove them in.”
Such is life on a team that features some of the 
best talent in the country and will be a national 
championship favorite all season barring a ma-
jor shakeup. In order to avoid complacency, is-sues like scoring runners earlier in counts will be brought to the forefront so any possible excuses are ironed out when the postseason arrives. 
“We realized that some of the teams that did do 
the best jobs of [manufacturing runs in 2011] were some of the best teams,” Tucker said. “Just doing the small things right was one thing we weren’t 
great at, and that’s one thing we’re harping on in 
the fall and the spring.”16, ALLIGATOR §  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012
David Carr / Alligator
Florida senior Preston Tucker said the team realizes it needs to get bet-
ter at manufacturing runs, a problem that cost the Gators last year.
O’Sullivan: ‘We’re a much better offense’
BASEBALL , from page 14JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
When the Gators needed points, 
Lanita Bartley called for the ball.
Bartley made four free throws 
in the final 7.8 seconds of Florida’s 
upset against No. 18 Georgia in the 
O’Connell Center on Sunday.
“I just make sure I get open 
because coach (Amanda Butler) 
always tells me I need to get the ball,” Bartley said. “I was hitting free throws, so I just demanded the ball.”
The senior guard scored 11 
points against Georgia; nine came 
from free throws, punctuating her 
current tear at the foul line.
Since a disappointing 4-of-8 
showing from the charity stripe in a 73-72 double-overtime loss to Ar -
kansas on Jan. 29, Bartley has been nearly automatic on foul shots.
She has made 22 of her last 24 
attempts, fueled by a streak of 13 
consecutive made free throws that 
ended in the first half on Sunday.
Bartley started a new streak 
shortly after, which currently sits at eight straight.
Perhaps most impressive has 
been her late-game poise at the line.Bartley is 6 of 6 on free throws 
in the last 10 seconds of the Gators’ last two games.
“The inconsistency at the free-
throw line has made some of those moments (in close games) difficult 
to coach,” Butler said. “’Nita cer -
tainly has emerged as a great can-
didate for those moments.”
While Bartley has done signifi-
cant damage at the line, she would not have so many attempts if not for her style of play.
Bartley is a slasher who likes 
to drive the 
lane, a mental-ity that has her ranked second for Florida with 5.2 rebounds per game and 93 free-throw at-tempts.
“(She’s) re-
ally capitalizing on some of these moments where maybe she can im-pact the game in a way that maybe some of her other teammates can’t,” Butler said.
Nearly a month ago, Butler 
challenged Bartley and the seniors to “take control” of the season.
Butler credits the Gators’ 4-2 re-
cord in their last six games to im-proved consistency from not just 
Bartley but the entire senior class.
Bartley has spearheaded the 
veteran surge by averaging 13.4 
points in her last seven contests, but she has not been the lone senior to step up.
Deana Allen has put up 9.5 
points per game in February , and Jordan Jones looks to be regaining 
her shooting touch after scoring 
nine against the Bulldogs.
Senior production has also in-
creased in the frontcourt with Aza-nia Stewart shooting 54.5 percent in February and Ndidi Madu averag-ing 8.3 points in her last four road games, taking some pressure off leading scorer Jennifer George.
Florida has struggled in close 
games this season, posting a 3-9 record in games decided by six points or fewer, but the 61-57 upset of Georgia combined with the se-nior class’ improvement may serve as a much-needed turning point.
“Coach Butler gave us the chal-
lenge,” Jones said. “Some people 
fold and some rise above [tough 
times] and bounce back to show what they’re made of in the next game.”
Contact Joe Morgan at joemor-
gan@alligator.org.Bartley’s killer instinct helping UFWATTS , from page 14
Bartley
