VOLUME 106 ISSUE 89 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
For continuing coverage of the tragedy on I-75, visit 
alligator.org
Updates include reader-submitted photos showing the lack of visibility at the time of the accidents.
Monday Feature
Choreographer Ann Liv Young makes no apologies 
for her unique brand of performance, pg. 5. 
EMILY MORROW
Alligator Staff Writer
Ronny Herrera was headed 
north on Interstate 75 when he 
suddenly couldn’t see what was in front of him.
The 19-year-old advertising 
sophomore was on his way back to Gainesville from Gasparilla in Tampa with four friends.
At about 4 a.m., Herrera ap-
proached Paynes Prairie State Park when he hit what he de-scribed as a thick wall of smoke.
He quickly slowed down to 5 
miles per hour.
“I had to open my window and 
stick my head out to even see the lines on the highway,” he said. “I couldn’t see anything past the edge of my car.” 
The smoke and fog blanketing 
the highway early Sunday morn-ing obscured everything: driv-ers’ vision, rescue efforts and the details of how a series of wrecks claimed 10 lives.
What started as a brush ﬁ  re 
ended in one of the most deadly pile-ups in North Florida history, involving about 20 vehicles and sending 18 people to the hospital. 
One Florida Highway Patrol 
ofﬁ  cer said it was the worst ac-cident he’d seen in his 27-year career. As of Sunday night, the iden-
tities of those involved were not 
released.
At abound 2:45 p.m. Saturday, 
a brush ﬁ  re started on Paynes 
Prairie, sending smoke billowing across U.S. 441 and I-75. As night fell, so did the temperatures, bringing in a heavy fog to mix with the smoke.
The low visibility caused FHP 
ofﬁ  cers to temporarily close U.S. 441 and I-75 after a series of mi-nor accidents.But hours later, the interstate 
was reopened after FHP ofﬁ  cers determined that drivers would be able to see the road for at least a mile. 
Then the crashes started 
again.
At about 4 a.m., FHP received 
the ﬁ  rst 911 call from I-75 between mile markers 377 and 378.The southbound lane of I-75 
went up in ﬂ  ames as a FedEx truck and another semi-truck car-rying Puffs tissues crashed into each other.
Tissue boxes, newspapers 
and books with burnt edges lay among the smoldering remains of the semitrailers’ skeletons.
A four-door Pontiac Grand 
Prix was crushed underneath a Dodge Ram pickup. The charred remains of a body were visible in-side the Grand Prix.
Herrera, blindly driving 
through the scene, thought he was in the middle of a brush ﬁ  re.
“I saw ﬂ  ames, stacks of ﬁ  re,” he 
said. “We kept hearing bangs.”
As Herrera narrowly missed 
becoming involved in one of the northbound wrecks, Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce Sgt. Todd Kelly was arriving on the scene.
The smoke and fog was so 
thick, Kelly said, he couldn’t see 6 feet in front of his face.
Rescue workers had to ﬁ  nd vic-
tims by their groans and screams.
“You could hear people moan-
ing, screaming ‘help me,’ and you can’t even see,” he said.
Workers had to dodge the 
trucks’ cargo and exploding tires as they removed victims from their cars.
Then, yards away in the north-
bound lanes, the second series of wrecks began.Ten dead in series of multi-vehicle accidents on I-75
71/44
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 13Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
The charred wreckage of a semitrailer and an SUV sits on Interstate 75 Sunday afternoon. The wrecks 
claimed 10 lives and sent 18 to the hospital.
ON CAMPUS
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Writer
Trisha Lueck sat in an oversized armchair 
in Library West, her laptop and belongings  
crammed into a corner within reach of a much-coveted outlet.
She’ll be able to use that outlet during the 
wee hours of the night this semester, thanks to Library West’s new nighttime hours.
Library West began its new hours Jan. 9 
after Student Government provided fund-ing.
The library is open 24 hours a day starting 
10 a.m. Sundays and staying open through 10 p.m. Fridays. It is also open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturdays.Patrick Reakes, chair of Library West, said 
about 200 people use the library every night.
He said while there were 120 people in 
the library at 2 a.m. Wednesday, that number dropped to 68 at 3 a.m.
“What we thought was going to happen 
is happening,” he said. “You hit about 3 and it drops way off until 7, which matches with what other libraries have had happen.”
Reakes said the number of students has 
been building since the new hours began, and he predicts that number will continue to rise after the library further publicizes the new hours and has a kick-off event within the next couple weeks.
Two new staff members, security guards 
and several students have been hired to ac-commodate the change, and Student Gov-ernment paid roughly $60,000 to fund it.
Unlike Student Government, the library is 
funded entirely by state funds, which are in 
short supply, Reakes said. 
If the library does not 
get extra money from Stu-dent Government in the fall, Reakes said the library will be unable to maintain its new hours during the 
fall semester.
“The reality is there’s a 
lot of things people want 
to do on campus, but the funding just isn’t there,” he said. “At this point, the provost doesn’t have the money and Student Gov-ernment hasn’t said they would have the money, either.”
Reakes said people have always wanted 
the library to be open 24 hours, and these pi-lot hours will be good for students with dif-ferent schedules.
Lueck, a 19-year-old industrial engineer-
ing sophomore, said while Friday was her ﬁ  rst time in Library West this semester, she has used the library’s extended hours during exams for late-night cramming. She said she plans to do the same this semester.
“I used it all the time during ﬁ  nals last se-
mester,” Lueck said. “I get more work done at the library than I do at my apartment, so if I studied all night in my apartment I’d get less done than if I’m in the library.”
Number of late-night students rising at Library West
Reakes
SEE CRASH, PAGE 4About 20 cars were involved SundayFlorida forward 
Erik Murphy drew 
praise for his ability 
to create mismatches 
in UF’s win against 
MSU on Sunday. 
See story, page 13.News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 89 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tom Green, Phil Kegler, Greg Luca,   
  Corey McCall, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Calli Breil, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward, 
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett, 
  David Williams, Nika Zecevic, 
  Chloe Finch
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager
 Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY
THUNDER
STORMS
76/53RAIN
80/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/54PARTLY
CLOUDY
76/50SUNNY
71/44
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
IMPACT Autism @ UF General 
Meeting
Today, 4 p.m.Health Professions, Nursing and Pharmacy Building, Room 1101Join IMPACT Autism for its fi-nal general meeting of the new year. Come and see how you can get involved this semes-ter and learn what the club has planned. Check out the Facebook group, “IMPACT Autism @ UF,” for more infor-mation. 
Open house, potluck at 
Toastmasters meetingTuesday, 5:45 p.m.Entomology Building, Room 1031Talking Gators Toastmasters Club hosts an open house with a potluck food table. Meet members and learn about Toastmasters, an international organization that provides a positive atmosphere to learn and practice public speak-ing and leadership skills, in a group setting. For details, go to talkinggators.freetoast-host.biz. The club is also on Facebook.
Free English Classes
Every Tuesday through May 29, 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.Millhopper Branch Public LibraryPractice your conversational skills. For more information, contact info@latinawomen-sleague.org.
Radical About Christ Bible 
StudyWednesday, 5 p.m.Little Hall, Room 201February is the month of love. Radical About Christ presents “The Month of Unconditional Love.” The first topic being covered is “Understanding Love.”
Dance Marathon Hosts 5K, 
FT5KSunday, 8 a.m.UF Commuter LotDance Marathon at UF is host-ing its annual 5K, the “FT5K.” Online per-registration is $20 and same-day registration is $25. A 1-mile fun run is an op-tion for those who like shorter distances for only $10. All pro-ceeds benefit Shands Hospital for Children, our local Children’s Miracle Network Hospital. To learn more and register, visit www.floridadm.org/5k.
Twenty-fifth Annual Women’s 
Leadership ConferenceFeb. 26, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.Reitz Union Grand BallroomRegistration is now open at ufwsa.blogspot.com. Registration is $15 and in-cludes breakfast, a keynote speaker, leadership work-goatees for the first time ever, Dis-
ney officials said Monday.
The change in Disney’s facial 
hair policy will apply to workers in Florida and California starting next month, said spokeswoman Andrea Finger.
Facial hair was prohibited on 
theme park workers when found-er Walt Disney opened Disneyland in California in the mid-1950s. The company revised its policy in 2000 to allow mustaches, provided they were grown on vacation and not at work.
Starting Feb. 3, beards, mus-
taches and other facial growth will be allowed.
Reaction from rank-and-file 
workers has run the gamut, said Donna-Lynne Dalton, a spokes-woman for Teamsters Local 385, which represents costumed work-ers, laundry workers and parking attendants.
“You’re having people going 
‘Yahoo! Cool!’ and you’re going to have the traditional Disney work-ers — who have their own supply of pixie dust — that doubt Walt would approve,” she said.
Disney periodically reassesses 
its grooming requirements, and officials decided now was a good time to revise their facial hair poli-cy, Finger said.
The policy change also allows 
workers in areas without visitor contact to have casual Fridays.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
natiOnaL
NYC officials dodge blame over 
‘SHCOOL X-NG’ sign 
NEW YORK — Everyone 
who’s ever gone to school should 
know how to spell “school.”
But someone who plastered a 
school crossing sign on the street in front of a New York City high school got it wrong.
The New York Post reports 
that the big white letters in front of Marta Valle High School on the Lower East Side say “SHCOOL X-NG.”
A spokesman for the city De-
partment of Transportation said the error was made by a utility provider, not the city.
The Post says workers appar -
ently cut into the asphalt where the letters were painted several months ago to get to underground utility lines. When utilities or con-tractors perform work on a city street, they are responsible for re-storing it correctly.
The Department of Transporta-
tion spokesman said the error will be corrected.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSshops, lunch, an organiza-
tion fair, a speakers panel, a gift bag, networking op-portunities and more. The keynote speaker will be Karen DeYoung, a Pulizter Prize-winning journalist and an associate editor for the Washington Post.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
LOCaL
Man charged with robbery and 
kidnapping of UF student
When UF student Marshall 
Swing told an inquiring stranger 
he didn’t have any money Sat-urday night, he was punched in the face, according to Gainesville Police Department.
Cody Seltzer, 19, was charged 
with robbery and kidnapping with the intention to force the victim to commit a felony. Selt-zer has been arrested four times since October, three times in Hillsborough County . 
Seltzer was still at Alachua 
County Jail on Sunday night in lieu of a $50,000 bond. 
Swing was at 600 W Univer -
sity Ave. when Seltzer punched and kicked him in the leg at 9:15 p.m. Seltzer then forced him to walk with him, according to po-lice.
Seltzer yelled at Swing along 
the way , telling him he would be buying Seltzer beer at a nearby store. After the two walked about one block east, officer Sandy Tea-sley arrested Seltzer.
Swing, who told Teasley he 
feared for his life, is studying the-atre and German studies, accord-ing to his Facebook page. He did not return calls seeking comment Sunday night.
In October, Seltzer was arrest-
ed twice in Hillsborough County: once for possession of an open container and again for criminal mischief. He also charged with grand theft and resisting arrest in November.
— TYLER JETT
state
Disney will allow park workers 
to have beards 
ORLANDO  — Workers at 
Disney’s U.S. theme parks will 
be allowed to grow beards and  MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Jan. 30, 1976: UF President Robert Marston pro-
poses a $10-per-quarter surcharge for all incoming 
freshman and transfer students because, he said, the state’s flagship university should charge more for its “higher quality of education.” Marston said students entering UF after Fall 1976 would have the choice of paying the surcharge or attending university elsewhere. 
Jan. 31, 1985:  Beta Theta Pi fraternity members 
are charged with hazing and other abusive actions, including publishing a booklet with derogatory statements about individuals and groups affiliated with UF. The 25-page booklet included a detailed description of the amount of beers it takes to se-duce identified little sisters of the fraternity.
Feb. 1, 1988: An unidentified vandal smashes a 
rock against the Student Traffic Court’s front door. The vandal caused between $200 and $300 in dam-age, said traffic court Chief Justice Bruce Denson.
Feb. 2, 1999: UF ranks first in the number of 
national fast-food chains on campus compared to universities of equal size, according to a survey by Gator Dining Services. Of UF’s 30 dining locations, 10 are national franchises, tying with Ohio State University, said Melanie Poling, marketing direc-tor for Gator Dining Services.
Feb. 3,  2006: Internet voting appears on Stu-
dent Government ballots as an option for students to vote. The current system — paper ballots, elec-tronic voting and intranet voting — doesn’t allow students to vote from home.
— RAVEN PRITCHETTstudent government
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
About 100 fewer students qualified to run in this season’s 
Student Government elections. 
Qualifications for SG’s spring elections started Friday . 
They will continue today and Tuesday on the second floor of 
the Reitz Union from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Qualifying determines whether a candidate is eligible for 
the job.
On Friday , 48 students had qualified. Last semester, 149 
students qualified on the first day, said Supervisor of Elec-tions Toni Megna. 
After qualifying, if a student is interested in running with 
a political party, he or she will be interviewed by party mem-bers. 
Students can interview with any party , but they have to 
tell Megna which party they want to slate with before quali-fying ends Tuesday . 
Once it ends, a student who chose to slate with a party 
cannot change his or her mind, even if that party doesn’t choose him or her to run as a candidate. 
Each party can interview as many students as it wants, 
but the party can only choose 50 candidates to slate on the ticket. 
Students running as independents don’t have to be inter -
viewed.
The Students Party interviewed about 
10 students, said Students Party Sen. Carly Wilson. 
“It’s been incredibly slow,” she said. Eliona Jankulla, an 18-year-old political 
science sophomore, interviewed with the 
Students Party for a nomination for a seat in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. She said she found out about qualifying 
from a friend who ran for the Senate in the fall.  
“I am interested in the leadership opportunity,” she said. The Unite Party saw 39 students on Friday , said party 
spokeswoman Christina Bonarrigo. She said that number is significantly lower than in the past, but she believes some students were going out of town for the weekend.Fewer students qualify for SG election
Bonarrigo
JOVAHN HUERTAS
Alligator Contributing Writer
For most voters, the 2012 Florida 
Republican Presidential Preference 
Primary and Gainesville city elections are on Tuesday. But for thousands of early voters in Alachua County, the elections have already happened.
Early voting began at 10 a.m. Jan. 
21 and ended Saturday.By 4 p.m. Saturday, when the polls 
closed, 3,976 votes had been cast, said Alachua County Supervisor of Elec-tions Pam Carpenter.  
In addition, 3,971 absentee ballots 
had been collected as of 5 p.m. Satur -
day, though that number is expected to increase by 7 p.m. Tuesday, she said.
Early voting was slightly different 
this year due to the state’s change in election laws.
In past elections, early voting was 
open for two weeks. This year, by the new election standards, early voting was reduced to eight days.  
Despite this change, the early vot-
ing process has run smoothly, and voter turnout has been steady and fairly high, Carpenter said.
“We usually see high interest in 
the beginning, which dips down in the middle and increases again at the end,” she said. “But this year, we’ve had a steady uptick in number each day.”About 4,000 vote early in city elections
Early voting ended SaturdayCars, trying to avoid the accidents, swerved off the 
interstate on both sides, leaving deep tire marks in the 
grass.
The passenger vehicles involved were of various makes 
and models and bore Florida and out-of-state tags, Ala-chua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell said. There were six or seven commercial vehicles involved.
Hours after the accidents, mangled, burned-out cars 
and trucks spanned about a mile of highway.
Some emergency workers shoveled metal and ashes off 
the roadway while others still worked to remove bodies from the wreckage.
Eighteen people were taken to Shands at UF with inju-
ries, said Lt. Patrick Riordan of FHP . Of those, 12 were tak-en to the emergency room and six were taken to Shands’ Level 1 Trauma Center, reserved for the most critical in-juries.
Dr. Timothy Flynn, chief medical officer at Shands, said 
the hospital has a disaster alert system it uses to get extra nurses, doctors, surgeons and anesthesiologists on staff in the case of catastrophic accidents like this one.
He said the majority of injuries the staff saw were blunt 
trauma to the head and chest and broken bones.
The interstate was closed in both directions Sunday 
from mile marker 368 to the Williston Road exit at mile marker 382 while the accidents were investigated and emergency workers cleared the scene. Traffic was diverted to U.S. 441.
Sheriff Darnell said if poor visibility conditions contin-
ued Sunday night, police would station themselves along the highway with their lights on to warn drivers of the unsafe conditions.
She advised drivers to slow down if visibility is bad, to 
maintain a safe distance from other cars and to get off the roadway if conditions become unsafe.
Florida Forest Service spokeswoman Ludie Bond said 
the fire that started on Paynes Prairie east of U.S. 441 on Saturday is totally contained but is still active. It has con-sumed 62 acres of the prairie so far, she said, and officials are still investigating its cause.
“[This fire] will probably continue to put up smoke be-cause it will continue to burn for weeks or even months,” she said.
A similar fire from November is still burning, she said, 
because the dried vegetation on the prairie is so thick and deep.
Northbound lanes on I-75 reopened at about 6 p.m. Sun-
day. Emergency workers were still clearing vehicles from the southbound lanes Sunday evening, Riordan said. As of Sunday evening, all six patients in the trauma 
center were still receiving care, and four of the patients in the emergency room remained in the hospital, according to a Shands news release.
Herrera and his friends made it home safely. When they 
woke up later that morning, they saw photos of what they had driven through.
“I’m lucky to be alive,” Herrera said. “We all are.”4, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
� ABOUT 12,000 ATTENDED ON 
SATURDAY.
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH
Alligator Writer
The sounds of crashing swords, the smell 
of fried foods and the sight of royalty trans-
formed the Alachua County Fairgrounds into a medieval world this weekend.
The 26th annual Hoggetowne Medieval 
Faire started this weekend and will contin-ue from Friday to Sunday.
It was the largest opening day in the his-
tory of the fair, said Bill Hutchinson, 65-year-old entertainment director of the fair.
On Saturday, about 12,000 people at-
tended, and 9,500 people attended on Sun-day, said Linda Piper, events coordinator with the City of Gainesville Division of Cul-tural Affairs.
Participants arrived dressed as every-
thing from Orcs from the “Lord of the Rings” series to bar maidens and blacksmiths.
“Everyone is comfortable to be them-
selves or their favorite character,” Hutchin-son said.
The fair is run by the city under the Divi-
sion of Cultural Affairs, and the cost of ad-mission to the fair pays for next year’s fair, he said. There were 150 vendors and 120 performers at fair this year, he said.
Actors from the Thieves Guilde, a stage-
combat acting troupe, performed hand-to-hand combat and sword fighting during their annual show, called “The Living Chess Board.”
Audience members heckled for the good 
and evil sides and chanted, “We want blood, we want blood!”
The king and queen of the chessboard 
strolled through the streets of medieval village making fun of people and playing practical jokes on those walking around the fair.
The New Riders of the Golden Age, a 
nationwide Renaissance-period jousting group, put on a jousting competition with splintering lances and knights in full ar -
mor.
“We follow the same patterns, designs 
and armors today as 500 years ago with the same techniques,” said Kelly Bailey , 56-year-old director of the group.
The horses, clad in steel armor, gal-
loped toward each other as people sitting in bleachers gasped when lance met armor and splintered into pieces.
Paolo Garbanzo, the winner of the 2007 
International Jester Competition in Mun-caster, England, juggled pins, ate fire and joked with children.
John Waltz, 26-year-old UF mechanical 
engineering master’s student, said he goes to the fair for the food, drink and fun.
He has been to at least seven medieval 
fairs around the southeastern United States, but he said he still loves the Hoggetowne fair and wants to come back next year.
“I’m here for turkey legs and a good cup 
of mead,” Waltz said. “There’s nothing bet-ter.”Hoggetowne Medieval Faire draws its biggest first-day crowd
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
David Buth, 46, an Alachua County resident, dresses as Azog, a 446-year-old Orc from 
Moria, for the 26th annual Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on Saturday afternoon.
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
An Alachua County Fire Rescue worker sprays down the wreckage of a semitrailer on Interstate 75 Sunday after-
noon. The semitrailer was involved in a wreck around 4 a.m. that claimed 10 lives.
Ten remain in the hospital as of Sunday night, conditions unknown
CRASH , from page 1 MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 5
MONDAY FEATURE
ERIN JESTER
Alligator Staff Writer
Ann Liv Young stood and faced the cast 
of her show.
They wore wedding gowns and 
Rollerblades, and some were perched on lid-less toilets. She gave corrections in a voice that was quiet but ﬁ  rm.
Young, an internationally recognized cho-
reographer and performance artist, spent two weeks at UF re-staging her 2002 piece, “Amer-ican Crane Standards,” for the School of The-atre and Dance’s production “Dance 2012” opening Feb. 17.
The cast, a dozen male and female UF 
dance majors, paid close attention to Young’s direction during the last rehearsal before she returned home to Jersey City, N.J., on Satur-day.
The corrections were standard — move 
with conﬁ  dence, stay in unison, project the voices — but Young’s work is anything but. 
“Make sure you really stick it when you 
fall,” she said to the dancers as they adjusted their gowns. “When you’re down, you’re down. You’re dead.”
Young, 30, has been both critically ac-
claimed and condemned for her art, which blends dance with elements of theater, pop culture, history and pornography. 
The New York Times has called her per-
formances dull, amateurish and inept, while other outlets hail her work as captivating, re-freshing and even beautiful.
Critics alternately adore and vilify her for 
employing shock value and gratuitous ob-scenity to get her point across.
“I don’t feel like anything I’ve really ever 
done feels shocking to me,” she said.
Young has a history of taking her audience 
to an uncomfortable place with the goal, she said, of making them feel something.
She defecates onstage in her “Cinderella” 
show. Live sex, masturbation and lots of nu-dity are the hallmarks of most of her work.
But biological processes and normal hu-
man behavior aren’t shocking to her because, she said, everyone does them.
While watching Disney’s adaptation of Cinderella with her daughter, Lovey , the 4-year-old asked, “Mom, why doesn’t Cinder-ella ever go to the bathroom?”
“What an incredible question,” Young said. 
“Because she does. If she were real, she would have to.”
Omitting actions such as eating and going 
to the bathroom reinforce the idea of passive women, she said.
“My Cinderella poops onstage, and people 
are like, ‘It’s so shocking,’ and I think that’s amazing, because everyone poops,” she said.
“This is singular,” said dance professor 
Neta Pulvermacher, who invited Young to reset her “American Crane Standards” on UF students. 
While she was still a student, Young took 
ballet and dance composition classes from Pul-vermacher at the American Dance Festival.
Young’s work, Pulvermacher said, is im-
portant simply because it exists.“It’s very much of our time, almost ahead 
of its time, and exposes extraordinary angles or fragments of truth, humanity and paradox-es of living.”
Young’s use of melodrama, porn and 
“trashy dancing” is so sophisticated, Pulver-macher said, it creates an entirely new theatri-cal language. 
Because of that, there is no possibility of 
apathy for the audience.
“It will make you feel something,” she said. 
“And ultimately, for me, that’s the role of any art form.”
But people don’t want to be honest and 
they don’t want to be embarrassed, and that’s why Young often meets resistance in the art world, she said.
In February 2010, the director of the Muse-
um of Modern Art’s venue PS1 cut the power during Young’s “Sherry” show after Young, as her character Sherry, ended an altercation with another performer by removing her clothes and touching herself.
The aggressiveness of the roles Young plays 
might scare some people, and she’s aware of that. In fact, she welcomes it.
“I’m not interested in making things to 
make them feel happy , at least in that way ,” Young said. “I’m interested in affecting them.”
She knows people are terriﬁ  ed to come 
to her Sherry show, where Sherry might ask pointedly , thrusting the microphone into the face of a female audience member, if she mas-turbates or if she’s had a miscarriage. 
Making the audience uncomfortable 
enough to realize something about human na-ture is what the work is designed to do.
For all the time she spends onstage rolling 
around in blood, verbally abusing audience members and chasing fellow performers with knives, offstage, Ann Liv Young is surpris-ingly unassuming.
Hardly a shade of the oft-feared performer 
shows through the choreographer. 
She was calm and even soft-spoken when 
working with the UF dancers, who described her teaching as physically and mentally me-ticulous.
“She’s pushed me farther than any chore-
ographer in a nonphysical sense, but it’s just as physically exhausting,” said Emmakate Geis-dorf, a 22-year-old dance junior. 
During Friday’s rehearsal, Young con-
stantly stopped the dancers to give them cor-rections, making them repeat seemingly un-important movements, such as the placing of the toilet tank lid into the bowl, until they were perfect.
Three failed attempts to get the placing of 
the lids in unison were enough to re-start the rehearsal from the beginning of the show.
“Let’s start over. It’s better,” Young said, 
kindly but ﬁ  rmly.
Three hours later, Young and the dancers 
emerged from the studio, tired and satisﬁ  ed. 
“She’s one of those teachers who changes 
your life,” said Lindsay Head, a 19-year-old dance sophomore. “She’s opened my eyes to being more comfortable with what I’m un-comfortable with.”Choreographer makes no apologies for art
Dana Burke / Alligator Staff
Choreographer Ann Liv Young, right, talks to Kate Pope, a 20-year-old dance junior, 
during a rehearsal of Young’s “American Crane Standards.”
Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialMONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
Today’s question: Have you taken advantage of the 
new hours at the library?
211 TOTAL VOTES21% YES
79% NOFriday’s question: Do you believe that Newt Gingrich could lead us to colonize the moon?Interstate Tragedy
Keep those affected 
in your thoughts
Although Florida is the central focus this week for po-litical news and events, we cannot go without ad-dressing the events that occurred this weekend. 
Early Sunday morning, a brush fire in Paynes Prairie 
State Park created poor visibility along Interstate 75. Unfor -
tunately, this led to a horrible accident involving about 20 vehicles, leaving 10 people dead. 
In what Florida Highway Patrol Lt. Patrick Riordan called 
one of the worst accidents he has seen in 27 years with the FHP, six more people were taken to the Shands at UF Level 1 Trauma Center and 12 were taken to the emergency room. 
Fortunately, Shands was able to take care of these people 
due to its disaster alert system, which is used to staff the hospital with extra nurses, doctors, surgeons and anesthesi-ologists, according to today’s article. 
We want to give our support to Shands as well as all of 
the rescue workers from FHP , the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office and Marion County Fire Rescue for putting their lives on the line to help those involved in the crash. 
These workers were literally dodging cargo and explod-
ing tires as they worked to get people out of the area. 
If you must travel any time in the next few days, we ad-
vise you to take extreme caution. 
These conditions could still be present later in the week. Check traffic reports, especially before you go near U.S. 
441 or I-75. 
Keep your radio tuned in to stations that regularly play 
traffic updates. 
Do not closely follow vehicles and slow down if you have 
any decrease in visibility. 
Keep your lights on at night and any time visibility less-
ens. 
If you have passed an area with poor conditions, please 
be courteous to other drivers, perhaps by flashing your lights as a warning. 
If things become really unsafe, try to make your way off 
the road or find a safer route. 
If you feel unsafe trying to go near that area, try to map 
out your drive early by visiting an online map site and find-ing alternative routes and possible detours. 
Finally, our thoughts go out to all of those affected by 
these accidents. 
Though there were about 20 vehicles directly involved, 
there will be hundreds of people touched by this weekend’s events. 
If you know someone who has been affected by these ac-
cidents, we advise you to do all you can to provide comfort and solace to those in need.
We hope to know more throughout the week, so please 
stay tuned for coverage of more information.The poor need to be empowered, not victimized
At the risk of sounding like I don’t care about poor 
people (when in fact those who would redistribute income would do more long-term damage than any 
other policy), the pictures currently painted in the media and by speakers at university campuses are inaccurate. Popular opinion about poverty is consistently warped by preconceptions with little understanding of the statistics behind it. 
In a response to a previous column, Nicole Safker as-
serted that I lied when I stated that the vast majority of the poor make more than the minimum wage. She implied that I was incompetent as a statistics major for not checking the U.S. Census Bureau and its description of poverty. 
Well, if you actually look at the data from the U.S. Bu-
reau of Labor Statistics, in 2010, only 3.8 percent of workers older than 25 made the minimum wage or less. Even if you exclude the top 75 percent of wage-earners older than 25, it is still true that the vast majority of impoverished people make above minimum wage. 
Consider for a moment that someone makes $7.25 per 
hour and works 40 hours a week for 52 weeks a year, a high-ly improbable and crushing schedule. This person would make $15,080 before taxes. According to coverageforall.org, the 2012 federal poverty guideline for a family of four is $23,050. Even if you look at the guideline for a pregnant mother — $15,130 — it is still above the minimum wage in the form of an annualized salary. 
Obviously a big problem right now for the country is the 
high unemployment rate and the underemployment rate that hits the poor hard. I had lunch with a homeless man who lamented the lack of construction jobs in Gainesville. High unemployment is truly saddening, and it is made worse by huge extensions in unemployment benefits and policy uncertainty that prevents businesses from hiring workers full-time. 
A problem with the federal poverty guideline is that 
$20,000 a year makes you look Third World in New York City and rich in West Virginia or Mississippi. A large num-ber of the poor in the U.S. live in places like the Mississippi Delta and Appalachia.  An income of $23,000 per year for a family of four is by no means poor in a relative sense for the people of this region. I have volunteered in Appalachia painting people’s homes, and I’ve been inside them.
Native Appalachians are poor in the sense that they can’t 
buy things they want. However, most have everything they need. I’ve seen homes that couldn’t pass for sheds in Flori-da and Mississippi, but these people own vehicles and have heating and cooling in most cases. We must stop thinking about the poor as victims and start viewing them as people we must empower by giving them choices. 
Some information about the poor to think about: One-
third have a plasma screen or LCD TV; 80 percent have AC units; 50 percent who have kids own video game systems like Xbox; and almost 75 percent have a car or truck. On top of this, about 42 percent own their own home. This data comes from a study done by the Heritage Foundation with data drawn from the same Census Bureau data that every-one claims to read now. 
We are made to liken the poor to Depression-era work-
ers, desperate for food and shelter. The truth is there are some who we must care for whether their condition is their own fault or not. However, the other truth remains that most poor people are not actually materially deprived. If we spent one-hundredth of the money we send out in food stamps on personal finance education, perhaps we could al-leviate how deeply in debt lower-income people often are by helping them be their own advocates.  The fact remains that if you look at America’s poor, they are the rest of the world’s 1 percent.   
Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at UF. 
His column appears on Mondays.
Travis Hornsby
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
While reading last 
Friday’s paper, the first section I read 
of Darts & Laurels criticized Newt Gingrich for want-ing to colonize the moon.  I wholeheartedly acknowl-edge that a colony of thou-sands of American citizens on the moon would be an utter waste of taxpayer dol-lars.  
However, I commend the 
former Speaker of the House for his good old-fashioned American ambition and de-sire to advance in an area that has lead to many influ-ential innovations. 
Today’s America lacks 
what made us a world power so many years ago: ambi-tion. 
In 1962, John F. Kennedy 
spoke of his intentions of traveling to the moon, say-ing, “We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win, and the others, too.”
At a time when we had 
just sent our first astronaut into space and were lagging far behind the Soviets, this was a bold statement by the president, one which would come to define an era of rap-id American and human pro-gression.
In 1969, when the Apollo 
11 mission became the first successful moon landing, technology in the guidance computer of the Saturn V launch paled in comparison to that of a modern toaster. Yet it was enough to land Buzz Aldrin and Neil Arm-strong on our nearest natural satellite. More than 39 years after the final moon landing of Apollo 17, we have yet to return to the moon and have no solid plans in the works to go back or beyond. This rais-es the question: Are we still a powerful and ambitious nation that can return to the moon and ultimately explore the vast expanse of space? 
The simple answer is no.Unfortunately, our pro-
pensity to bicker has not only resulted in the regression of our space program but also our so-c i e t y as a whole. 
Back in the 1960s, the econ-omy was a well-oiled ma-chine. The government was investing in intrepid endeav-ors and inspiring citizens. Children were aspiring to be the next Alan Shepard or Buzz Aldrin.  
I guarantee you our par -
ents’ and grandparents’ ex-pectations for space explora-tion far outshined our actual achievements. 
Pop culture has been 
enamored with the idea of space for decades; it provid-ed us a vehicle to display our grandiose vision. 
Series such as “Star 
Trek” envisioned interstel-lar space travel by the 23rd century.  However, current trends have left us visionar -
ies doubtful. Our culture has left these once well-received ideas in a state of decay.
Before you argue that we 
have more pressing matters to invest in, consider that the worldwide space budget is $38 billion, compared to the military budget of $2.1 tril-lion. 
Far more money is spent 
destroying civilization than advancing it. Inspiration will ultimately lead to the explo-ration of what lies beyond, what the brilliant Carl Sa-gan referred to as our “pale blue dot,” a “lonely speck in the great enveloping cosmic dark.” Sagan provided great wisdom in preaching, “For all our failings, despite our limitations and fallibilities, we humans are capable of greatness.”
The next chance you get, I 
challenge you to look up into the night sky. 
You will see a single 
crumb of the pie that is the universe. Every star you see is contained within our Milky Way Galaxy. Beyond that are billions of other gal-axies stretching across 13 bil-lion light years. 
With the enormity of our 
universe in mind, imagine the places we could one day go and the amazing discov-eries we could make. Then, and only then, tell me that Gingrich’s ambition is ab-surd.
Jordan Claar is a mechanical 
engineering junior at UF.
Gingrich right for having 
ambition to explore space Not too long ago, I embodied a characteristic 
that I now cannot stand: I believed the poor deserved to be poor. 
Thankfully, I had the experience I needed to knock 
the blinders off my $200 Transitions lenses in Lucky 
Brand frames at a library, leading me to surmise the word “deserve” should leave my vocabulary. 
One day when I was 14, my mom drove me to 
the downtown Orlando library as part of a meet-
ing for an engineering competition I took part in. While browsing for books on city planning, I came across an old, homeless black man named Jerry. He wore an oversized green coat and looked like an un-shaven Samuel L. Jackson who’d gotten into a knife fight.
 I didn’t want to get too close to him.Back then, I stood barely more than 5 feet tall, 
and the book I needed rested atop a shelf taller than me. 
Jerry sat on the only stool afforded to that floor 
of the library. He was perusing the bottom shelf of the aisle. 
Instead of asking Jerry for the stool, I asked one 
of the librarians if there were any stools I could use. 
“Jerry’s probably using the one,” the librar -
ian said, pointing toward the area where I already knew Jerry was. 
“He’s over by the urban sprawl books.” I stared at her, begging her to ask him for me 
with my eyes.
The librarian laughed. “Don’t worry. He doesn’t bite.”In all my life, adults had approached older black 
strangers for me. 
Having gone to minority-majority public schools 
for my entire education, I didn’t fear (or see differ -
ently) my black peers.
But boy, was I scared of Jerry, though I wouldn’t 
have admitted it at the time. 
I sublimated the fear into insults. I thought him 
inconsiderate for using the stool to look at books on the bottom shelf. 
I stared at Jerry from afar for a little while. Eventually I worked up 
enough self-righteousness — not courage — to ask him the question.
 “Are you done with the 
stool yet?” 
He chuckled. “Six minutes, 14 sec-
onds,” he said.
“What?” I asked. “It took you six minutes, 14 seconds to ask me to 
use this stool. Why’d you wait that long?”
“I don’t know. I didn’t want to seem rude.”He chortled. “Guess it only takes six minutes, 14 seconds for 
you to stop worrying about that.”
I felt like a kid who’d been caught stealing a 
candy bar. 
Jerry got up off the stool and rolled it over to me, 
walking away without another word. I got the book and went back to my team. 
Later that day, as I was leaving the library, I saw 
Jerry and apologized to him for being rude. He ac-cepted and we started talking. 
I learned he had a master’s degree and had had a 
job as a professor until he left it when his sister was diagnosed with cancer. 
He spent all his money on his sister’s treatment.  
He spent all the time he had staying by her side, even as she died. 
Now he spends his days reading in the library 
with no place to live. 
When I first saw Jerry, I felt like he deserved to 
be kicked out of the library. 
Now I see that the word “deserve” served as a 
crutch for me to self-aggrandize and justify poor treatment of other human beings. 
Moral: The concept of deserving has no objective 
measure and can lead people to act like monsters. If we as a people stopped using the word, I think we might treat each other a little better than we do right now.  
Chip Skambis is an English and telecommunication 
junior at UF. His column appears on Mondays.Poor do not necessarily ‘deserve’ povertyColumn
Guest column
Chip Skambis
opinions@alligator.orgJordan Claar
Speaking Out8, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
Amy Stuart / Alligator
Scott Fried, a member of the AIDS support group that inspired the 
musical “Rent,” talks about his experience with students at UF Hillel on Sunday.
BARBARA BERMUDEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Scott Fried let a broad smile stretch across his face 
as he told UF students how to savor life. Fried, who 
has HIV , said life is sweeter when people learn to love themselves.
UF Hillel partnered with seven organizations to 
bring Scott Fried, an international public speaker, HIV educator and author, to Gainesville for a week-end.
Fried was one of the founding members of the AIDS 
support group that inspired the musical “Rent.” 
“All of Hillel’s programs and activities are done for 
our students, and it was our students who requested Fried’s visit to Gainesville,” said Jeffrey Kaplan, Hil-lel program coordinator.
Fried spoke about HIV , sexuality and intimacy, 
among other topics, and he used his own experiences to speak to his audience.
“I live in those hard topics. I don’t run from them,” 
he said. “It’s about telling the truth of how I feel.”
Fried said he only expected to be a speaker for a 
few years, but the initiative kept growing and even-tually took on a life of its own.
He tested positive for HIV when he was 24, and 
he said he began talking to teenagers with the hope that, in their collective memory, he would be remem-bered.“I want to be remembered as an elegant man, 
quick to forgive, slow to get angry, and who listened to others with awaited tenderness,” Fried said with tears in his eyes.
Fried joined UF Hillel for its Shabbat celebration 
Friday night, followed by a Kosher dinner and oneg, which means after-party. He also spoke at an event at Hillel on Thursday.
“He reminded us that you can always keep go-
ing,” said Jordan Barrish, a 22-year-old public rela-tions senior. 
Fried discussed starting the AIDS support group 
in 1989 that inspired “Rent.”
“It was bittersweet,” he said. “I’m the only mem-
ber that is still alive. That part was real. They were real people, and they were my friends.”
UF Hillel is working on raising money to go on a 
service trip with Fried to Roatan, Honduras. A group of about 10 students will work with Fried to build a house for a family with HIV/AIDS.  
“You know life is sweet. I don’t need to remind 
you of that,” Fried said to a group of students at the oneg. “I’m interested in where it hurts. That’s where the work that I do is.”
Fried talked about the difference between self-
improvement and self-acceptance. He focused on the latter because he said he wants people to love and accept themselves.
“He makes people more comfortable to open up,” 
Barrish said. “He is amazing. It just sums it up.”HIV educator speaks to Hillel
“I want to be remembered as an elegant 
man, quick to forgive, slow to get angry, 
and who listened to others with awaited 
tenderness.”
Scott Fried
international public speakerHe is a founding 
member of group that inspired ‘Rent’BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
3/3’s-ROOMATE MATCHING
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED
DELUXE 3BR/BR Apartment Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       4-25-11-72-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave - Across from law school
$1650-special spring rate! - 4BR/2BA
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-31-12-16-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2bed/1bath Sun Key units starting at $550
2bed/1.5bath Sun Harbor Townhouse
starting at $575
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2BR/1BA close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available Feb 1st.REDUCED to $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183     1-31-11-15-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099    2-6-12-21-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
1-31-12-16-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA great house. 
Fireplace, wash/dry provided, dishwasher, wood floors, fenced. Pets OK. 7 min bike to campus. $1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342. Gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-12-19-23BR/1.5BA in Pleasant St, historic district, 
dwntwn. Ceiling fans, wood floors. Porch, newly painted. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. $1100/mo call April. 538-1550aprleve@aol.com   1-31-12-15-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    1-31-12-14-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA large house w/ big 
bedrooms & living room, extra game room. Fenced. Pets ok. W/D provided. 352-335-2342 or text 2100 NW 8th Court. $1400/mo or go to gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-12-19-2
1/1 spacious apt, $500,quiet, private,trees, 
close to downtown and UF, bus to SFC, car-pet & tile, pvt. patio w/locking gate, for calm, stable, mature people.1824 NW 9th St. 352 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   2-1-12-14-2
AVAILABLE NOW!! 
WALK TO UF! Nice 2BR/1BA house. $450/
mo. Call Richard 371-4367   1-30-10-2
1 BED/1 BATH. Walk to Shands/UF.
Great kitchen and bath with w/d, disposal, dishwasher. Overlooks creek and trees. Small pet ok. $535+ deposit. 352-371-9520, 352-317-2642    2-14-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420   2-15-12-20-2-2
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun-dry 372-3783    2-15-12-20-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-12-14-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $600/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   2-9-12-10-2
BOARDWALK 2/2 $500
Tennis & Pool Community
Near UF 2701 SW 13th Street
Sublet til July 31st @ $500/mo
End Unit 980 Sq. Ft. 'Carlyle"
Compare @ $699 - $759. Move in today!
Call Sharon @ 352-215-3198
2-3-12-10-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   2-29-11-27-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
              ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100              ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500              ●4/3 house 3514 nw7 pl $1500              ●4/2 house 610 nw 34 ter $1200              ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15001-31-12-5-2
Tumblin' Creek condo! remodeled 1bed-
1bath, balcony, wood floors, a/c, pantry, walk/bike to uf, pets neg. $725. per/mo. University Mgt, Inc. Lic. real estate broker 373-7904   2-7-12-10-2
**MOVE IN READY** 3/2 Condo near OAKS    
MALL New laundry rm w/ W/D. Newly reno-    vated enclosed porch. New cherry wd cab-    inets. Pool. Across from N FL Reg Med Ctr. $950./mo, + utils.  $500 sec. 352.318.4948    2-1-12-5-2
LIVE ON UF LAKE
Prestigious Bivens Arm. 5BR house, Pool, & Dock. Bike or walk to Shands & UF. Serious grad students preferred. $2500/mo. Call 619-857-9903    2-22-12-20-2
1BR/1BA Apt,. Large screened-in porch, 
W/D hook-up. Pets ok. Monthly rent $499. Sec Dep $499. Near Shands & Vet school, 3300 SW 23rd St. Apts #3. Please call 352-371-3473 leave message.       2-22-12-20-2
Trend’s Student House of the Month!
2710 NW 2nd Ave
Huge 2/2 with a Den and Fireplace!
Walking Distance to Law School
Biking Distance to UF
Text “Trend” to 313131 for More Details
Trend4Rent.com
2-24-20-2
House for rent - Large home 4BR/3BA. No 
carpet. Includes range, refrig, W/D, central air & heat. 1 block from Newberry & Royal Plaza shops. $1200/mo 407-363-7198 or cell 407-234-1380    2-3-12-5-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Ave.
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor Townhouses $525
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041 / 352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
1bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting at $475!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
One Bedroom Apartment to Sub-Lease 
Williamsburg Village Apartments Furnished or UnFurnished Flexible Availability 2 blocks south of Shands Hospital352-376-1253 ask for Val    1-31-12-5-3
3-bdrm, 3-bth, till July, $725/mnth, NO 
DEPOSIT, washer-n-dryer in unit, new car-pet, Archer Rd and 34th St. Call Scott 352-281-1057   2-2-12-5-3
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 1-30-11-20-4
Roommates needed. House 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row, near Shands, Tigert, Mid/Downtown. 4 lg BR/2BA. Students preferred! Huge, very clean home. Cent AC/H, FP , W/D, new wd flrs, DW, 5 extra closets, fenced yard, plenty of parking, on quiet street. Only $398/mo/room. Call/text Jordan 305-896-90661-31-19-4
District on 62nd: 1/1 in female 3/3 furn apt 
$407/mo, incl utils credit, cable, HS internet. Near Mall, UF & SFC, on bus rte. Move in 2/1/12 w/lease end 7/31/12. Some fees apply. Criminal background check, 352-514-2942   1-31-12-5-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
1-30-12-15-5
CONDO FOR SALE - SPARROW
3BR/2.5BA, 2-story. Approximately 1700 sq. 
ft., completely renovated. $65,000. Please call Drew 316-4465   2-10-12-20-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEWStill in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
WE PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR CELL PHONES! 
REGARDLESS OF AGE OR CONDITION EVEN IF BROKEN! TECHMODO 6450 SW ARCHER RD 352-872-5881. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK!  1-31-15-8
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
 MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
Two brand new Sealy double sized, firm mat-
tresses, bought from Sears, still in packag-ing, never used. Each cost $500 new. Make offer for one or both - call 352 337 6011.   1-31-12-5-10
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I BUY JUNK CARS
●●● TOP PRICES PAID!●●●
Call Anytime 352-443-11002-3-11-86-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
All vehicles $0 down!No credit check!!!!Cash vehicles $999 and up!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
Bring W2 and drive home today!Over 150 vehicles in stock!Cars, Trucks, SUVs, & Vans!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
92 Eagle Talon $999
94 Ford Taurus $99994 Toyota Camry $150098 Oldsmobile Intregue $1500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 Nissan Altima $6999
04 Nissan Sentra $699902 Toyota Camry $699904 Chevy Astro $6999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
98 Dodge Ram $3999
95 Chevy Blazer $399902 Chevy Blazer $499999 Dodge Durango $6999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W2 and drive home today!30 Day Warranty!No Credit Check!352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
No credit check!Cars, Trucks, SUVs & Vans30 Day Warranty352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
04 Honda Accord $7999
04 Chevy Impala $799902 Honda Odyssey $799901 Toyota Solara $7999352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
05 Dodge Durango $9999
05 Ford F150 $10,99906 Saturn Ion $11,99907 Ford Mustang $12,999352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 Dodge Neon $1999
00 Hyundai Elantra $199902 Kia Spectra $299901 Olds Alero $3999352-338-1999    4-25-65-12
94 Cadillac SLS $1999
99 Acura Integra $3999099 Buick Century $399995 Chevy Camero $2500352-338-1999    4-25-65-12
97 Ford Explorer $1999
97 Landrover Discovery $299998 Chevy Venture $299998 Chevy Astro $3999352-338-1999    4-25-65-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
12, ALLIGATOR § MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
Sexy Shopper's Needed
THE LINGERIE COMPANY
Oaks Mall Plaza            2-3-5-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   1-31-12-27-14
TUTORS FOR SPRING 1-on-1 tutoring at-
risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net1-31-12-15-14
A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
DOMINOS PIZZA NOW HIRING
Closing Drivers.$100/night Guaranteed.Apply at gatordominos.com    2-24-12-30-14●●● FEMALE SMOKERS! ●●●
Do you want to quit smoking? Female
smokers needed to participate in a smokingcessation study. You may be compensated.Call UF Smoking Lab & Clinic (352) 870-6509 or email: ufsmokelabclinic@gmail.com2-20-20-14
Personal/Office Asst. Clerical/Office duties 
Proficient in Office 20 hrs M-F Must own ve-hicle laptop and cell phone Scheduling flex-ible Respond to Melissazblack@gmail.com with cover letter and resume Compensation tbd   1-31-5-14
Equipment Recovery Technicians Needed
We are currently seeking equipment recovery techs who can work evenings and Saturdays living within 30 mile radius of Gainesville or Ocala. Candidates must have reliable trans-portation, cell phone and a computer with internet access. Needs to be able to pass background check, drug screen and have a valid drivers license and insurance. For more information please contact Jay Erickson at jay@universalcollectionsystems.com.   2-1-5-14
Part time help needed at Horse farm. 
Afternoon and weekend hours available. Duties include feeding, cleaning stalls, turning out horses, and general barn work. Previous experience required. Please emailrachel@starquarry.com   1-30-3-14
Warehouse Runners Needed!
Ben Hill Griffin StadiumApply M-F 8 AM - 4 PMConcessions Ofc @ Gate 185 Part-Time positions available    2-3-6-14
Need sweet sitter and household assistant
for two kids, afternoons M - F. $10/hour.
We pay all taxes and will withhold at your
requested rate. Email gville_mom@cox.net
for more info.
1-30-12-2-14
F/T legal admin assistant for busy law firm. 
Excellent writing, problem solving and people skills. Organized and dependable. Spanish speaking a plus. Pay DOE. Call (352) 371-4000.    2-9-12-10-14
Office asst. needed
Mon. & Sat. 10/hr.
Apply @ Eyecare Express 39th ave & 13th st.    2-2-12-5-14
PT K9 camp counselor. Requires safely 
handling groups of off leash dogs, excellent customer service, daily cleaning. Experience working with animals beside your own pre-ferred. Apply in person at 3749 SW 42nd ave. Info call (352) 376-9544   1-31-12-3-14
Assistant manager for doggie daycare. 
Responsible for employee management, administrative work, customer care, and also help handle group of 20+ dogs, daily clean-ing. Must have experience working in pet care industry and management/supervisory experience. Apply in person at Camp Marlin Doggie Daycare 3749 SW 42nd Ave. Info call (352) 376-9544    1-31-12-3-14
New social networking iPhone application 
seeks campus rep to spearhead local promo-tion and marketing efforts. Candidates should be interested in social media, tech savvy, a pulse on the campus life, and have profes-sional pr/marketing aspirations. For more in-formation contact info@1111wish.com2-1-12-3-14
Smokers aneeded to participate in a study 
conducted by the UF Smoking Lab & Clinic assessing the effects of exercise on crav-ings, withdrawal and mood. Compensation provided. Call 336-406-3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com   1-31-2-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for spring! 
Afterschool, Aquatics, Gymnastics, Office, 
Rockwall, Cheer, Dance, Clean/Maint., Drivers, 
wknd hrs at Comm. Events. Must submit app: 
www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.html. Email 
HR@suncountrysports.com for info.
2-3-12-5-14IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
AAA Courier Express
Provide All Delivery Needs
Bonded and Insured 352-339-5158    2-29-12-33-15
HOUSE SITTER AVAILABLE
Responsible, 50 year-old male, non-smok-er, non-drinker. No pets, but likes them. References avaiilable. Call 914-282-4921    2-1-12-5-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Gainesville Equestrian facility, Cheney Walk 
Farm, now has limited Full or Training Board available. We also have a trainer available who is currently training two Olympic level Pentathletes.Full board starts at $600.00 per month. For more info call: Sandy - 352-494-1710 or visit: www.cheneywalkfarm.com.   1-31-12-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND: KEYS
Behind Garden Grill - Midtown. Call to iden-tify 352-278-1595    2-1-3-25THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   2-15-12-25-16
Strip Tease AerobicsTHE LINGERIE COMPANY
Oaks Mall Plaza        2-3-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Best religion? NO religion!
Get to know your Creator.See why the Bible is unique.Your creator's love for you.You Tube: "Eric Ludy - The Gospel" (11:27)   2-9-12-10-18
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop Monday - Thursday, 1/30 – 2/2.  Verbal on M, W 5-7 pm, Math on T,R 5-7 pm.   To register and learn the room location, go to the TC website www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, and click on “Study Skills & GRE Workshop.”   1-30-5-20
LEARN TO POLE DANCE
THE LINGERIE COMPANYFREE Intro classThis Thurs Only. 6 PMCall for details 335-4814      2-2-4-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Florida’s Weapons 
Who is the Gators’ most feared shooting threat? Vote online at 
alligatorSports.org.Frank Carleton led Florida’s 
men’s tennis team to an ITA Indoor National berth after defeating his former team Sunday. See story, page 14. 
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
Whenever Erik Murphy sets 
a screen for one of his fellow big 
men and fades back behind the 3-point arc, he presents a dilem-ma for opposing defenders. 
They can stay back and help 
their teammates prevent a power -
ful dunk from center Patric Young or a high-percentage shot from fellow sophomore Will Yeguete. 
Or they can trail the 6-foot-10 
Murphy out to the perimeter and hope their defense can handle the Gators in the paint. 
On Saturday afternoon at the 
O’Connell Center, Mississippi State forwards like Arnett Moul-trie made the wrong choice more often than not in a 69-57 Bulldogs loss.
Murphy, a junior forward, hit 
a game-high 4 of 7 shots from 3-point range and scored 14 points to help springboard No. 14 Florida to its fifth straight South-eastern Conference victory.
“A lot times, guys are running 
at [Murphy] and he’s able to get it off,” coach Billy Donovan said. 
“Moultrie is getting caught 
in-between like, ‘OK, do I got to help on Patric Young rolling to the basket with Murphy standing over here?’”
While Young scored 10 points 
in the second half and Yeguete wreaked havoc defensively with two steals, a block and a pair of drawn charges, it was Murphy who drew the most praise from Mississippi State coach Rick Stansbury following the game.
Though Murphy was a 40-per -
cent 3-point shooter last year, he only attempted 30 shots. This season, he has already made 33 threes, leading Stansbury to de-scribe Murphy as the player who alters the way teams traditionally guard the Gators.
“Last year, he’s on this roster; 
he’s no factor,” Stansbury said. “Ya’ll know that, he was no fac-tor. Right now? Shoot. He’s the one guy (who) now changes their team totally. … He is the one guy who is difficult to defend. He stretches you out. He is the fourth guy out there who can re-ally shoot the basketball and he stepped up tonight.”
In a game in which UF failed to 
make a free throw until 1:13 left to play and only had two points from leading scorer Kenny Boyn-ton, a confident Murphy helped salvage Florida’s outside shoot-ing. 
Boynton was held without 
a 3-pointer for just the second time this season and senior point guard Erving Walker shot 1 of 5 from three  before hitting his sec-
ond with 10 seconds left to play.
Murphy’s four 3-pointers 
pushed the Gators into double-
digit threes for the 15th time this season and improved his shoot-ing percentage from three to 48.5 
Aundre Larrow / Alligator
Florida forward Erik Murphy scored 14 points on 4-of-7 shooting from 
3-point range in Saturday’s 69-57 win against Mississippi State.
Murphy draws praise as gamechanger
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Preston Tucker could be 
leading an entirely different 
life.
As an unseasonably warm 
late January sun shines over a slightly renovated McKethan Stadium, Florida’s primary right fielder is prepping for his senior year with a smile and a youthful sense of enjoy-ment. 
“I like it here,” he said. “It’s 
fun.”
Toward the end of his ju-
nior season, there were no guarantees he had any days like this left. 
In June, Tucker was drafted 
in the 16th round of the Ma-jor League Baseball first-year player draft. 
Even though Baseball 
America listed him as the draft’s No. 167 overall pros-pect, the 21-year-old who went undrafted out of Tampa Plant High fell all the way to the Colorado Rockies with pick No. 498. 
Still, the opportunity was 
there: a major-league contract, a chance to capture a lifelong 
dream. 
“It was 
very tough,” Tucker said of the deci-sion. 
“Getting 
to play for a professional 
team is always exciting, but getting to play here is pretty cool, too.”
On Aug. 16 — 49 days after 
watching Florida’s national championship hopes collapse at the hands of South Carolina Florida gets boost 
from Tucker’s return
women’s bAsketbALL
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
Down by one point with five 
seconds remaining in regulation, 
Jaterra Bonds went to the charity stripe with a chance to escape.
Reeling from a 13-1 Arkan-
sas run, Florida needed just two made free throws to regain the lead it held by 10 points a mere four minutes before.
However, Bonds made just 
one of her two attempts, sending the game into overtime.
Bond’s trip to the free-throw 
line was a critical example of the Gators’ charity-stripe woes in a 73-72 double-overtime loss to the Razorbacks (16-5, 5-4 Southeast-ern Conference) in Fayetteville, Ark., on Sunday.
Florida’s double-digit advan-
tage unraveled down the stretch due to an abysmal performance from the free-throw line.
The Gators (13-8, 3-5 SEC) made just 11 free throws in 25 at-tempts, including a brutal 5-of-11 mark in the second half followed by a 6-of-12 effort in overtime.
“It’s just a colossal disappoint-
ment to play so well for so long … and then to not step up and hit free throws,” coach Amanda But-ler said. “We could have seem-ingly won comfortably if you look at the free-throw stats.”
Poor free-throw shooting was 
a problem that not even leading scorer Lanita Bartley could avoid. Bartley led Florida with 19 points on 6-of-7 shooting, but made just 4 of 8 free-throw tries in the game. 
A team spokesman declined to 
make Bartley or any players avail-able for comment following the loss. 
The last time Bartley scored 
in double digits — an 82-73 win against Charlotte on Nov. 26 — she put up 28 points aided by a 9-of-9 clip from the charity stripe.Free-throw woes lead to 
yet another close UF losssee HooPs, PA ge 14
see bAsebALL, PA ge 15
see w -HooPs, PA ge 14“I’ve always been pretty 
confident in my shot, but 
right now it’s falling a little 
bit, so it feels good.”
Erik Murphy
UF forwardLeads SEC from three
tucker
Poll Results
Has Patric Young lived up to 
expectations?71% Yes
29% no
75 total votes“[Bartley]’s a senior, she just came ready to play,” 
assistant coach Murriel Page said. ”She did all she 
could, but she’s just one player.”
Faring best from the line was Azania Stewart, who 
scored half of her eight points on free throws.
Stewart, who also grabbed four rebounds and re-
corded two blocks, was the only Gator to make two free throws in succession, doing so twice.
Aside from Bartley and Stewart, Florida struggled 
to get to the free-throw line, let alone make the shots once they got there.
The rest of the team managed 11 combined at-
tempts, scoring just three points. 
“Whenever you’re on the road and when you 
have free throws, those are the shots that you have to make,” Page said. “We just couldn’t make those shots.” 
A lone bright spot for Florida was its bench, which 
outscored Arkansas’s reserves 38-10.
The offensive outburst was largely a result of usual 
starters Bartley and Jennifer George, who combined for 28 points, starting the game on the sideline.
“That was one of our goals for our bench to out-
play their bench in every way and we certainly did that,” Butler said.
Other statistical leaders for Florida were Bonds 
with four assists, George with nine rebounds, and Bartley with five steals.
With Sunday’s win, Arkansas dealt Florida its fifth 
loss by six points or fewer in SEC play.
Trailing No. 6 Kentucky by 5.5 games in the league 
standings, UF is two defeats or two UK wins away from elimination in the conference championship race.
“You can’t get too upset, you’ve got to bounce 
back,” Butler said. “What’s important are the little things. We’ve got to hit free throws, we’ve got to take care of the basketball, we’ve got to execute. Every pos-session matters.”
Contact Joe Morgan at joemorgan@alligator.org.percent, which leads the SEC among players 
who average two attempts per game.
“I’m trying to be more aggressive and 
shoot whenever I’m open,” Murphy said. “I’ve always been pretty confident in my shot, but right now it’s falling a little bit, so it feels good.”
Murphy said beating 
Mississippi State, a team known for its strong post presence, without large 
offensive contributions from Boynton and Walker should put an end to dis-cussions about Florida’s frontcourt toughness.
“No, I don’t think we have a lack of 
depth,” Murphy said. “Pat’s been coming off the bench because of an injury, Will’s been playing great, Cody (Larson) steps in and plays well. 
“I mean, other guys that haven’t gotten 
a chance to play, they’re talented. They can play; they just haven’t gotten the chance, so I don’t think we have a lack of depth at all.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.
org.14, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
Aundre Larrow / Alligator
Florida point guard Jaterra Bonds missed one of two free throw with 
five seconds left in regulation to send Sunday’s game to overtime. 
men’s tennis
ELI MARGER 
Alligator Writer
Frank Carleton knew what to 
expect on Sunday against Wake 
Forest.
After all, he was a Demon Dea-
con himself just a short time ago. The junior, who transferred to UF for the fall semester, helped his new team defeat his old one. 
The No. 5 Gators (3-0) nearly 
completed their second clean sweep of the weekend, but instead settled for a 6-1 victory against No. 41 Wake Forest. Carleton’s 6-3, 6-1 win in singles helped the Gators advance to the ITA National Indoor Championship next month.
“I had to really keep my emo-
tions in check,” Carleton said. “I tried not to even talk to the guys too much before the match was finished. I kind of tried to keep to myself and focus on the Gators win-ning.”
Coach Andy Jackson also recog-
nized the challenge Carleton faced, especially mentally. 
“To play the team that you used 
to play for, psychologically, it’s very hard, very conflicted,” Jackson said. “I thought he handled himself very, very well.”
On Sunday, the Gators swept 
the doubles matches once again to take the first point. While the No. 4 team of Billy Federhofer and Nas-sim Slilam had a strong 8-3 victory, Florida’s other two teams faced 
much more resis-tance. 
The No. 25 
team of Bob van Overbeek and Andrew Butz won their match 8-5, with No. 41 Frank Carle-ton and Spencer 
Newman winning 8-6. 
Every Gator won in singles play 
except for Slilam, the team’s lone senior. Slilam missed a makeable shot on match point, giving Wake’s Danny Kreyman new life. The De-mon Deacons’ junior won the three-set match 2-6, 6-4, 1-0 (12-10). 
Although the other five Florida 
players won their respective singles matches, Jackson saw much room for improvement. Jackson said the team needs to work on controlling its emotions heading into a match with No. 2 Virginia this weekend. 
“We have to be a little bit better 
attacking second serves, not overre-acting so much in the matches when we make a few mistakes,” Jackson said. “When we get ahead, we’re a little too happy, and when we’re be-hind, we’re a little bit too upset.”Van Overbeek, playing against 
the hard-serving David Hoskins, put on an emotional display in his two-set match. The junior shouted between points, flailing his arms in disgust after the ones he lost. Nev-ertheless, he defeated Hoskins 7-6 (3), 6-4.
Carleton, Federhofer, Newman 
and Florent Diep all won their matches in straight sets. 
“We are very pleased and excit-
ed to get to go to the national team Indoor,” Jackson said. “(It is) some-thing that is very important to our program … so that we are better prepared for the SEC, SEC Tourna-ment, and NCAA.”
Carleton beats former team; Gators qualify for ITA Indoors
Butler: Bench dominates in one-point loss
W-HOOPs , from page 13
HOOPs , from page 13Murphy: Florida 
frontcourt does not lack depth
murphy
Carleton
 MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 15
Alligator File Photo
Junior right fielder Preston Tucker (25) decided to return to the Gators after being se-
lected by the Colorado Rockies in June’s MLB draft. He is seven RBI shy of a UF record. 
Tucker on verge of UF records
— he decided to spend the spring of 2012 
in Gainesville playing out his senior season instead of crossing the rural environs of the Northwest League, South Atlantic League or the California League on mind-numbing minor league bus rides. 
Tucker dragged his decision out to the 
final day drafted players could sign with an MLB club, and the wait was something Gators coach Kevin O’Sullivan had no con-trol over. 
“You’ve got to let the process work its 
way out,” he said. “We certainly hoped he would come back, but it was a process that Preston and his family needed to go through. Lucky enough for us, he came back.”
With Tucker returning, Florida gets the 
services of one of the best hitters in school history. 
He will enter the season needing just 
seven RBI to pass Brad Wilkerson’s school record of 214. 
Tucker led the Gators in RBI (74), runs 
(55), walks (28) and tied the UF record for doubles (23) as a junior. 
However, his 2011 was a microcosm of 
Florida’s season. After batting .308 during the regular season, Tucker hit .227 at the College World Series, including a 1-for-8 rut as the Gamecocks swept the Gators in the best-of-three finals. All of this brings up the inevitable ques-
tion: Would Tucker still be at Florida if the Gators exited Omaha, Neb., as national champions?
“That’s a good question,” Tucker said. “I 
don’t know. 
“It was a big factor when I came back, 
knowing that we could have done a little bit better and that there were a few things we could have done right that we didn’t do right.”
He also said a college degree and the idea 
that this year’s preseason No. 1 team could be even better than last year’s preseason No. 1 team played a major role in his deci-sion, but the notion of unfinished business and a dissatisfaction with his draft situation seem to reign supreme. 
Regardless of why Tucker came to his 
final decision, O’Sullivan is happy to look out toward McKethan Stadium’s new right-field videoboard and see a familiar No. 25.
“There was a huge smile on my face 
(when Tucker decided to return),” he said. “To get back a guy that you can plug into the middle of the order and solidify things, it was certainly a huge lift for us.”BASEBALL , from page 13
“To get back a guy that you can 
plug into the middle of the order 
and solidify things, it was certainly 
a huge lift for us.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF coach16, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 2012
oral commits
2012
- All rankings and photos from Rivals.com
- Oral commitments are nonbinding until a national letter of intent is signed on or after National Signing Day on Feb. 1.With National Signing Day fast approaching, alligatorSports will preview the oral com-mitments the Gators have received thus far and give you some targets to watch during Wednesday’s announcements. Today, we take a look at UF’s offensive commits.
D.J. 
Humphries6-foot-5, 265 pounds
Position:  Offensive guard
High school:  Charlotte, 
N.C., Mallard Creek 
Also considered:
Tennessee, Auburn 
Recruited by:  Frank 
Verducci
This guy is a pure athlete — he moves like an end, 
displaying solid footwork and agility. Easily oneof Florida’s most highly touted and important 2012 grabs, Humphries will be able to take advantage ofan early enrollment to bulk up and compete for a starting position come fall. If he can put on the weight, Florida should be able to employ Humphries on a unit that experienced a less-than-stellar season in 2011.
Skyler 
Mornhinweg6-foot-3, 215 pounds
Position: Quarterback
High school:  Philadelphia, 
Pa., St. Joseph’s
Also considered:  Penn 
State, Stanford, Tennessee
Recruited by:  Brent Pease
Florida previously had not pursued a quarterback 
until new offensive coordinator Brent Pease took the reins, so most were surprised by the sudden push for Mornhinweg. He will remain a bit of a project as he develops into a better pocket passer, but he has an advantage as a coach’s son who has grown up in the sport. Mornhinweg is also noted for his quick, consistent delivery from both under center and out of shotgun formation.
Kent 
Taylor6-foot-5, 220 pounds
Position:  Tight end
High school:  Land O’ 
Lakes
Also considered:  LSU, 
Alabama, Penn State, 
Georgia, FSU
Recruited by:  Charlie Weis, 
Derek Lewis
Taylor is a great pass-catching tight end, but needs 
to signiﬁ  cantly bulk up his relatively leaner, longerbuild. His blocking skills aren’t as sharp, but because the departure of tight end GeraldChristian, the Gators may want to rely on a tight end who is more of a blocking threat than a pass-catching weapon.
 Jessamen 
Dunker6-foot-6, 315 pounds
Position:  Offensive lineman
High school:  Boynton 
Beach
Also considered : Auburn, 
FSU, Georgia, Alabama, 
LSU, Miami
Recruited by : Aubrey Hill
Dunker has a solid chance at playing time freshman 
year, especially given Florida’s woes on the offensive line in 2011. Enrolling early was a good decision for him; it will give him the opportunity to better learn and develop technique after playing at a smaller-proﬁ  le school. With a 315-pound frame, bulking up isn’t an issue for Dunker, so he seems to have a legitimate chance to contribute immediately in 2012.
Matt 
Jones6-foot-3, 225 pounds
Position: Running back
High school : Seffner 
Armwood 
Also considered:  Auburn, 
Alabama, Georgia, Oregon, 
Southern Cal, Notre Dame 
Recruited by:  Brian White, 
Derek Lewis
Jones has the size to be a durable back, but 
doesn’t always use it to his advantage. Although not as physical as he could be, Jones has lots of potential. The Gators need another option with just Mike Gillislee and Mack Brown left on the roster as true running backs. However, Jones’ development is questionable, especially after injury troubles throughout his senior season at Seffner Armwood, with a meniscus tear and knee surgery.
Latroy 
Pittman6-foot-1, 190 pounds
Position: Wide receiver
High school: Citra North 
Marion
Also considered:  FSU, 
Notre Dame, Georgia, 
Alabama
Recruited by:  N/A
Pittman doesn’t display elite speed and won’t be 
Florida’s biggest highlight-ready playmaker anytimesoon, but he is an essential addition to this class. He muscles his way through routes and can be elusive. The ﬁ  rst commit of the 2012 class back in August 2010, Pittman has also enrolled early, which could give him an advantage.
Colin 
Thompson6-foot-5, 255 pounds
Position : Tight end
High school:  Warminster, 
Pa., Archbishop Wood 
Catholic
Also considered : 
Wisconsin, Boston College
Recruited by: Charlie Weis, 
Derek Lewis
Where Taylor is primarily a pass-catching tight end, 
Thompson is a talented blocker. Thompson also hasgreat hands and is a physically well-rounded player. His build is college-ready and he has the skill set tocompete for immediate playing time, especially given his blocking ability, something Florida could use on the line of scrimmage.
Austin 
Hardin5-foot-11, 200 pounds
Position:  Kicker
High school: Atlanta, Ga., 
Marist School
 Also considered:  Auburn, 
Tennessee 
Recruited by :N/A
Hardin garnered a lot of attention after he secured 
a playoff berth for his high school with a 59-yard ﬁ  eld goal in 2010, but received criticism for a poor Under Armour All-America game performance.Regardless, Hardin will likely see playing time next year handling kick-offs, while Caleb Sturgis remains on ﬁ  eld-goal duty. offense
Natalie Teer / Alligator Staff