VOLUME 106 ISSUE 78 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
UF College Republicans to host mock election
The event is tonight at 5 p.m. in the Reitz Union, pg 3.  
Alligator to hold open house Friday
Interested students can come by from noon to 3 p.m., pg 6. 
75/44Fans of comedy 
supported Louis C.K.’s 
latest special for sale 
online. See story, page 9.
Fans of comedy 
supported Louis C.K.’s 
latest special for sale 
online. See story, page 9.
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6the AVENUE 8CLASSIFIEDS 13
CROSSWORD  15SPORTS 17Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
A ﬁ  reﬁ  ghter hoses down Union Road after a chemical reactant explosion at Sisler Hall on Wednesday evening.
� THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED ON THE SECOND 
FLOOR OF SISLER HALL.
JON SILMAN and JOEY FLECHAS
Alligator Staff Writers
A chemical reactant explosion at Sisler Hall injured a 
student and shut down trafﬁ  c around 5:50 p.m. Wednes-
day, and authorities said the building will be closed all day today for cleanup.
Gainesville Fire Rescue Department Chief Gene Prince 
said a student, whose name was not released, was work-ing alone in a lab on the second ﬂ  oor “under a protective hood” when the explosion occurred.
“Nobody knows yet what he was doing speciﬁ  cally 
that could have caused the reaction,” Prince said. “We think it was less than 200 mLs [of the chemical].”
Paramedics transported the student to Shands at UF 
to be treated for burns, Prince said. Two paramedics with him were treated after being exposed to the chemi-cal while aiding the student.
After the explosion, a GFR hazardous materials unit 
set up a makeshift bathing station in front of Sisler Hall where Student hurt  
after explosionin chemistry lab 
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Staff Writer
As a downpour slowed, the sun 
shone just in time for a ribbon-cutting 
ceremony at the Florida Innovation Hub at UF. Some took the weather as a sign of Gainesville’s bright economic future.
About 300 people attended the In-
novation Hub dedication ceremony Wednesday afternoon under a white tent beside the building, including U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson, UF President Bernie Machen and other UF, city and federal ofﬁ  cials.
“It is rare to experience an occasion 
that feels so historic,” Machen said to a crowd. “This is a historic landmark for the community, state and human fu-ture.”
Ofﬁ  cials spoke for about an hour. Af-
ter, people toured the Innovation Hub and saw some of the start-up businesses housed in the building.
Innovation Hub is the brainchild of 
UF and the city government, Mayor Craig Lowe said.
Located at 747 SW Second Ave., it is 
a 48,000-square-foot business incubator designed to house start-up companies Innovation Hub opens 
doors to entrepreneursENVIRONMENT
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
After about 30 years of city resident 
health concerns, the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency has approved a plan to test dust contamination levels in houses near the Cabot-Koppers Superfund site.
In April 2010, seven Gainesville residents 
who lived near the plant ﬁ  led a federal class-action suit against the companies that once operated on the site. 
Cabot Inc. and Koppers Inc. once oper-
ated the plant. Koppers Inc. sold its facility to Beazer East Inc. in 2009.
The neighbors’ lawyers had the homes 
tested for dioxin, a toxic chemical and car-cinogen commonly released during wood-treatment processes like those performed at the Koppers plant.
Test results showed the chemical was 
present in high levels inside homes around the site. The suit was dismissed in January 2011 at the request of the seven residents. 
A work group headed by the Florida 
Department of Health, which included lo-cal, state and federal environmental and health experts, began developing the plan in fall 2010 after the test results surfaced, said Chris Bird, director of the Alachua County 
Environmental Protection Department who helped formulate the plan.
He said the tests will 
cost the EPA at least $100,000. 
Bird said the test re-
sults from the suit could be faulty because they were not conﬁ  rmed by a 
government agency.
The ﬁ  nal indoor dust dioxin test plan was 
submitted to the EPA in late July. In Octo-ber, the Alachua County Commission wrote EPA approves plan to test 
Koppers Superfund site
SEE INNOVATION, PAGE 4DeLaney
“This is a historic landmark for 
the community, state and human 
future.”
Bernie Machen
UF president
SEE SUPERFUND, PAGE 4SEE EXPLOSION, PAGE 4
Pease hired as new offensive coordinator:
Coach Will Muschamp called the hire a ‘great ﬁ  t, 
saying players will beneﬁ  t from his 21 years of coaching experience, pg. 17. News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 78 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Josh Isom, jisom@alligator.org
 Assistant Online Editor Marissa Prieto, mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, jmorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Josh Isom
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Tom Green, Phil Kegler, Greg Luca,   
  Corey McCall, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Karly Kehres, Nika Zecevic 
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager Victoria Livingston, 
  vlivingston@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Angela Hunter,
  Michael Jimenez, Sarah Platt, 
  Brandon Stern, Kristen Strobel,   
  Courtney Sutherland
     
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks Ashley Flattery, William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolt
on, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
Career Resource Center’s 
Hawaiian Winter Open 
HouseToday, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.Career Resource Center, First Floor, Reitz UnionThe event will provide in-formation about the range of services the CRC offers to UF students and faculty. There will also be three mini sessions about career planning for visi-tors to attend throughout the afternoon. In addition, stu-dents who bring their resumes can have them critiqued on the spot. Refreshments will be served.
Museum Nights / European 
Nights
Tonight, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.Harn Museum of ArtEnjoy a free evening of ac-tivities at the Harn celebrat-ing traditional and modern cultures of Europe through music, dance and art. Match wits in a European history, art and culture quiz panel. Enjoy an Irish musical per -
formance by Fear Buile. View art, dance, play games and make silhouettes. Hear Czech and Catalan poetry. Eat and drink.
Wildlife Society Meeting
Tuesday, 5:15 p.m.Newins-Ziegler Hall, Room 112The UF chapter of The Wildlife Society will be host-ing its first general body meeting of the semester. Come find out about oppor -
tunities in wildlife conserva-tion, animal identification, outdoor skill development and network with profes-sionals in wildlife-related careers.
Mainstage: A Night of ‘Art’
Friday and Saturday, 8 p.m.The Constans TheatreTheater Strike Force pres-ents a show that will feature long- and short-form improv, sketch performances and No Southern Accent. The shows are free and will be different each night. 
College of Medicine Project 
HEAL 5K for HealingSunday, 8:30amParking lot opposite Southwest Recreation CenterRegistration begins at 7:15 a.m. and costs $20. All pro-ceeds go toward providing free acute and preventative health care, as well as public health education to thousands of Ecuadorian citizens with no other accessible source of medical aid. To learn more, visit the website at http://projectheal.sites.medinfo.ufl.edu/5k-for-healing/.cause the driver was agitated.
The attendant says the man 
was obviously relieved when police drove past the station.
But officers drove around the 
back and cornered the suspect. Police say he tried to drive away but crashed the stolen Honda Civic into a light post.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Snow-weary Alaska town orders 
more shovels
ANCHORAGE, Alaska —
When you’re trying to clear 
nearly 15 feet of snow, a regular shovel just isn’t going to cut it.
As residents in the fishing town 
of Cordova and 57 Alaska Nation-al Guard members tried to dig out, they learned that they didn’t have the right tool for the job.
There were plenty of regular 
shovels around. But what they needed was a larger version with a scoop that can push a cubic foot of snow or better at a time.
“We will be shipping 72 shov-
els to Alaska by plane tomorrow to help,” said Genevieve Gagne, product manager at the shovel’s maker, Quebec, Canada-based Ga-rant.
The new shovels cost about 
$50 each, and the city is paying for them with its emergency funds.
Since Nov . 1, storms have 
dropped 176 inches of snow and more than 44 inches of rain on the town, about 150 miles southwest of Anchorage.
Temperatures warmed over -
night, and residents awoke to standing water because of stopped-up drains. The rain also made the existing snow heavier.
The warmer temperatures — 
about 35 degrees midday Wednes-day — brought another hazard to the Prince William Sound com-munity of 2,200 people: avalanche danger.
There’s one road leading out, 
and it was closed though it could be opened for emergency vehi-cles.
So far, four commercial build-
ings and two homes have been damaged from snow accumula-tion on roofs. A 24-unit apartment complex also had to be evacuated.
The short-term forecast doesn’t 
hold any good news. There’s more snow on the way, another 5-7 inch-es of it.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESSGot something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the pa-per. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
inteRnatiOnaL
Thai official’s behavior at 
airport causes uproar
BANGKOK — A Thai cus-
toms official has been demot-
ed over a YouTube video that shows him hitting an airport security officer while refusing to be patted down.
Footage from a surveil-
lance camera at Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi airport shows the official striding through a security check, fiercely object-ing to being searched and then whacking the officer’s ears. The official then pointed to his badge and the junior officer bowed apologetically.
The video has a Sunday 
time stamp and was posted Monday. By Tuesday it had at-tracted more than 5,000 angry comments.
Customs Department di-
rector-general Somchai Pool-savasdi said the official was transferred to an office job during an investigation into his “distressing” behavior. The department released only the official’s first name, Som-bat.
— THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
natiOnaL
Alleged carjacker arrested 
when he stops for gas
COOS BAY, Ore. — An al-
leged carjacker in Oregon cer -
tainly didn’t check the fuel 
gauge on the car he’s accused of taking from a grocery store parking lot.
Officers in Coos Bay quick-
ly arrested the man when he stopped a few miles away to buy gas.
Authorities say the man 
threw a woman out of the car Tuesday and sped off. The World of Coos Bay reports (http://bit.ly/xNh0Id) the man pulled into a gas station and asked to pay cash, but the attendant was suspicious be-PARTLY
CLOUDY
68/44PARTLY
CLOUDY
65/37PARTLY
CLOUDY
61/33PARTLY
CLOUDY
60/38PARTLY
CLOUDY
75/44MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
Politics
SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Writer
Most UF students see themselves 
as Gators, but members of one 
group identify with an elephant. 
With the Republican presiden-
tial primaries under way , the UF College Republicans are bringing the issues a little closer to home for students. The club is holding mock elections tonight at 5 p.m. in Room 355 at the Reitz Union, said Katy Melchiorre, the club’s vice chair. This will be the first meeting of the semester.
As a group, the club will not en-
dorse any one nominee, but mem-bers will discuss the pros and cons of each candidate. 
“We have a bunch of individu-
als who support Romney’s, Santo-rum’s and Paul’s campaigns,” said Matt Pesek, public relations officer for College Republicans. 
Pesek, a 19-year-old religion and 
political science sophomore, said during the meeting the members will discuss the results from the Iowa caucus and the New Hamp-shire primary. They will also dis-cuss why some former candidates dropped out of the race, he said. 
In the Iowa Republican Caucus, 
former Massachusetts Gov . Mitt Romney beat out former Pennsyl-vania Sen. Rick Santorum. Romney also pulled in the most votes in the New Hampshire primary, with Tex-as Rep. Ron Paul coming in second. 
Club president Ryan Garcia, a 
21-year-old economics and history junior, said he was not surprised by the Iowa caucus results. 
“It went as expected,” he said. 
“But I was surprised at how close the margin was between the candi-dates.”  
Throughout the semester, the 
College Republicans will be hold-ing events related to the primaries. Melchiorre, a 20-year-old political science and telecommunications junior, said club members will set up a table on the Reitz Union North Lawn on Jan. 31, the day of the Flor -ida primaries. They will have infor -
mation about each candidate and will encourage registered Republi-cans to vote, she wrote in an email.
“Every election year we’re al-
ways really busy ,” Pesek said. 
The group encourages individu-
als to work on campaigns for their candidates until one is chosen. 
Pesek said the club will not hold 
a debate because the members don’t want to spark a conflict.
“We are all Republicans,” he 
said. 
College Republicans to hold mock election, discuss candidatestwo letters to President Barack Obama 
and one to the EPA, urging it to approve and begin the testing.
“From the human plight of those liv-
ing near the site, this is a very important step,” said Paula DeLaney , Alachua County commissioner. “But part of our responsibility is to keep pushing and keep pressing these issues.” 
The EPA sent out approximately 
400 letters this week to tenants around the site, located off Northwest 23rd Av-enue, asking permission to collect dust samples from their homes, according to a press release.
Thirty homes will be chosen, 15 of 
which will be close to the plant. The oth-er 15 will be about two miles away. 
Dust will be collected from each home 
starting in March. Dioxin levels will then be compared between the closer houses and the houses that are farther away.
Unlike with soil and water, there is 
no state or federal acceptable standard of dioxin in dust, said Stephen Roberts, director of the UF Center for Environ-mental and Human Toxicology , who also worked on the plan.
“There is no clarity as to how high 
dioxin levels must go to predictably pro-duce health effects,” Roberts said. “It is a controversial issue in science.”
Scientists, researchers and officials 
are depending on a significant difference in dioxin levels between homes neigh-boring the plant and those farther away to show the impact of the site’s contami-nants.
Some residents near the Superfund 
site are happy the EPA decided to con-duct the tests. However, because of false information given to them in the past by government agencies, some are still skeptical.
“I applaud them for doing some-
thing, but this is a very small step,” said Maria Parsons, a resident who lives three blocks from the site. “I will be watching and analyzing what they’re doing every step of the way.”4, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Silver Spray 
Winston Cunningham, 17, gets his hair sprayed silver by Chris Shepherd, 17, to complete his robot en-
semble for a performance at the dedication ceremony for the Florida Innovation Hub at UF. Both teens are a part of the P.K. Yonge vocal ensemble.
SUPERFUND , from page 1EPA will test for toxins in 
dust from 30 homes in areaSixteen businesses currently 
housed in Innovation Hub
grown out of technology developed at UF 
and around the state. 
The site also includes offices of venture 
capitalists, law firms, design firms and other entities that offer services to start-up com-panies. 
The building currently houses 16 busi-
nesses and is almost half-full, said Jane Muir, director of the Innovation Hub and another speaker at the event. Businesses began mov-ing into the building in October.
The atrium of Innovation Hub holds 
a two-story wall design sitting above the main desk. The blueish-green illustration, resembling the depths of the ocean, is meant to symbolize new discoveries, according to those working in the atrium.
Lowe, who spoke at the event, said the 
Innovation Hub represents a spirit of part-nership between the public and private sec-tors. He said it will help creative ideas and businesses flourish in Gainesville.
“This will be the anchor for an employ-
ment renaissance,” Lowe said. 
Nelson, who also spoke, said he looks 
forward to the building being a workspace for “imagineers.” He said the ideas and products created there will benefit the entire nation as it competes in a global economy.
“Great ideas produce great products. 
Great products create economic diversity. Economic diversity produces jobs,” Nelson said. “That’s what this incubator is about to do.”
Some offices are filled with college stu-
dents trying to get their businesses off the ground while others are home to business veterans.
John Everett, CEO of Apollidon, an on-
line business dedicated to worldwide marketing and student recruitment for dis-tance education master’s 
degrees, has been working as a business strategist for 25 years. 
Across the way from 
the Apollidon office at the Innovation Hub is Feathr, 
a company started by current UF students that creates applications for smartphones.
Neal Ormsbee, a 21-year-old computer 
science junior, helped start the company. He said it is inspiring to work at a place like the Innovation Hub. 
“The other day we were running our 
business from a ping-pong table in our house; now we are here,” he said. “It’s the real deal.”INNOVATION , from page 1� ALSO A UF STUDENT, 
HE WAS CHARGED WITH    RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT VIOLENCE.
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
An off-duty security guard 
at the UF Housing Office 
was arrested early Tuesday for preventing a Gainesville police officer from helping a drunken woman outside 101 Downtown, according to a police report.
Police arrested Lucas D. 
Santos, 24, for resisting ar -
rest without violence. 
Santos said he recognized 
a tall, college-aged blonde at the bar. The two knew each other, he said, but they weren’t friends. 
They met once “a long 
time ago” standing in line at Pollo Tropical in the Reitz Union. 
Santos said the two hit it 
off at the bar, but the woman was too drunk to walk as they were leaving around 2 a.m. 
He said he guided her out-
side, and they sat together on a curb on Southeast Second Street.
According to the police 
report, the bar’s security staff told officer James Franklin that the woman was drunk and could not speak or walk.
Franklin asked the girl 
who she was while paramed-ics made sure she was OK.
Santos then walked in 
front of the officer and tried to talk to the girl.  
Franklin told Santos he 
needed to leave so they could help her, but accord-ing to the report, Santos kept interrupting. 
After telling Santos to go 
away about five times, Frank-lin arrested him and put him in the back of a patrol car. 
Franklin then returned 
to the woman, who was not identified in the report.
Santos is a senior nuclear 
engineering major and said he’s been a security guard at the UF Housing Office for about a year.UF Housing Office   
security guard     arrested downtown
Sisler Hall will be closed all day today
the team hosed people down outside the building. 
Police blocked off the surrounding traffic area, which created a backlog of about seven city buses waiting to pass the corner of Union Road and Buckman Drive.
UF officials were on the scene to help evaluate the 
situation.
Brittany Garner, a 19-year-old psychology sopho-
more, was in a group of students who waited on the corner and found out her General Chemistry class was canceled.
“It has to be an upper-level class,” she said, “be-
cause our labs don’t start until next week.”
According to UPD, after the hazmat unit cleared 
the lab, they could not determine the exact type and quantity of the chemicals, so the team decided to close Sisler Hall for “at least an additional day to complete the decontamination and cleaning of the hall.”EXPLOSION , from page 1
Machen
“From the human plight of 
those living near the site, this 
is a very important step.”
Paula DeLaney
Alachua County commissionerReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialTHURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITORToday’s question: Are UF students trained well enough 
to be safe in chemistry labs?
55 TOTAL VOTES20% YES
80% NOWednesday’s question: Do you think the Student Senate has done enough to          improve the election process?Join Us
Alligator to hold 
open house Friday
The time has come again for your friendly neighborhood Alligator to ask for help.
This newspaper is, first and foremost, here to serve 
you, the readers. We want to deliver the best news to all stu-dents, faculty and staff, both in the newspaper you grab from our orange bins across campus and at alligator.org.
The family of students who put the Alligator together five 
nights a week has grown in the past few semesters. But as with any student-run operation, there is always room for new folks to get involved. 
If you’re majoring in journalism, have writing experience, 
know how to use a camera or just have a grammar-and-punc-tuation obsession, come to our open house Friday from noon to 3 p.m. and meet our editors. 
Trust us when we tell you that working here will give you a 
lot of invaluable experience — whether you plan on going into the scary world of journalism or not. 
We can tell you about the daily miracle of putting out a pa-
per every night, during those times when we’re neck-deep in homework, hours away from deadline and running on caffeine and cigarettes. Yes, it's not a very good diet, but it's worth it. 
We’re looking for sports and news reporters, copy editors, 
photographers, video journalists, video editors, audio special-ists, bloggers and writers for the Avenue. 
If you’ve got a lot of tech savvy, we’re interested. Now that 
the Alligator has officially entered the 21st century by updat-ing the look of its website and placing a renewed emphasis on breaking news, we are working on being quicker and more resourceful when it comes to gathering the news for digital delivery.
The Alligator newsroom has been quite busy over the first 
few days of the semester, and we have been fortunate enough to catch stories as they break.
With the events scheduled over the next few months around 
Gainesville and the increased emphasis on the coming political changes, we will only get busier. We would love to have you become a part of our team. 
As an added bonus, it’s pretty damn cool to be the first one 
to know what the hell is going on around here before any of your friends. 
Sounds like a pretty sweet gig, eh? This is your chance to 
find out just what it’s like to be in the news business before your college experience is over. 
If you want in, come Friday. Bring your clips, portfolios, class schedules, smiles and sun-
ny attitudes. We’re looking forward to meeting you.
We’re at 1105 W University Ave., across from the Bank of 
America. 
We’re nice people. Plus, there will be pizza.Students should enjoy the year's fresh start
’Tis the season of anticipation. Winter break was the time of wish lists and guest lists, and now, with the New Year and new semester, the campus is 
buzzing with expectation. I can’t help but feel, though, that things are often better before we have them. 
It all began with Christmas.I added items to my wish list, detailed what I wanted 
and where to get it, and shamelessly circulated all of this to my family. Finally, the day arrived. The tree — laced with cheerful lights and gaudy tinsel — was surrounded by crisply wrapped presents. Days of anticipation have fi-nally led up to this point. 
I proceeded to unwrap my gifts, place them in a pile 
and then completely forget about them — at least until the next gift-giving occasion where I will most likely re-gift the majority. This plot — anxious anticipation and the in-difference that follows — now that I have become aware of it, seems to dominate my life in more ways than I previ-ously realized. 
I see it in the eagerness with which I notice the red no-
tifications in the upper-left-hand corner of my Facebook and the speed with which I forget the ‘likes’ I’ve received. 
I feel it when the vibration of my pocket indicates a 
new text message and the speed with which I realize it was, in fact, just my hopeful imagination. 
I hear it in the cheerful ding of my microwave finishing 
and the speed with which I realize I am going to be eating leftover Five Star Pizza.
I smell it as the wafts of holiday drinks at Starbucks 
strike me at the Hub and the speed with which I realize the line is massive and I have five minutes to get to class.
I sense it in the unbearable anticipation of the newest 
Harry Potter movie, and the speed with which I grasp that I am, indeed, still a Muggle.
Disturbing quantities of my life are spent in this cycle 
of anticipation and indifference, with, sure, the occasional stop at fulfillment. What better example of the allure of anticipation than the expectation that comes with the New Year. After almost a month of break, we come back to school with a fresh semester, a fresh 365 days and a fresh start. 
More than usual, around this 
time we reflect on the past year of our lives and try to compart-mentalize and analyze what 
happened. Just throw an arbitrary date at us, give us the opportunity for renewal and we toss away our usual in-difference and resolve to change. Southwest Recreation Center is crowded with people looking to slim down or buff up. The first chapters of textbooks are over-highlight-ed in anticipation of good grades. Classes are crowded with those resolved to finally attend. Inevitably, the gym crowds wane, the highlighting abruptly stops and class at-tendance dwindles. 
I know I certainly made resolutions to which I now 
expectantly resolve to adhere. New Year’s resolutions for which I expect to go to the gym every day, expect to get straight As and expect to find love. Will these things hap-pen? Probably not. But the expectation that they will is fulfilling enough. I am satisfied telling people of my plans, hoping they will come true — at least for a short time, un-til my anticipation dissolves into inevitable indifference as new goals and new expectations enter my life. 
And so, students of UF, savor the perfection of this mo-
ment. This moment in the beginning of the semester — in which none of your resolutions are broken, all of your grades are high, when you cannot possibly get any fatter and when you haven’t yet drunk-texted your ex. 
In the meantime, have you heard about the new Hun-
ger Games movie? I heard it’s supposed to be amazing.
Garrett Bruno is a political science sophomore at UF. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Garrett Bruno
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Editorial about interior design licensing was misin-
formed 
I am very disappointed to read the misinformed ar -
ticle regarding interior design. As someone who works 
for Shands in the facilities development department I can attest to the importance of an educated and licensed inte-rior designer for commercial designs. The licensing laws have nothing to do with residential design; please check the facts before publishing. 
Paige Walker
More work needs to be done for homeless 
This letter is in response to Adrianna Paidas’ article about the requirement for police clearance imposed on the poor and homeless to be allowed to use services at St. Francis House homeless shelter and dining hall. This requirement was imposed at the same time the 130 meal limit ordinance was enacted, but the police clearance requirement was not enforced until the meal limit was lifted. For two and a half years, they were forced to turn away thousands of hungry people. 
Over the last two years, the National Coalition for the 
Homeless in Washington D.C. published its list of the “meanest” cities. Gainesville ranked fifth on this list. This limit was seen as a human rights violation. 
Fewer people are being fed now than during the time 
when the meal limit was in effect. A large number of the homeless have been charged with having an open con-tainer or sleeping in a public place. Just where are they supposed to go? This sounds like criminalization of homelessness. 
We, the citizens of Gainesville, must continue on our 
own or with others to feed the hungry children, pregnant women, veterans and people with physical and mental disabilities. 
It has been said you can tell a great deal about a soci-
ety by how it treats its most vulnerable citizens. Let’s step up and feed the hungry, destitute and homeless. We are a much better city than we are showing the world.
Pat Fitzpatrick
UF graduate
How is it that an individual such as Mitt Romney 
could not have had better luck as a presidential candidate and still struggle? In spite of multiple 
candidates reaching the apex of ratings and popularity , only Romney has endured and somehow stood above the fray. Despite this, he faces distrust among conserva-tive Republicans for his mixed record on a number of issues that define a party changed by Ronald Reagan.  
Through more than 40 years of senatorial service, 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., only faced one candi-date who came close to removing him from office. At the time, Romney supported a woman’s choice in abor -
tion, bragged about standing against Reagan’s economic policy , supported the Brady Bill on gun restriction and was against school prayer. Romney has always been a Republican, but his consistency as a conservative is questionable. 
Even in the successful gubernatorial election in 2002, 
Romney maintained some of these  viewpoints. He sup-ported maintaining the Massachusetts status quo on abortion. According to Massachusetts Institute of Tech-nology’s oldest newspaper, The Tech, Romney declared, “I will not change any provisions in Massachusetts pro-choice laws.” He now maintains his commitment to re-pealing Roe v. Wade.
On job creation, Business Insider reported that Mas-
sachusetts only averaged 1.4 percent growth during his time as governor, also supported by USA Today. The na-tional average in the time of Romney’s term was 5.3 per -
cent, and the independent think tank MassINC reported a ranking of 49th in job creation from 2001-07.
This is also excluding the health care reform signed 
in 2006. Romney now runs against a health mandate, suggesting that the “Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority” is much different than a federal health mandate. On his fiscal record, Romney at least balanced a $3-billion deficit. Part of Romney’s suc-
cess in this election has been his uninspired oppo-nents. He has always been 
the most prepared, most financially supported and had the most political networks. Yet, a Gallup poll from the GOP ballot as of Jan. 9 shows a ranking of 30 percent among likely voters. From Nov. 6 through Dec. 25, Rom-ney did not break 25 percent until after Christmas. 
When the numbers returned from the Iowa Repub-
lican Caucus, Romney bested Santorum by only eight votes. This is bewildering considering that Romney was the frontrunner for more than two years. He finally managed to have his shining moment in New Hamp-shire, dominating with 40 percent of the vote. This mo-mentum may finally carry him to the nomination, but his opponents will still continue and hammer on Rom-ney’s record.  
I still maintain that Gov . Mitch Daniels of Indiana 
would have been the best candidate for Republicans to run in 2012. He has the blessings of a strong economic policy through low unemployment and balanced bud-gets, social policies favored by conservatives, and the fact that he was a two-term governor. 
The Republican party as of the last 30 years has been 
the party of Reagan and will only embrace Romney at arm’s length. Romney is more like the former governor of New York, George Pataki. Both are moderate Repub-licans who conceded on many policies to have any influ-ence. 
Romney has been both politically savvy and clever 
to avoid drawing attention to his Mormonism, sure to draw unease from Catholics and Christian evangelicals. Romney does not have a solidified base among conser -
vative Republicans, and the albatross of his record re-mains his largest liability . 
Guillermo R. Pradieu is an English sophomore at UF.
Romney’s conservatism questionableColumn
Although I am sure 
the last thing you want to read about 
on a cold winter day is the impending end of fun as we know it, bear with me today as I play the role of Debbie Downer.
Some of you have already 
heard about the proposed bill attacking Internet rights in the United States; I hope those of you who are already aware have signed the many circulating petitions and act-ed out against it.
The bill I am referring to 
is called the Stop Online Pi-racy Act (SOPA), and  it was introduced in October by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas. Let me tell you first, this oh-so-cleverly-titled bill will not stop piracy at all.
I would like to humbly 
state that piracy is not a prob-lem. My example is one per -
son: Justin Bieber, the death of music. We are expected to pay more than a dollar for his mediocre music that becomes outdated in a day. This is nonsense, because he makes plenty of money for his work by going on tour. His fans should be able to enjoy his music for free — if you can possibly enjoy it.
Now that I am done rant-
ing about the non-existent piracy problem, let me tackle why SOPA is unnecessary. SOPA’s wording is far too vague and takes away con-sumers’ rights to express themselves and share music with friends. Under SOPA, the ever-so-popular trend of performing covers of favor -
ite artists’ music could be deemed illegal. For a web-site like YouTube, owned by Google, to host such a video would also be illegal, and g r o u n d s for the govern-ment to gradu-ally shut 
down sites dependent on user-generated content
The same could happen to 
Facebook and other social-networking sites — like they expect us to have real-life friends.
In all seriousness, this bill 
cannot be allowed to pass. Many of the companies this bill could hurt do agree with SOPA’s initial goal of ending piracy, but killing creativity and individual expression is not a price they are willing to pay.
In a New York Times ad-
vertisement posted by many leading social-networking sites, including but not lim-ited to Facebook, Google and Twitter, the companies stated they agreed with the premise but find problem with its ex-ecution. 
“Unfortunately, the bill as 
drafted would expose law-abiding U.S. Internet and technology companies to new and uncertain liabilities, private rights of action and technology mandates that would require monitoring of websites.”
I ask all of you to call 
your local representatives for your hometown. Ask them to stand up against this insanely careless and poorly written bill. If we all do this, we may have the privilege of avoiding the death of the Internet, along with our indi-viduality, creativity and our right to express ourselves.
Michael Cronin is colum-
nist at the Daily Evergreen at Washington State University. 
Stop SOPA: Online 
piracy act will hurt more than it helpsUWire
Guillermo Pradieu
Speaking Out
Michael
Cronin
UWiretheAvenue    THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/THE_A VENUE
“Napolon Dynamite” comes 
to TV this spring. See what other comedies are heading your way on page 12.
Online:
Follow the links from our featured restaurants easily 
at www.alligator.org.In This Issue:
“He Said, She Said” has gone through some changes. Read the beginning of Kay Bea’s new journey on page 10.ALYSSA HOLCOMB
Avenue Writer
Ever dream of working on a hit viral musical about 
a boy wizard or a futuristic, insect-ridden world that 
garners more than 100 million YouTube views? What about watching your cast’s recordings of those musi-cals rise on the Billboard charts? Perhaps you’d like to embark on a multi-city, almost sold-out concert tour to perform songs from said musicals? If any of these dreams have struck an inspirational chord, then take a look at the skyrocketing career of Team StarKid, a rambunctious group of twentysomethings from the University of Michigan who mix stage and pop cul-ture to create a hybrid style of new-age theatre. Here’s a “how-to” designed to put fledgling dreams into fast-forward, whether those dreams are on or off the stage.
Totally Awesome Tip #1: Know your roots
Since 2009, StarKid has written, composed and 
starred in four full-length musicals. Their first was “A Very Potter Musical,” based on the Harry Potter se-ries. After posting videos of their school-based perfor -
mances to YouTube, they saw the total view numbers rise along with their popularity. One of the group’s co-founders even ventured into the big wide world of Hollywood: Darren Criss, who played Harry Freakin’ Potter himself, scored a role on Fox’s hit series “Glee” and is currently starring on Broadway. Ironically, he took over the lead role from the original Potter, Daniel Radcliffe, in “How to Succeed in Business Without Re-ally Trying.”
It is these beginnings that could be the start of some-Be like Team StarKid: A “totally awesome” how-to guide
Photos by Megan Sicks
Back to witches and wizards and magical beasts - StarKid turned a dream into a reality this summer.
See STARKID, PA ge 9
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ
Avenue Writer
Listen up, Gainesville: You’re about to 
receive the low-down on local restaurants. 
Yes, that’s right, there are actual restaurants in Gainesville. 
Who would’ve known? So ditch Burrito Brothers, and enjoy the 
best of what Gainesville has to offer in cul-tural cuisine. 
1. Italian: Amelia’s
Authentic and fresh, Amelia’s is located 
at 235 S Main St., right behind the Gainesville landmark, the Hippodrome State Theatre. 
Not the most budget-friendly place, a 
dinner plate here will cost you about $20. 
Great for special occasions and perfect 
for parents, Amelia’s offers an online res-ervation option, making reserving a table easier than ever. To reserve a table, view the expansive menu or get more information, visit its website. 2. Date Night: Sabore
Romance is alive and thriving, and, as al-
ways, it is quite far off the beaten path. 
About a 20-minute drive from campus, 
Saboré is well worth the trip out of your comfort zone. 
Located at 13005 SW First Road in New-
berry, Saboré is true, fine dining. 
According to its website, Saboré features 
“world-fusion” cuisine. 
You are definitely going to want to make 
a reservation at this place. If not, expect a wait, and not a short one. 
Saboré serves up dinner, lunch and 
brunch. A word of caution: Dinner here can get expensive very quickly. 
The boldly decorated dining room and 
modern exposed bar round out the dining experience. For more information, visit its website.
3. Best Foreign Food: Mi Apa Latin 
Cafe  Bias may be in effect in this selection, 
since Mi Apa is the only Cuban restaurant that I know of in Gainesville. 
I, a Cuban-American, can attest to the 
authenticity of this gem. 
So close to campus, the restaurant is lo-
cated at 114 SW 34th St. 
Mi Apa is the best convenient Cuban 
food that you would nev-er expect to find here. 
Mi Apa features online 
delivery and a drive-up ordering window to make satisfying your arepa or croqueta cravings even easier. 
For more information or to place an or -
der, visit its website.
4. Hipster Hang: The Top
Flannel-wearing, beanie-loving indie 
music fans find refuge at this known hipster hotspot. If you can manage to bypass that, you’re in for a treat. After all, hipsters know their quality 
food spots. 
The Top, 30 N Main St., features mainly 
modern American food with a fair share of vegetarian options for those animal-loving hipsters. 
For example, tofu is a staple item on the 
menu. 
Check out the photo booth, an eclectic 
collection of books for no apparent reason, dim lighting and decent music.
 It is no wonder this place is Gainesville’s 
hipster mecca.Four can’t-miss, tasty Gainesville restaurants to discover
Places to take a date - or even your parents
Restaurant Websites
1. Amelia’s: 
www.ameliasgainesville.com
2. Sabore: 
www.saborerestaurant.com
3. Mi Apa Latin Cafe: 
www.miapalatincafe.com THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
From the University of Michigan to the Broadway stage
thing amazing — and it’s a good 
idea to remember that! In an in-terview with Billboard Magazine, Criss said that the “cool thing is it’s not us versus you; there’s no kind of separation.”Totally Awesome Tip 
#2: Do what you know.  
In a pop culture-fueled world, there is always a surplus of “fan-doms.” For StarKid, continuing its work can rely heavily on its fan base. 
“Our marketing team is Twit-
ter and teenage girls telling their friends,” said co-founder Brian Holden in an interview with Va-riety. 
When an audience is known, 
it’s easier to appeal to it once its interests are piqued; there’s a rea-son why many successes follow a formula. 
However, that isn’t to say 
breaking free from repetition isn’t out of the question — in fact, many encourage it! Even Criss broke through the mold and be-gan to indulge in new entertain-ment options. He still remains part of StarKid, appearing with them on multiple stops of the group’s recent SPACE tour when-ever he could. 
No matter what, the StarKids 
stay true to themselves and to their fans, and there’s no going wrong with that.  
Totally Awesome Tip #3: Be 
fearless, but be smart about it.
Three-hour long musicals 
about insects and talking genita-lia (respectively) aren’t the usual Broadway fare. However, StarKid has fearlessly taken these topics and turned them into beloved productions that fans quote and sing repeatedly. 
Even their magical journey 
into the musical world of Harry Potter took guts: They were at risk of angering a massive fan-dom with any potential mistake. 
This bravery didn’t come with-
out precautions. As an article by Christopher Borrelli in the Chi-cago Tribune assured, the group publicly respected the Harry Pot-ter franchise, owned by Warner Bros., by acknowledging that the franchise was not just their own. 
StarKid knew when to take 
provisions and how to use that to their advantage, which led to them branching out from the Pot-ter franchise to encompass a vari-ety of stage topics.
Groups like StarKid are one 
of a kind, never to be replicated. However, the group’s success is something that can be shared with any aspiring dreamer. 
The mixture of acknowledg-
ing a starting point, maintaining a relative focus and keeping a courageous attitude allows not only StarKid to continue to rise, but inspires StarKids-to-be and the like to pursue their dreams throughout any galaxy.STARKID , from page 8Photos by Matthias Clamer
All joking aside, Louis C.K. has donated a large portion of his profits to charity.
JOE UONG
Avenue Writer
Comedian Louis C.K., 44,  
played a million-dollar social 
experiment with his fans last month: see how much money he could make from putting out a new stand-up comedy special that was free from digital restric-tions and easy to buy at the low-est price possible.
C.K.’s special, “Louis C.K.: 
Live at the Beacon Theater,” was launched for purchase on his website Dec. 10.
Knowing that it would be ex-
tremely easy to illegally down-load the special from various websites in its current format, C.K. said: “Consider this: I made this video extremely easy to use against well-informed advice. I was told that it would be easier to torrent the way I made it, but I chose to do it this way anyway.”
Much to C.K.’s satisfaction, his 
fans did come through for him, and his experiment was wildly successful. C.K. stated that sales 
revenue cov-ered the entirety of his $250,000 production costs within 12 hours of releasing his special to the public. Also, 12 
days after its release, C.K. sold more than 200,000 copies of the special. 
“Louis C.K. Live at the Bea-
con Theater” is still available at https://buy.louisck.net/pur -
chase for $5 with payments taken via PayPal.Louis C.K. launches ‘Live at the Beacon Theater’ on web
The stand-up special 
can be bought for $5
Photos by Megan Sicks
See anybody missing? Don’t worry, Darren Criss is performing on his own stage -  and it’s a much bigger one.
KAY BEA
Avenue Writer
Call me cornball, but I love the holi-
day baggage that carries from late-November through early-January. 
I’m one of those people who devour the spirit of the season, as if it were some sort of delicious, joy-regenerative side dish that accompanies the Thanksgiving tur -
key. Sending cards, baking cookies, watch-ing cartoon specials, wrapping witty-yet-sentimentally-personalized gifts — name anything traditional that has to do with the concluding six weeks of the year, and I’m all over it. Now, my reason for mentioning this is not to attempt torture by igniting festive yearning in your hearts; I bring up my interest in the holidays because 2011’s were probably the worst I have ever ex-perienced. Folks, I didn’t even send cards this year.  This really pisses me off.
So first of all, I’m hoping some of you 
can relate to the following statement: What the hell was up with the Fall 2011 semester? I literally had to train my body to forget sleep was an option, suggesting instead that copious amounts of caffeine would be optimal for my health. This did wonders for my mood. Feliz Navidad? Pfff… whatever! 
Let’s just say that there were numerous 
moments in which I asked myself, “Why am I in school again? What is the point?” Of course, these thoughts were fleeting and immediately resolved upon turning in my last term paper. Oh accomplishment, how dysfunctional ye be. 
Next, the topic of money comes to 
mind. I am going to reveal a little secret to you readers: I am totally broke and worked two part-time jobs in addition to going to grad school. Despite this, I can’t seem to reserve a dime even if it meant saving my hide. Maybe this has to do with the fact that the ratio between wages paid and the costs of life are so unfairly skewed in favor of inflation that the ability to stay afloat is simply a mean prank. Hell, I will even admit that one of my jobs is in a re-tail environment that hooks up employees with generous discounts… and I still can’t afford a stitch on the clearance shelf. This season, Everclear’s “I Will Buy You a New Life” felt more relevant than Bing Crosby’s “White Christmas,” a disheartening truth that discloses money’s power.
But finally, I will reveal the primary cul-
prit that crushed my holiday cheer: I got dumped.  
Yes, ladies and gentle-
men, your weekly sex and relationship advice col-umnist has been kicked to the curb by her adorably-tattooed, guitar-slinging boyfriend of the last few 
months. As someone who has had three serious, live-in, big-love boyfriends in her past, plus a hefty number of short-term relationships, flings, one-nighters and bad dates under her belt, I figured that moving on from this ex would not be emotionally consuming. I was wrong.  
The truth is, as I was dishing out col-
umns last semester, I wrote from a POV of a happy, nostalgic one who remembered the woes of singledom but who was re-moved from its midst. Now, as Spring 2012 rolls in, I am faced with the daunt-ing task of talking dirty while not getting laid. And to top it all off, my wonderful co-writer has also moved on to greener pastures.  (Jake, I’m genuinely happy for you, but you are missed!) 
I know that many of you probably be-
lieve admitting defeat is a sign of weak-ness, but I have to say that heartbreak during the holidays is crippling. I’m little scared of what will unfold in these pages in the next few months.   
Fortunately, I will also say that a change 
of scenery and the company of family is an excellent remedy for mending bitterness. As I flew home for the holidays, I looked out the window of the airplane, watching the ground below grow smaller in the as-cent. The flight was quiet, aided by the fact that I had an entire row of seats to myself, no strangers infringing upon my personal space. 
Feeling comfortable in my autonomy 
and excited for the events to come, it oc-curred to me that perhaps the art of fly-ing solo was not to be scorned but rather something to be cherished.10, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
He Said, She Said: The art of flying solo 
New semester, new beginnings THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
JEREMY KATZ
Avenue Writer
10:15 a.m.: Get woken up by my dog, Tof-
fee. I think she is excited for Christmas. How 
do you explain complicated religious beliefs to a dog?
10:17 a.m.: Eat pancakes my parents made 
earlier while I get used to being awake before noon.
10:30 a.m.: Go for a drive because the roads 
are abandoned. 
11:07 a.m.: Get home and realize that there 
is nothing to do.
11:15 a.m.: Resign myself to studying for 
the GRE. 
11:17 a.m.: Notice that my desk needs re-
arranging. I can’t study with all this clutter around me.
11:25 a.m.: See who is online so I can try to validate my choice to waste time.
11:26 a.m.: No one is online. I’m an idiot.11:28 a.m.: Once again try to study for the 
GRE. I’m going to do it this time. Seriously. 
11:30 a.m.: Take an accidental nap.1:00 p.m.: Eat a ham sandwich for lunch. 
Feel absolutely no guilt. 
2:45 p.m.: Rooting for the Heat, but mostly 
LeBron, to lose.
2:46 p.m.: Realize that rooting for someone 
to lose is not really in the Christmas spirit. Start rooting for the Mavericks to win. 
2:51 p.m.: Remember that LeBron is on my 
fantasy team. Become very depressed at the thought of rooting for LeBron, and by exten-sion the Heat, for an entire year.
2:55 p.m.: A second epiphany when I re-
member that the fantasy season does not in-clude the playoffs. This makes me so happy I may not write the last quarter of this column. 2:56 p.m.: It’s Christmas; give me that one 
joke as my present. 
4:00 p.m.: The outcome of this game is clear. 
Somehow I’m able to find a friend who is as desperate to get out of his house as I am. 
7:00 p.m.: Drop friend off so he can go to a 
party his parents are making him attend. 
7:30 p.m.: Chinese food 
for dinner. Some stereo-types are true.  
8:00 p.m.: Light Hanuk-
kah candles. It is the sixth day of Hanukkah, after all. 
8:05 p.m.: Open Ha-
nukkah presents. I receive 
“Among the Thugs,” which is a spectacu-larly violent book about soccer hooligans and crowd violence. I asked for it.
9:30 p.m.: Watch random bits of the various 
Christmas specials.9:45 p.m.: While watching “A Christmas 
Story,” my dad mentions that he has never seen or heard of it. 
He falls asleep watching it so his incredible 
streak will continue.
10:00 p.m.: Play the Xbox with my brother. 
This shared activity does not bring us any closer.
11:00 p.m.: Watch more basketball and 
SportsCenter while lurking around Facebook to see how my friends celebrated.
2:00 a.m.: Finally go to bed happy that ev-
erything will be open tomorrow. 
2:01 a.m.: Remember that everything will 
be crowded and there is nothing to do any-way. 
2:whenever a.m.: Fall asleep content that 
I made it another year without having tasted eggnog or knowing definitively what a Yule log is.Jews on Christmas: A Holiday Lesson for All to Learn
ff the RecordRemember 2011?
Thomas Nassif
Columnist
tnassif@alligator.orgAt the end of 2011, I was more 
wrapped up in end-of-the-year lists than ever before. 
This was the first year I was making a list of my own for the publication I write for and also keeping track of bands that I work with, hoping to see their records receive attention across the Web.
At the end of any year, making 
your “best-of” lists causes ego-strok-ing to develop to a gross level. The fact that people will actually stare at a list of my favorite records and write me angry comments about why “I Am the Avalanche” wasn’t higher on my list or why “Red City Radio” was in the top five is still mind-blowing to me. Doesn’t the Internet give them things to do? Pic-tures of cats to look at?
We also saw the future of mu-
sic-listening become the present last year. Amazon’s Cloud Drive, Google’s beta of its Google Music platform, Spotify, Rdio and Apple’s iCloud all provided us a glimpse into what will become the norm of listening to music.
Spotify , Rdio and other music 
subscription services are paving the way for boundless music listening.
Basically , instead of paying $10 
for a CD in a record store (haha), or 
$10 on iTunes or even $0 to illegally download it,listeners n o w j u s t pay to have access to a library of m i l l i o n s of songs available to stream at their finger -
tips.Since 
it’s available on your smartphone, and since you can plug your smart-phone into your car, Spotify and Rdio basically eliminated the need for anyone to own any music files in 2012. Your music is with you every-where you go, it’s just not actually with you anymore.
Apple took a different approach, 
offering the iCloud and iTunes 
Match to music fans. For those who still want to own their music, they can now upload files into “the cloud” and then listen to those songs from their iPhone or any computer with the Internet pretty much any-where in America, more or less.
There are definite flaws to these 
new music-listening platforms, but 2012 should see the launch of new-and-improved user interfaces. Soon, music consumers will be able to legally listen to all the music they want for a lower price than ever.
The Horrible Crowes’ “Elsie” 
was my runaway album of the year. It’s the side project of Brian Fallon of The Gaslight Anthem, and he’s the only soul singer left in America, I think. The Wonder Years’ “Sub-urbia I’ve Given You All and Now I’m Nothing” was my favorite pop-punk record; it was the only record in that genre that really stood out as an instant classic for me.
Frank Turner’s “England Keep 
My Bones” took the singer/song-writer title for me, and Red City Radio’s “The Dangers Of Standing Still” was the best punk rock album I heard last year. They are all available on Spotify and, I’m sure, a variety of torrent sites for your perusal.
Let’s hope 2012 can match 2011 in 
the music industry. I’ll be listening.12, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
PATRICK HART
Avenue Writer
A new semester is upon us, 
and that means a new sea-son of television shows 
are here to distract us from said semester. A lot of airtime opened up for this spring, and nine new comedies have been approved. With all your favorite shows still on, there may be only time to give one or two new shows a try, so I’ve spent countless hours analyzing all the new shows, sit-ting through the funny moments and the painfully not-funny mo-ments. I have compiled a guide of what to watch and what to pass over without a second thought.
Sure To Be Funny
 I Just Want My Pants Back 
(MTV Thursdays, 11 p.m.): On the surface, “I Just Want My Pants Back” seems to fit into the typical MTV scripted show. Lead charac-ter Jason gets his heart stolen by a one-night stand (who, of course, left wearing his pants) and now is on an never-ending quest to find her again, leading to adventures involving sex, alcohol and living the poor, single life. While the premise is simple and overdone, I can only describe the sneak peeks and trailers in one word: cool. It doesn’t look incredibly funny (or even moderately funny), but, like the recently canceled “How To Make It In America,” “Pants” replaces jokes and humor with drinking games, midnight block parties and, as I mentioned be-fore, lots and lots of sex. The show won’t match the smarts and wit of any of the elite com-edy currently on television, but it will definitely find an audi-ence on MTV, and it may just be the perfect show to watch before going out and making mistakes ― which is ultimately what the shows seems to be all about.
 House of Lies  (Showtime 
Sundays, 10 p.m.): This will be the best comedy that is premier -
ing this spring and the hardest to watch because it’s on Showtime. The premise couldn’t be more timely: A consulting firm contin-ually rips off the “1 percent” of America without guilt and gets the unsuspecting corporate boss-es to thank them for doing so in the process. The cast couldn’t be more impres-sive. Don Cheadle has a great co-medic streak going (just Google his name with “Captain Planet”) and it will lead the all-star cast. Kristen Bell, funniest in “Forget-ting Sarah Marshall,” leads Chea-dle’s supporting staff, which also features Ben Schwartz, best known as Aziz Ansari’s business partner in Parks and Recreation. The writing of this show would have to be monumentally unfun-ny for this show to flop, which doesn’t look to be the case. So feel free to add this to an already-full Sunday night lineup. 
 Unsupervised  (FX Thurs-
days, 10:30 p.m.): “Unsuper -
vised” will be filling some very large shoes this spring, replacing one of the funniest shows of fall, “The League”. The premise is ex-tremely basic: Two best friends go through teenage life without any parental supervision. However, the show is overflow-ing with reasons why it seems like it will be a success. It will be paired with “Archer” as an hour of animated comedy on Thurs-day nights. It is created by three of the original writers of “It’s Always Sunny In Philadelphia.” It’s animated by the same anima-tors as “Archer.” Finally, it will be voiced by the hilarious Justin Long, Fred Armisen and Kristen Bell. With so many successful com-edies pouring out of FX in recent years, it will be a giant surprise if “Unsupervised” doesn’t join them. 
We’ll See
 Angry Boys  (HBO Tuesdays, 
11 p.m.): “Angry Boys” is a moc-kumentary on HBO that origi-nally aired in Australia about the issues young boys in the 21st century deal with. The creator of the series, Chris Lilley, also stars in the series in multiple roles, including a rapper, a Japanese mother and both twin brothers. Of all the shows in the “We’ll See” category, this is the one I’m least excited about. It’s on HBO, but not because it holds as high a level of prestige as other HBO shows hold, but because it is so offensive that the material can’t be aired on broadcast television. Furthermore, this offensive mate-rial appears to be just for the sake of being offensive. The more of the show I watch, the less I want to see it, but I may just not enjoy Lilley’s comedic styling. If you find him funny, then you will find the show funny. Al-though I do not, I still find my-self chuckling during some of the bits. 
 Napoleon Dynamite (FOX 
Sundays, 8:30 p.m.): Each of the four main networks are introduc-ing a new comedy this spring, and of all of them, “Napoleon Dynamite” is the only show I do not have in my “Skip It” category. Now, I am not a fan of the origi-nal movie. I’ve never even seen the entire thing, so when I heard an ani-mated series will be airing voiced by the entire original cast, I was not extremely interested. Then I watched the trailer for the show and found the 30-second promo funnier than anything I’ve seen in the original movie. Putting Napoleon into animated form is a risky decision by FOX because it looks like it will erase the incredibly distinct style that the original movie was filmed in. This will make it more appealing to audiences that didn’t like the movie, but it could backfire with the film’s fans. If it doesn’t backfire, the show will most likely become a mild success on FOX animated Sun-days, but that’s only if the writers have more up their sleeves than recycled “Gosh!” jokes.
 Key and Peele  (Comedy 
Central Tuesdays, 10:30 p.m.): Let me warn you now: “Key and Peele” will be canceled. These two “MADtv” actors and writers are not the answer that will solve Comedy Central’s sketch show drought that has formed since the removal of “Chappelle’s Show.” The show will be extremely ste-reotypical and less funny than Dave Chappelle’s hit. I would put it a good leap above “MADtv” re-runs in terms of the type of com-edy you can expect, and that isn’t necessarily a bad thing. If it’s on, give it a watch, but I wouldn’t suggest planning your schedule around “Key and Peele,” nor would I expect it to still be on the air this time next year. 
Skip It
 Work It  (ABC Tuesdays, 8:30 
p.m): “Juwanna Mann,” “Soror -
ity Girls,” “White Chicks.” This is the prestigious level of comedy “Work It” is attempting to reach with its premise: Two out-of-work men who, desperate for money to support their families, dress up as women. Wait, what? The show looks so unfunny, so groan-wor -
thy that I would be shocked if it makes it past the fourth episode. ABC seems to know what they have on their hands as well, put-ting the show up against shows with monster ratings like “Glee” and “The Biggest Loser,” almost solidifying its failure. If you end up liking this show, you’ll be in the minority. Enjoy it while it lasts.
 Are You There, Chelsea?  
(NBC Wednesdays, 8:30 p.m.): It doesn’t matter whether “Are You There, Chelsea?” will be good or bad, because going up against “Survivor,” “American Idol” and even the final season of “One Tree Hill” will make it impossible for it to gain enough viewers to sat-isfy the always-struggling NBC. However, after seeing previews for the show, I can sleep sound-ly at night knowing this show will be off the air soon. Based on Chelsea Handler’s book with a similar name, “Chelsea” stars Laura Prepon (Donna from “That 70’s Show”) as Chelsea Handler and features her hysterical ad-ventures as a bar waitress. The actual Chelsea Handler plays the sister on the show. The show is surprisingly similar to the non-funny “Whitney,” which will pre-cede “Chelsea.” This means if you’re smart, you will not be watching NBC on Wednesdays at 8 p.m. You’ll find more laughs on “One Tree Hill.” 
 Rob!  (CBS Thursdays, 8:30 
p.m.): How long will it take be-fore Mexican jokes get old? That’s the question Rob Schneider at-tempts to answer in his new series, “Rob!” The entire show seems to revolve around either insulting Mexican people or be-ing insulted by them. However, unlike the previous two shows I’ve listed, CBS seems to think this will be a hit with audiences and has paired it with the suc-cessful “Big Bang Theory” to take on “Parks and Recreation” and “The Vampire Diaries.” If any of these network shows must succeed, I would prefer this one, mostly due to the chance of a Steve Buscemi cameo. Oh, did I mention Cheech was in this? No? Probably because I didn’t think it would help its case. Ay, caramba!TV “Guide”: A look at upcoming comedies in spring 2012
What not to miss and what to skipTHURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
$445 per bedroom-All inclusive!
3/3 TH!! Roommate match avail
<1 mi from UF! Huge 24hr gym!
free tanning, free HBO/showtime
Call 352.377.2777
4-25-11-72-1
Student Friendly Apts.
All-Inclusive 3/3’s and 4/4’s
Starting at ONLY $369
352-336-3838
www.TheLandingsUF.com
4-25-72-1
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
All-inclusive private suites
***4/4s @ $399***
Sign & Receive a $100 Gift Card!!!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
Call today! 373.9009
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $449 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2/2’s & 3/3’s RMM Match
HUGE Walk In ClosetFull size W/D • Pet FriendlyPrem Cable & Hi Speed Intrnt Incld352-374-3866 • HiddenLakeUF.com4-25-11-72-1
2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1
MOVE IN TODAY!
All Inclusive 3 & 4 bds Steps from SFC
4/4’s @ $349
UPGRADES AVAILABLE $399
Only $9.99 to sign & $100 Credit
352.379.9300
4-25-11-72-1$795-2/2 Furnished Apt. On bus route, 1.5 
miles to UF campus. W/D, AC, Cable and in-ternet included. Pool, Fitness ctr., computer lab. No application fee. Yearly and monthly lease. 305-793-4290.   1-25-11-22-1
1Bed/1Bath available in 4/4 in beautiful gated 
Countryside complex. $385/mo incl all utils, cable, internet, etc. Big Screen tv in living room! Available for spring sublease. Shahrouz.ebadian@gmail.com or 754-281-5023   1-13-12-10-1
$509 1/1 in 2/2 female sublease @ The 
District on 62nd First mth's rent on me! $100 credit each mth in lease & pay only $409! Price all inclusive. Close to UF/SF/Oaks mall. Bus 20/21 Avail asap! 3212878223   1-12-12-2-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place youar ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
  1/2  2nd MONTH’S RENT!!
SPACIOUS 1285 Sqft 3BDR
      ONLY $256/BED
   www.arborpark.com
CALL TODAY!! 352-335-7275
4-25-11-72-2
1/1s Under $500
2/1s Under $600$99 Move In Special!352-372-7555FrederickGardens.com4-25-11-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
No deposit!!!
Huge 1/1’s  2/2’s  3/3’s
<1 mi from UF! Giant 24hr gym
FREE tanning/FREE cable
*Oxford Manor* (352) 377-2777
Live the 180 Lifestyle!
4-25-11-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.ESCAPE THE ORDINARY
1/1 & 2/2 flats, 3/3 TH
FREE Cable with HBO
All the amenities & FREE tanning
Gated, PET FRIENDLY
TheLaurelsUF.com • 352.335.4455
4-25-11-72-2
Spanish Trace
2/1- 1000 sq ft-  $679Great Location – Butler PlazaCall 352-373-11114-25-11-72-2
 ***MAKE US YOUR HOME***
·         Water/sewer included * Pets Ok·         Pools*Tennis*Bball*Fitness*Tan·         1 from $629 * 2 from $715·         3 from $830 * 4 from $1125·         376-2507 * www.bivenscove.com4-25-11-72-2
MOVE IN BY JANUARY 5th
2/2: $300 Cash Back
3/3: $500 Cash Back
Includes High Speed Internet
352-335-7656 www.thepolosuf.com
4-25-11-72-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Immediate Availability!
1, 2, 4 bedroom apartment homes
1/2 month rent free!
352-332-7401 • TheGardensUf.com
4-25-72-2
No Move-In Fees
1/1 for $689 * 3/2 for $809
FREE Tanning*Pool*Gym
www.aspenridgeuf.com
352.367.9910
4-25-11-72-2
Relaxing Upscale Apartments
2/2 Townhomes & 3/3 Flats
Individual Leases, Steps to Campus
Internet, Cable & H2O Included
Furnished Units Available
379.9255 www.MuseumWalk.com
4-25-11-72-2
College Manor
Studios from $505
Unlimited Utilities! Call 372-7111
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $409 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2
AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
    !! LIVE LIFE ON THE BOARDWALK !!
●       1/1 Flats & Cool Lofts!●       2/2’s and 3/2’s * Pets Loved!●       Pools * Cardio * Tanning * Tennis●       Washer/Dryers * HUGE Floor Plans!●       377-7401 * BoardwalkApt.com4-25-11-72-2
Greenwich Green
2/2 for $869
Patio and Storage Closet
Call 352-372-8100
4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
3bedroom $509/person
All inclusive townhome with everything in-cluded! Utilities, cable, internet, furniture & washer/dryer. The Laurels apts. Call now: 4352-335-4455    4-25-11-72-2
HOUSES FOR AUGUST ● BIKE TO UF
●3BR/2BA, fenced yard, $1000●4/2 in NW $1300.Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com       4-25-11-72-2
Love the Nightlife?
Live where you play!
ArlingtonSquare.orgApts in the heart of downtownCall for Avail. 352.338.0002   4-25-11-72-2
2BR/1BA Cent heat mobile home. Shaded 
lot, laundry room. From $380 to $450/mo. Includes water. No pets. 1ST MONTH FREE! Vacant lots also available. 4546 NW 13th St. 376-5887                       2-3-91-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave - Across from law school
$1650-special spring rate! - 4BR/2BA
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-31-12-16-2SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
2BR/1.5BA close to UF, Shands,Vet School
$625 w/ 1 month free; $595 selected units.
Contact our office to
inquire about student specials!!!!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Ave.
2bed/1bath close to UF, Shands, Vet School
Units starting from $550!!
Inquire about our student specials today!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720 / 352.376.7041
4-25-11-79-2
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. $900/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183     1-17-11-5-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099    2-6-12-21-2
1BR/1.5BA loft in Sparrow Condominiums. 
Totally renovated, very clean & quiet. Perfect for graduate students & professionals. Parking & clubhouse included. Avail 1/15. $575/mo + utils, + sec deposit. 339-4600    1-12-11-5-2
$450 / 1br - This is your new home! 1BR/1BA 
Sublease in a 2BR/2BA Townhome Apartment located in the Laurels (Close to UF). Available Dec/Jan. First month FREE! Call or Text 813-404-3135. Pets are allowed 1-12-5-2
3 Bed House, $900/mo, Vintage Hardwood
floors, Central Air, W/D Hookup
photos at www.rentalworkshop.com
352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
1-13-12-6-2
4 Bed House, $1000/mo,
Vintage Hardwood floors with Key West
Style Porch, W/D Hookups
photos at www.rentalworkshop.com
352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
1-13-12-6-2
2 Large Homes in NW For RENT
5-7 bdrm $2000 per month
Will Accommodate Individuals or Groups
*Ask about Family Discount*
Call Eric at (352) 682-7424
1-31-12-16-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4 Bed/2 Bath very nice house 
1 block from campus. Modern bathrooms, fireplace, wash/dry provided, wood floors. 1203 SW 1st Ave, $1850/m. 352-339-2342 or gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-13-5-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA great house. 
Fireplace, wash/dry provided, dishwasher, wood floors, fenced. Pets OK. 7 min bike to campus. $1400/mo 830 NW 16th Ave 352-339-2342. Gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-13-5-2
2BR/1.5BA TOWNHOUSE OVERLOOKING 
A LARGE POND. Located west of Campus Credit Union on County Road 20, Millrun Subdivision. Clean & neat. New carpet.  $700/mo. Call 352-871-7801pfitz100@yahoo.com   1-17-12-5-2
Beautiful 2-story house. 2.5 miles from UF. 
5BR/2.5BA 2400sq.ft. on large treed lot. Very quiet neighbrhd. H/W & tile floors, W/D, ref, stove, dishwasher. $1600/mo & security de-posit. 727-686-1404 Available now!   1-17-11-5-2
14, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
3BR/1.5BA in Pleasant St, historic district, 
dwntwn. Ceiling fans, wood floors. Porch, newly painted. No dogs. 1st, last, sec. $1100/mo call April. 538-1550aprleve@aol.com   1-31-12-15-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    1-31-12-14-2
Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA large house w/ big 
bedrooms & living room, extra game room. Fenced. Pets ok. W/D provided. 352-335-2342 or text 2100 NW 8th Court. $1400/mo or go to gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-13-12-3-2
1/1 spacious apt, $500,quiet, private,trees, 
close to downtown and UF, bus to SFC, car-pet & tile, pvt. patio w/locking gate, for calm, stable, mature people.1824 NW 9th St. 352 284 3873. postj@bellsouth.net   2-1-12-14-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
December FREE! Move in NOW for Spring 
Semester. Cabana Beach--2 bdrm/2 bath, furnished plus W/D. $509/per person. (352) 552 1757.    1-13-11-10-3
$450-1BR/1BA unfurnished in a 2BR/2BA 
Townhome Style Apt. Avail. NOW, Jan. RENT FREE!!Pets OK. Roommate is Grad. student at UF. Located in the Laurels. Call or text (813) 404-3135 if interested.   1-13-12-5-3
1/1 in 2/2 BR + util $470/mo
2 pools + club houses, gym 24/7Near Oaks Mall, UF + SFCInternet, W/D, on bus routePlease call 352-871-6065    1-17-12-6-3
FREE JAN RENT ns male
1 br/bath in 3/3 Lex CrossingIncl all utils, cable, internet$415/mo Sublet Jan 1-Aug 4Furn Call 352-870-2945   1-17-5-3
2 BR HOUSE three miles from campus
576 sf, large fenced yard, w/d hookupsAvail through July or longer Pets welcome. 4119 NW 7th St.$599 Call owner at 352-328-7474   1-17-12-5-3
Luxury apartment at the Palms Downtown 
2BR/2BA SUBLEASE Jan-June 2011. 2 park-ing spaces, Stainless steel, granite, washer/dryer, HUGE closets right downtown, safe, exclusive luxury building. Just $1100/month ($200 off normal rates) Email me for details: andrewufl@gmail.com   1-20-7-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $369/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 1/1/12      1-24-12-24-4
4/2 2 blocks from Campus. $350 including 
internet and cable. 814-440-3325jfidorra@hotmail.com     2-13-11-30-4
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 1-17-12-11-4
Roommates needed. House 2 blks to UF/
Sorority Row, near Shands, Tigert, Mid/Downtown. 4 lg BR/2BA. Students preferred! Huge, very clean home. Cent AC/H, FP , W/D, new wd flrs, DW, 5 extra closets, fenced yard, plenty of parking, on quiet street. Only $398/mo/room. Call/text Jordan 305-896-90661-31-19-4
Student roommate needed for furnished bed-
room w/own bath in 4/4 Countryside condo. Rent by the semister. Easy commute UF/SFC, 2 bus rts, W/D. $300 includes cable & Internet. 352 239 2422.    1-13-12-5-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Office Space and Penthouse Available
Call David Holbrook - (352) 213-8161
1-30-12-15-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig. Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
WE PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR CELL PHONES! 
REGARDLESS OF AGE OR CONDITION EVEN IF BROKEN! TECHMODO 6450 SW ARCHER RD 352-872-5881. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK!  1-31-15-8In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
 THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012 §  ALLIGATOR, 15
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-04252-27-35-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
I BUY JUNK CARS
●●● TOP PRICES PAID!●●●Call Anytime 352-443-11001-31-11-65-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECKS!!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECKSCASH VEHICLES $999 & UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
92 EAGLE TALON $999
89 FORD BRONCO $99994 FORD TAURUS $99996 HONDA ACCORD $1499352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
96 CADILLAC DEVILLE $1999
95 NISSAN 200SX $199998 FORD F250 $250002 CHEVY BLAZER $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $1999
98 PONTIAC GRAND AM $199901 DODGE NEON $199900 OLDS ALERO $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
CERTIFIED USED VEHICLESNO CREDIT CHECKMOVE VEHICLES $500 & UP!352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
BACK TO SCHOOL SALE!PRICES SLASHED!!!!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090     4-25-72-12
03 HONDA CIVIC $8900
04 HONDA ACCORD $899903 MITS ECLIPSE $799905 TOYOTA CAMRY $10999352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
02 NISSAN XTERRA $8999
07 SUZUKI VITARA $1299904 HONDA ODYSSEY $999905 SUZUKI XLT $9999352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5053 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948      1-9-11-72-13 
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
Volunteer Needed:
HOPE - Horses Helping People, Inc. is seek-ing volunteers for our winter/spring semester sessions.  Please email us at ridingtherapy@gmail.com to become a part of our team.  www.horseshelpingpeople.org   1-13-5-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
VIDEO TECH
ACCOUNTING EDITORAVIATION EDITORPROOFREADERLINUX ADMINACT COORDINATORGRAPHICS DESIGNERAVIATION SALESSOFTWARE DEVELOPER
Career and non-career positions available.
Please apply online atwww.gleim.com/employment             1-24-27-14
 Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   1-31-12-27-14
NOW HIRING
Outstanding Notetakers and Editors
SPRING 2012
ADV3008         ENT3003               MAR3023
BSC2010         ENY1001               MUH4016BSC2011         FOS2001               PSY2012BUL4310         GEB3373               RTV3405ECO2013        MAN3025               STA2023ECO2023        MAN4504          … and more!
Apply online at www.SmokinNotes.com
1-23-11-15-14
WEB DEVELOPERS - Multiple Openings
Internet company in downtown Gainesville seeks talented full-time site builders. Front end and/or back end. HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL. High pay, fun environment! Send resume to hr@digitalbrands.com.   1-12-11-10-14
TUTORS FOR SPRING 1-on-1 tutoring at-
risk K-12th grade students. $10/hr. 1-4 after-noons/wk. 15-20 min drive from campus. UF Fed Wk Study Permit req for emp. Volunteers welcome. Contact Sally at st23@cox.net1-31-12-15-14
Interpreter/Translator - PT - 10 hrs/wk - Law 
Office needs Spanish-English interpreter. Resume to: robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.    1-17-12-7-14
A awesome summer job in Maine! If you’re 
looking to spend this summer outdoors, have fun while you work, and make lifelong friends, then look no further. Camp Mataponi, a chil-dren’s summer camp, has positions available in Land Sports (lacrosse, soccer, basketball, softball, volleyball, field hockey), Waterfront (sailing, canoeing, waterskiing, life guarding, WSI, boat drivers), Ropes Course, Tennis, H.B. Riding, Arts & Crafts, Theater, Dance, Gymnastics, Video, Photography, Nurses, Maintenance, Cooking and more. Top sala-ries plus room/board & travel provided.  Call us today, 561-748-3684 or apply online at www.campmataponi.com.    2-21-12-31-14
Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
Data entry/clerical position FT
ECG Department.Please apply in person.Institute of Veterinary Spec3603 NW 98th St. Suite A.    1-13-5-14
Homework Coach Wanted- 1 on 1 help 
needed for bright 6th grade student with ADD. $10/hr, afternoons Sunday - Thursday. 15 minute drive from campus. email resume and references to Tina @ t.anzivino@aol.com   1-13-5-14
Sports Director for i9 Sports. Flexible hrs w/ 
20-25 hrs a week required. Must love kids, 
sports, and have a self motivating attitude. 
Great experience for Sports Mgmt students. 
Send resume to jhetzel@i9sports.com.   
1-20-9-14
Online video internet marketing company 
wants you!! easy,fun and exciting. earn big commissions plus bonuses. part time hours equals full time pay!! we will be in the gaines-ville area on sunday 1/15/12 showing "the opportunity of a lifetime". seating is limited and filling up fast so please rsvp by texting 386-931-3477 for time and location   1-13-12-5-14
NANNY NEEDED for 2: ages 2 & 4yrs must 
be able to travel: starts Jan 9; 2wks/mon/min; 40hrs/wk @$12/hr. Noah's Ark Nanny: email res., pix & sched to: info@noahsarknanny.com   1-13-5-14
16, ALLIGATOR § THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
FT NANNIES NEEDED NOW: 18 mon/
triplets; M-F 8-5; prev. exp; LONG TERM COMMIT ONLY! Noah's Ark Nanny e-mail resume, pix, & schedule to info@noah-sarknanny.com   1-13-5-14
Bookkeeper-Receptionist for immigration law 
firm. Must know MS Office & Quickbooks. Spanish a plus. Full or Part time. Resume to robjac@myimmigrationlaw.com.   1-13-12-5-14
NANNY AGENCY NEEDS NANNIES! Must 
have experience, be able to pass a drug test, background check, driving record check, and have child care references. We hire only the best. kristy@twinkletoesnanny.com   1-13-12-5-14
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing gals/guys 
to cover spring part-time. Truck Team shifts. Student or recent graduate preferred. +21 age req'd for insurance. $8.50-$11/hr. Email cover letter & resume to clantax@gmail.com1-13-12-4-14
Furniture Kingdom-Delivery Driver
Flexible hours for students.$10/hr plus tips. Must be drug free with clean driving record. See John or Jayson1420 NW 23rd Ave.   1-17-11-5-14
P/T babysitter needed, various afternoon and 
morning hours needed. 4 children ages 2 to 9 (not all home at all times). Experience re-quired. $12/hr. Email resume and references to nannyforfam@gmail.com.   1-17-12-5-14
Inactive adults (50+) are needed to participate 
in a study conducted by the UF GetUpAndGo initiative assessing the accuracy of an ad-vanced pedometer. Compensation provided. Call 336-406-3706 or emailFitBit10000@gmail.com   1-13-4-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481   1-24-12-10-14
One serious hardworking and trustworthy UF 
student. Gen or const labor, exp w/electrical & plumbing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy lifting. PT flex hrs. $7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183     1-13-12-3-14
Babysitting position available for 2 children 
ages 8 and 9. Hours include Saturday morn-ings, Thursday afternoons and possibly one additional afternoon. Must have car. If inter-ested please e-mail and include your resume and/or your babysitting experience. Thanks! jcmvet36@gmail.com    1-17-12-4-14
WAITPERSONS
Experienced & friendly. Evenings. Apply in 
person between 3 & 5pm. NAPOLATANO'S, 616 NW 75th St    1-18-12-5-14
Marketing Assistant
Heat Pipe Technology Inc, a local manu-
facturer is looking for a part time marketing 
assistant: 10-20 hours per week at
$10/hour. Flexible schedule.
Please respond to: sales@heatpipe.com
1-25-12-10-14Newborn Photographer
Love babies and photography? Our365 needs an energetic person with sales or photography experience to take photos of newborns at North Florida Regional. Training provided. Part-time. Apply online at www.our365.com/opportunities.    1-17-12-3-14
Medical Office Manager Trainee wanted for 
mid-sized dermatology practice. Duties in-clude performing or supervising ICD-9/CPT coding, billing and collections; A/R; payroll management; employee supervision and maintenance of employee records and ben-efits; insurance evaluation and contracting; interfacing with clinical staff and physicians; preparing financial reports and interfacing with accountant. Seeking a mature, ener-getic individual with experience but will train motivated candidate. Salary, benefits and possible incentive commensurate with ex-perience. Bachelor's degree desired. Email resume to ofmgrbeers@aol.com.    1-23-12-7-14
NEED SPANISH TUTOR TO LEARN 
CONVERSATIONAL SPANISH. GOOD PERSONALIY. APPLY IN PERSON AT 3535 N MAIN ST. ASK FOR JIM.    1-12-12-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.comPrivate Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
HORSE BOARDING: $350/mo. From GV/
UofF 10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-coun-try, daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling opportunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.    2-29-11-51-15 
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
GET FIT W/ GARY!
Over 15yr exp. CPT available for you now! Trained Ms. Florida; US Military; and various gyms. Best rates in GV area ever! $20 - stu-dent, $30 - median wage earners $40 - pro-fessionals. Call for more info: 386-867-00001-13-12-5-16
Advanced Cardiac Life Support(ACLS)Basic 
Life Support(BLS) and CPR classes to fit your schedule.American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for over 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.   2-15-12-25-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
$★ Meet Girls - Make Money ★ $
Send a Self Addressed Stamped Envelope 
to: P O Box 6200, Gainesville, FL 32627 STOP BEING LONELY, BORED, BROKE!!!1-13-2-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.GAINESVILLE IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Green Cards, Natz, Work Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
(904) 425-8078
2-20-30-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Need performance credit?
5$ student tkts - Monday, Jan.23, 7 pm'The Nightingale and the Rose'Hippodrome Theatre, 375-HIPP    1-23-12-8-20
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Podcast Bonanza 
Fresh off a new episode Wednesday, the podcast is back 
with another edition today, wrapping up the football season with thoughts on the hire of Brent Pease. We Want You!
Come out to 1105 W. University Ave. on Friday 
from noon to 3 p.m. for our Open House. We’re looking to hire several new writers. Free pizza!
AP Photo
Former Boise State assistant coach Brent Pease (center) was hired Wednesday to fill the vacancy at of-
fensive coordinator left by the departure of Charlie Weis last month. 
� HIRE ANNOUNCED 
WEDNESDAY. 
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Tasked with hiring his second 
offensive coordinator in as many 
years, Florida coach Will Mus-champ put his focus on finding the right fit for his team and system as he tries to rebuild Florida’s pro-gram.
So when the Gators announced 
Wednesday the hiring of former Boise State offensive coordinator Brent Pease to replace Charlie Weis, who took the head coaching job at Kansas last month, it was only ap-propriate that Muschamp used the word ‘fit’ 10 separate times when discussing the newest addition to his staff.
“Really, it was about bringing a 
guy in that was going to be a good fit for the room,” Muschamp said. “Bring some new ideas, bring some new energy to what we’re trying to do, but understand we’re not chang-ing philosophically where we’re headed with this thing. … We’re not changing who we are and what we are. Brent understands that.”
In hiring Pease, whose contract 
will be finalized Friday, with the terms made public shortly there-after, Muschamp gets a coordina-tor with more than two decades of coaching experience, including the last six at Boise State, where the Broncos have become a perennial power.
More importantly, Muschamp 
gets a pro-style coordinator who has experience calling plays in the Southeastern Conference, which Muschamp said is different than any other league due to the defen-sive fronts.
“Coach Muschamp and I share 
a lot of the same philosophies so this was a perfect fit,” Pease said 
in a statement Wednesday. “I want to be mul-tiple in our offen-sive formations and have a bal-
anced attack with tempo. I firmly believe in being 
fundamentally sound and red-zone efficient.”
The Gators struggled in each of 
those areas last season, finishing 114th in the nation in penalties per game (7.7) and 113th in red-zone touchdowns, finding the end zone just 48.7 percent of the time they were inside the opponent’s 20. Under Pease in 2011, the Broncos scored touchdowns on 74.3 per -
cent of their red-zone trips, ranking eighth in the nation.
A factor in Boise State’s success 
was Pease’s play-calling prowess and ability to utilize motion shifts and different tempos, all qualities 
New OC Pease brings degree of continuity, pro-style experience
JOHN BOOTHE 
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The ball left Mike Rosario’s hand and 
flew more than 21 feet before it finally 
hit nothing but hardwood. No clang, no swish. Just a swift rotation of leather cut-ting through an air-conditioned arena.
His badly missed shot, taken early in 
the shot clock, made Rosario glance over to coach Billy Donovan and his team-mates.
Though Rosario had scored seven 
straight Florida points and helped build a nine-point lead before his miss with 8:44 left in the first half, he would be taking a seat 19 seconds later to explain his deci-sion-making to an annoyed coach.
“You know, and he’s beautiful,” Dono-
van said of Rosario. “He [told me], ‘Well, I was open,’ and I said, ‘Well, you know what? … If you’re going to claim yourself as being a good shooter and you actually shoot an airball when you’re open, at least tell me the ball slipped out of your hands or something.”
Rosario, a redshirt junior guard, may be 
Florida’s leading bench scorer at 8.2 points per game, but that alone has not made him an ideal sixth man for the Gators. From this season’s outset, Donovan has been trying to mold Rosario’s pure scoring skills into a more complete player.Healthy Rosario still adjustingTHE Boo THE REviEw
For two months, Florida coach Bil-
ly Donovan has seen his patience dwindle. 
Tuesday night in the O’Connell Cen-
ter, 10,506 people finally witnessed it run out.
The first Gators to go were starting 
center Patric Young and forward Erik Murphy. They left for the bench just 3:08 into Florida’s 70-48 win against Geor -
gia. It was the earliest the pair had been yanked this season.
“Enough,” Donovan said. “Erik Mur -
phy can’t forget to block out and he can’t be late rotating. And Patric can’t jump through the air to block shots and leave … We’ve talked about enough of that already. It’s time to move forward because we’re in league play.”
During the 
rest of the game, 38 more substi-tutions were pa-raded on and off 
the court.
Some were made due to foul trouble, 
but the majority, especially in the sec-ond half, can only be blamed on missed defensive assignments and mental laps-es. All too familiar characteristics of the Gators’ mystifying road struggles in Donovan not putting up 
with same old mistakes
John Boothe
twitter: @jjboothe
sEE Boo THE, PA gE 18sEE HooPs, PA gE 18sEE foo TBAll, PA gE 19Muschamp
“Mike’s always and has been a 
proven scorer, so what he did was 
not uncharacteristic of his ability.”
Billy Donovan
UF head coach
Quotable
“Against these defenses? In this league? Yes. Did 
you watch the other night?” 
Will Muschamp
UF coach (on if there are play-calling differences in SEC)  “Mike’s always and has been a 
proven scorer, so what he did was 
not uncharacteristic of his ability,” Donovan said.
  With back and ankle injuries 
keeping Rosario out or limiting him in UF’s last six games, Florida has seen its bench held below double-digit scoring four times, including a season-low one point against Ten-nessee.
  Finally healthy against Georgia, 
Rosario re-entered the game a little more than two minutes later, and added a new dimension that Dono-van said hasn’t been seen in two Gators’ losses during that stretch.
  Rosario snagged two steals and 
assisted on two Brad Beal 3-point-ers to close the half. In 12 minutes of playing time, Rosario had a hand in 13 points.
  “It felt great,” Rosario said. “To 
go out there and be able to just com-pete again to my full ability. Now that I’m healthy, I’ve got a lot to bring to the table for the team, so I felt like the opportunity was there tonight.”
  While Donovan characterized 
Florida as a team that struggles with offensive consistency, Rosario’s abil-ity to provide quick scoring bursts has proven effective in the past. He scored seven points in six minutes during the ﬁ  rst half of Florida’s overtime win against Arizona on Dec. 7.
  “Getting those seven points in 
the ﬁ  rst half, that helps your team,” Donovan said of Rosario’s most re-cent performance. “It’s interesting because I feel like people look at us as being this great scoring team. When you talk about scoring — guys that can put the ball in their hands, guys that can score — we’re a really, really good shooting team, but what we’ve got to do is we’ve got to understand we have to utilize our shooting.”
  In the second half, Rosario hoist-
ed another long three that was well off target. This time, Donovan kept him in. 
  “He respects us as players,” Rosa-rio said. “He knows that I know the difference between a bad shot and good shot, so that’s why he didn’t pull me out of the game. That’s what he told me, so I was like, ‘Thanks, coach.’”
  Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org. 
four losses this season.
  “I’m at a point right now after the Tennessee game 
where if guys don’t block out, guys don’t do the things 
they need to do, they’re coming out of the game,” he said.
  Donovan issued the challenge to his team during its 
practices immediately following last Saturday’s 11-point loss to the previously .500 Volunteers, a team that has dropped games against Austin Peay, College of Charles-ton and Oakland.
  Against the Bulldogs, the Gators came close to staying 
the aggressor for a full 40 minutes, but their focus was still not at the level that is needed to consistently win on the road in the SEC, or against any quality opponent for that matter. 
  Florida held a 25-point lead on Georgia midway 
through the second before a 16-4 run by UGA – the worst offensive team in the league – cut the advantage to 13 with seven minutes left.
  The momentary collapse should serve as a reminder 
of what happened three days earlier.
  “Every challenge [coach Donovan] brings to the ta-
ble, we embrace it,” said Mike Rosario, a redshirt junior guard. “Because it’s a step to get better in life and also is a step to get more mature as a man. When you’ve got to take on challenges and be responsible for your actions, that says a lot about you as a man.”
  Florida will be traveling to Columbia, S.C., on Satur-
day for its ﬁ  fth road game and second within the SEC. To keep his team mentally focused, Donovan knows he found a quick ﬁ  x against Georgia — several physical, harrowing days of scrimmages.
  But as for what technique he will use to inspire the 
Gators against the Gamecocks, Donovan is currently at a loss.
  “Those are things I’ve got to help those guys with in 
terms of getting them prepared,” Donovan said. “How I go about that? What do I do? I don’t know.” 
  Until he discovers a way to prolong Florida’s mo-
ments of emotionally inspired basketball, the Gators are still at risk for another embarrassing loss.
  Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org. 18, ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
  JOE MORGAN
 Alligator Staff Writer
 Crashing the glass was a strength 
for Florida last season, and the 
Gators have picked up where they left off last March.
  Florida’s 1,432 rebounds during 
the 2010-11 campaign ranked second in the Southeastern Conference only to Tennessee, which ﬁ  nished the year ranked No. 4 in the AP Poll.
  This season, Florida (11-5, 1-2 
SEC) again ranks second in the con-ference with 700 boards, averaging 43.3 per game heading into tonight’s road matchup at 7 p.m. against No. 19 Georgia (13-3, 2-1 SEC).
  However, the Gators can become 
more effective rebounders by de-creasing the disparity between of-fensive and defensive boards.
  Florida boasts the best offensive 
rebounding percentage — calcu-lated by dividing a team’s offensive boards by the sum of its offensive boards and its opponents’ defensive boards — in the SEC at 47.2 
  Conversely , the Gators rank next 
to last in the conference with a 62.2 defensive rebounding percentage. Arkansas has the highest mark at 68.5 percent.  Junior forward Jennifer George, 
who leads UF with 10.1 boards per game, has noticed that Florida’s ef-fort on the offensive glass has been superior this season.
  “We’re very tenacious going af-
ter the ball on offense,” George said. “You see your teammates shooting and you know where the ball’s go-ing to come off of.”
  Assistant coach Murriel Page has 
noticed the split, too.   She suggests that grabbing an offensive rebound offers more instant gratiﬁ  cation than pulling down an opponent’s miss.
  “Everybody wants the ball on the 
offensive end because you want to put in points, but nobody wants to do it on the other end,” Page said.
  Coach Amanda Butler has 
stressed throughout the season the need for perimeter players to aid in the rebounding game.
  UF has been bolstered by a 
strong effort on the glass from senior guards Deana Allen and Lanita Bar-tley, who rank second and fourth on the team with 6.1 and 4.9 boards per game, respectively.
  However, the rest of the guards 
have left something to be desired. 
  Senior guard Jordan Jones be-
lieves that improved effort from underperforming players will bring balance to the Gators’ rebounding.
  “The guards need to do a better 
job of getting down there and help-ing,” Jones said. “It falls on us — the people who aren’t getting many re-bounds — to help them out.”
  Aside from George, the post 
players have also struggled to get their hands on the ball in the paint.
  One player that UF will rely on to 
shore up the effort under the basket is center Azania Stewart, who is av-eraging only 5.6 boards per game.
  Stewart showed signs of turning 
the corner with 10 rebounds against Kentucky, but regressed against Ole Miss (4) and South Carolina (2).
  “She’s not making excuses or not 
taking responsibility ,” Jones said. “She’s capable of it, she’s been there before. She’s a 6-foot-4 post player in the SEC, and we need more from her.”
  Page says that improving re-
bounding has been a focus in prac-tice, adding that   consistency on the defensive boards is crucial to Flori-da’s identity.
  “We’re a fast-break team, so 
there’s no other way to start a fast break than to get a big stop and get a quick rebound.”
Gators looking for more balance on boards against Bulldogs 
Florida Offensive and Defensive
Rebounding Percentage
11 WINS
Florida: 20 offensive rebounds per game,      
              24.9 defensive rebounds per game
Offensive Rebounding Percentage: 48.6 percentOpponents: 14.5 offensive rebounds pergame,       
                     21.2 defensive rebounds per game
Defensive Rebounding Percentage: 
63.3 percent
5 LOSSES
Florida: 18.8 offensive rebounds per game,                   22.4 defensive rebounds per game
Offensive Rebounding Percentage: 43.3 percentOpponents: 15.2 offensive rebounds per game,      
                     23.6 defensive rebounds per game
Defensive Rebounding Percentage: 48.7 percent
Florida has outrebounded its opponent in 12 of 16 games
 UF is 9-3  when it outrebounds its opponent
  UF is 2-2  when its opponent has more rebounds
Shawn Janetzke / Alligator Staff
 David Carr / Alligator
  After dealing with back and ankle injuries, Florida guard Mike Rosario re-
turned to form against Georgia, scoring seven straight points in the win.  
Rosario can add different dimension
HOOPS , from page 17BOOTHE , from page 17Muschamp praised Wednesday.
  “We want to be aggressive in all phases as we move 
forward with this thing,” Muschamp said. “[Pease is] 
very unconventional in the way he thinks offensively at times, which is good, because it keeps the defense off bal-ance.”
  Although Pease brings a distinctive offensive mindset 
and years of experience to Gainesville, Muschamp made it clear to the Gators’ new offensive coordinator that con-tinuity is key, and that the team is going to tweak the of-fense rather than install an entirely new playbook after one year.
  Muschamp wants to limit having to teach his players 
different terminology from what they used last season, saying it’s easier for one coach to learn than for an entire offense to do so, particularly with a young nucleus that includes rising sophomore quarterbacks Jacoby Brissett and Jeff Driskel.
  “At the end of the day, he doesn’t need to get mar-
bles in his mouth on third and 8,” Muschamp said. “He needs to be able to get a call out, so he’s got to be familiar enough with the terminology to be able to call it and also our players be able to understand it.”
  Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.org.  THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 19
  KELLY PRICE
 Alligator Writer
 For Florida coach Will Muschamp 
and new offensive coordinator Brent 
Pease, it all started with a 6-foot-2, 260-pound defensive tackle named “Sweet Pea.”
  In a press conference Wednesday, 
Muschamp recounted the ﬁ  rst time he encountered Pease. 
Muschamp was working for 
Valdosta State and Pease was at Northern Arizona when, in the early 2000s, Muschamp lost a prized re-cruit — Vincent “Sweet Pea” Burns — to Pease. 
Muschamp never forgot.  “He’s an outstanding recruiter,” 
Muschamp said. “Right then, I knew he could recruit. But he’s a guy who’s been on my radar a long time.
“As a football coach, I faced him 
when we were at LSU and he was at Kentucky. I really liked, again, what he did with that football team offensively, creating ways to get his playmakers the ball. Creative in the play-calling, the tempos and differ-ent stuff, and as he has progressed, he and I have kept in pretty good contact.”
  The selection of Pease will be a 
signiﬁ  cant boon for recruiting, with some Florida oral commits saying they like the hire.   Oral commit Colin Thompson 
said he hasn’t yet spoken to Pease di-rectly, but expected they would talk before his ofﬁ  cial visit on Jan. 20. 
Regardless, the four-star tight 
end from Warminster, Pa., said he was excited to see what Pease would bring to Gainesville, especially after his recent experience bringing Boise State to national prominence.
  “He does a great job and he did 
a great job there,” he said. “It’s deﬁ  -nitely going to help (undecided re-
cruits like Nelson 
Agholor and Ste-fon Diggs). 
“I know re-
porters will make predictions and I see headlines like, ‘This could really help receivers,’ 
and things like that, so I hope they’re reading some things. I hope those two lean to Florida. They’re athlete freaks and they’re good guys.”
  Agholor, a ﬁ  ve-star athlete out 
of Tampa, expressed during leadup to the Under Armour All-America game last week that he would be paying close attention to the coordi-nator search in Gainesville.
  Diggs, a ﬁ  ve-star wide receiver 
from Olney, Md., is another recruit interested by Pease’s decision to join the Gators. Because of Pease’s extensive 
experience coaching NFL-caliber wideouts, Diggs told ESPN.com that the Gators have jumped higher on his board as National Signing Day approaches.
  Pease, who is the replaceing for-
mer offensive coordinator Charlie Weis, has the potential to attract more offensive recruits like Diggs and Agholor — a good sign for Muschamp’s ﬁ  rst full class, which currently boasts two tight ends, a lone running back and one wide re-ceiver.
  Pease, who Muschamp said has 
recruited in Florida’s north-central regions before, will hit the recruiting trail after his ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial staff meet-ing Friday.
  Due to Pease’s experience as a 
quarterbacks coach, Muschamp said he will mainly target quarterback prospects. 
  “That position’s different as far 
as evaluation and building that re-lationship,” Muschamp said. “But as far as his area is concerned, we’ll sit down as a staff and make sure it meshes well with our staff.
  “Obviously, he’s also done a good 
job of developing players once they get on campus, but recruiting is all about developing good relationships with people.” 
Oral commitments are nonbinding 
until a national letter of intent is signed on or after National Signing Day on Feb. 1.   
 Pease could attract undecided recruits
FOOTBALL , from page 17No wholesale 
changes with Pease at helm of offense
Thompson
Diggs, Agholor main targets
“We want to be aggressive in all phases as 
we move forward with this thing.”
Will Muschamp
UF coachRECRUITING20, ALLIGATOR §  THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
