JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
After the Gators’ lone win in 
the Southeastern Conference Tournament, Patric Young 
sat next to his locker in the home dressing room of New Orleans Are-na and fielded the same question four times — answering each inqui-ry with a positive response.
When asked if he was going to 
return next year for his junior sea-son following Florida’s nine-point win against Alabama on March 9, or whether he will go pro at 20 years old, Young declared, “Yeah, I’m back next year.”
Though Young has been known 
to be exceedingly candid with the media during his short career — he also referred to Kentucky’s players as out of shape head-ing into their semifinal matchup the next day — the sophomore center’s startling announcement still came as a surprise in the middle of the Gators’ efforts to claim the program’s fourth SEC Tourna-ment title.
Both he and All-SEC freshman 
Brad Beal have long been consid-ered potentially high selections in the NBA Draft, even before the sea-son began.
Curious if he had any insight 
on Beal’s upcoming decision, a re-porter asked Young whether he had spoken with his teammate about his plans.
“I’ll be back. I don’t know about 
Brad, but I hope he is,” Young re-plied.
With the April 10 deadline for 
early entries and underclassmen to declare for the draft fast approach-ing, news that one of Florida’s key building blocks for the team’s fu-ture should have been a major rev-elation.
But the very next day, Young 
sounded like a different person as he answered follow-up questions about his earlier comments. 
On Saturday, he sat in a familiar 
position in front of reporters, but in a different locker room and, this time, following a disappointing loss to Kentucky in the conference semi-finals.
He was guarded and short in re-
sponse. Young spoke softly and low enough that none of his answers in-spired much confidence about the previous verdict he came to regard-ing his future at Florida.
“I mean, Coach Donovan … It’s 
my decision,” Young said. “I mean, I really haven’t thought about it be-cause the season’s not over yet.”
Young is right. The season still 
needs to be played out and so do the factors that will weigh on his 
and Beal’s draft status.
Though Young again addressed 
his comments Thursday in Omaha, 
Neb., saying this time he has indeed decided to return for his junior sea-son, recent NCAA Tournament his-tory has proven that sustained suc-cess through the month of March could change all of that. 
During Florida’s weekly press 
conference the Monday after Selec-tion Sunday, Beal spoke for the first time on his own intentions. 
Describing his situation as al-
most a win-win scenario, Beal said he had “no clue” what his final deci-sion will be at the conclusion of the season.
“Either way it goes, if I leave, I 
still played a great year of college,” Beal said. 
“I enjoyed it. If I stay, it’s only 
going to make me get better. Either way it goes, I’m gaining something positive out of it.”
  
As a No. 7 seed in the NCAA 
Tournament cornered in the bot-tom of the West region, Florida is entering a winnable game today in Omaha, Neb., against No. 10 seed Virginia.
While a deep run in The Big 
Dance for the Gators would likely have to go through current national powers like No. 2-seed Missouri and top-seeded Michigan State, some analysts like UF’s chances despite the team backing into the tourna-ment with four losses in its final five games.
One of those confident in the 
Gators’ prospects in the re-gion is college basketball analyst Doug Gottlieb, a for -
mer Oklahoma State point guard who has been work-ing at ESPN since 2003.
Gottlieb has publicly 
picked Florida to reach the Final Four, and he said an extended run could com-pletely change the way 
NBA teams are looking at Beal and Young.
“The first thing they can do in 
order to help their stock is to win,” Gottlieb said. “If you go across the board and look at how many guys have gone to the Final Fours and been drafted, it’s really remarkable. Whether they can play or not is a different story.”
This season, Beal has tried to 
state his case on the floor by play-ing the most minutes of anyone on the roster.
Coming out of St. Louis, Mo., 
as the No. 4 overall player in the country, according to Rivals.com, Beal has led Florida in points and rebounds down its final stretch of 16 games.  
Though the 6-foot-3 guard is av-
eraging 14.6 points per game and is rebounding 6.5 per contest, the large load he has carried as a fresh-man has also backfired at times, as Beal has struggled intermittently with turnovers and streaky 3-point shooting. 
Currently, DraftExpress.com 
ranks him as the 10th pick in the draft and the first guard overall in an especially thin class for back-court players.
“I know he’s a good student and 
I know he’s smart enough to real-ize he’s probably a year away from breaking through,” Gottlieb said. “He’s just inconsistent.”
“But they’re going to take him. 
You know he’s going in the top 10; everybody knows he can play. But is he ready?  Or does he want to spend some of his first years in the D-League?”
Gottlieb called Beal a player with 
limitless potential, a description he echoed for the 6-foot-9, 250-pound Young.
Much like Beal’s current situa-
tion, Young gave thought to leaving after one season but stayed largely for academics. On March 6, he was named the SEC Scholar-Athlete of the Year.
Last season, NBA rookies taken 
in the opening round of the draft made anywhere from $4.3 million in their first season as the No. 1 pick, to just less than $1 million as the 30th overall choice.
Young was projected in most 
mock drafts as a player who could have been selected in the late lottery picks or in the middle of the first round. 
After averaging 10.3 points and 
just 6.4 rebounds per game this year in his first full season as a starter, though, Young’s stock has some-what slipped.
He’s currently projected as the 
21st overall pick by DraftExpress.com.
“Obviously, if he’s not the most 
impressive physical specimen in college basketball, there’s very few guys who could compare,” Gottlieb said. “For Patric Young, the M.O. is, ‘Does he love the game or is he just blessed by God with this incredible body and skill so that he can just show up and do it?’”
  
Each season, Billy Donovan har -bors the same silent wish of every other Division I coach who is work-ing with elite-level talent: He wants to see all of his players stay for the following season.
But in his 16 years at Florida, 
Donovan has had 10 players depart early to pursue professional basket-ball.
“Selfishly, you never want to see 
anybody leave. I wish these guys would stay here for four years, but that’s not the real world anymore,” Donovan said. “And I think at times, these guys are presented with op-portunities or decisions they’ve got to make before their time is done here eligibility-wise. I try to support them in that.”
While Donovan’s main job is to 
make sure players like Young and Beal are concentrating on the team and not their draft positioning, he said sometimes the task can become more complicated when outside in-fluences get involved.
“I always worry about the agent 
situation and people trying to get to those guys a little bit,” Donovan said. “It’s my responsibility to stay on top of the fact that they could be being pestered or someone’s trying to get close to them. It’s not even that there’s anything wrong or ille-gal going on. It’s just more of keep-ing them focused on what they need to focus on.”
With Young hampered by ten-
dinitis in his knee and a right ankle sprain for much of the second half of the season, Donovan has repeat-edly called out the big man for in-consistency during practices and poor mental preparation for games. 
“I’m not saying this is Patric, 
but I’ve been around enough play-ers, there are some players that like what the game brings to them: no-toriety, attention, to certain guys in the NBA, the money,” Donovan said. “Then there are guys that re-ally want to be great in the game.”
NBA scouts have also noticed 
Young’s long lapses of energy and focus on the court, according to Got-tlieb.
“If he can’t practice or play in 32 
games, how the hell are you going to play when we play 82 games?” Gottlieb said.Though Donovan hasn’t had to 
deal with many one-and-done types in the past, even the departures of upperclassmen like Joakim Noah, Al Horford and Corey Brewer, af-ter they experienced success in the tournament, can put a strain on the program.
“We went through a hard time in 
recruiting when Noah and Horford and Brewer and those guys came back,” Donovan said. 
“You try and tell [recruits], ‘Hey 
listen, they’re going to go,’ and all of a sudden one guy says, ‘Well geez, Joakim Noah would’ve been the No. 1 pick after his sophomore year and he came back. Why wouldn’t he come back again for his senior year?’”
Donovan said that after winning 
two national championships with the core group of Noah, Horford and Brewer in 2006 and 2007, he spent more time re-recruiting them than he actually did coaching the three current NBA players.
However, there has been no hint 
from Donovan that either Young or Beal has let thoughts of a potential professional career affect his cur -
rent play.
“Those guys are really level-
headed right now,” Donovan said. “They don’t talk about it.”
With the draft deadline just more 
than three weeks away, discussing their intentions to make the jump to the NBA will have to become a pri-ority for both players.
Donovan is losing only one se-
nior this season — point guard Er -
ving Walker — and is bringing in three guards for his 2012 class with-out any forwards or centers lined up to possibly replace Young or Beal’s impact on the boards.
As the Gators prepare for their 
opening-round game today — in what could be the beginning of a extended stay in the tournament or one that just lasts the weekend — Donovan said both players have a clear understanding of how their performance going forward can shape their future.
“I think that they all realize that if 
our team does well, they do well.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@
alligator.org.
Editor Matt Watts     Assistant Editor John Boothe       Cover Illustration Matt Watts     
 Alligator       Friday, March 16, 2012NCAATOURNAMENT
Beal, Young facing difficult decision at season’s endTwo Ways
About It
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Averaging 14.6 points and 6.5 rebounds per game, Florida guard Brad Beal has been arguably the Gators’ best 
player this season. He was recognized as First Team All-SEC and awarded a spot on the All-SEC Freshman Team. 
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Sophomore center Patric Young has faced questions about the NBA Draft since enrolling at Florida, however he has said publicly as of late that he plans to return to the Gators for his junior season. Either way it goes, if I leave, I still played a great year of college. I enjoyed it. If I stay, it’s only going to make me get better. Either way it goes, I’m gaining something positive out of it.
Brad Beal
UF freshman guardVOLUME 106 ISSUE 118 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
� THE STUDENT INVOLVED 
WAS NOT INJURED.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
A student’s experiment caused 
fumes from hazardous chemicals 
to leak into the air in Sisler Hall on Thursday night.
The student, who did not want 
to identify himself, was conducting an experiment alone on the third ﬂ  oor of the building when fumes started to rise from a 6-inch ﬂ  ask,  said Gainesville Fire Rescue Lt. Gary Law.
Although GFR called the incident 
a chemical spill, only fumes leaked from the beaker. Sisler Hall was kept open while GFR inspected the lab where the incident happened.
The student told ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters he 
was not hurt, but GFR insisted he go to the hospital as a precautionary measure for fear of inhalation haz-ards, said GFR Lt. Steve Mueller.
The student was working with a 
100 mL mixture of carbon tetrachlo-ride, hexane, triphenylphosphine and water.
The experiment was conducted 
on a countertop under a hood, which prevented the fumes from being re-leased into surrounding air.
Law said if it had not been for the 
hood, the situation could have been a lot worse.
This was at least the third inci-dent involving hazardous chemical reactions in Sisler Hall throughout the past year. The ﬁ  rst occurred Oct. 11 when a student’s vial exploded as he transferred it to a scale. The sec-ond was on Jan. 11 when a student’s chemical mixture exploded under a protective hood.GFR would not comment as to 
why chemical-related accidents keep happening in Sisler Hall.
“But it’s something that should be asked,” Mueller said.
Contact Adrianna Paidas at 
apaidas@alligator.org. Chris Alcantara contributed to this report.
Man charged with stalking women
He lives on the ﬂ  oor below them at The Estates 
and has a history of stalking, pg. 8. Phillips Center to host contortionist dance group
The group will perform Sunday, pg 3.  
Twenty-ﬁ  ve students to be inducted into UF Hall of Fame
The students were recognized for campus leadership, pg 4. 84/57
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 15TYLER JETT                                         and SAMANTHA SHAVELL
Alligator Staff Writers
A member of the Sigma Phi 
Epsilon fraternity was arrested Thursday morning and charged with stealing almost $600 worth of plastic sheets from Home Depot.
Austin Mobley, a management 
sophomore, was arrested around 3 a.m. on charges of resisting mer-chant detainment, grand theft and scheming to defraud and obtain property. Mobley took the plastic sheets in preparation for a pool party his fraternity is throwing this weekend, according to police.
Mobley did 
not return a mes-sage seeking comment.
Carlos Gord-
ian, president of the UF chapter of Sigma Phi Ep-silon, said Mob-
ley’s status within the fraternity is under review, and he will meet Student charged with 
stealing from Home Depot
Mobley
ADMINISTRATION
ERIN JESTER
and JULIA GLUM
Alligator Staff Writers
UF President Bernie Machen laid out a plan for 
tuition increases and addressed members’ con-
cerns about GatorCare during Thursday’s Faculty Senate meeting.
During the last days of the legislative session, 
bills allowing UF to self-insure employees and charge market-rate tuition were approved and sent to Gov. Rick Scott.
“We’re hoping against hope that that becomes 
a long-term reality for us,” Machen said of the market-rate tuition bill. “This budget situation is the bleakest in the eight years that I’ve been here.”Increasing tuition to the market rate could bring 
in $25 million to $30 million in additional revenue, which would take care of about half the budget cuts UF will face this year, Machen said.
Although the legislature reduced UF’s budget 
by about $36.5 million, the total “real” cut is closer to $55 million or $58 million because of hidden items like an $8.5 million reduction to retirement contributions.Machen addresses tuition 
hikes, faculty self-insurance
SEE THEFT, PAGE 8
SEE FACULTY, PAGE 8Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
A Gainesville Fire Rescue worker walks in front of Leigh Hall on Thursday evening.  A leak of hazardous chemicals was reported on the third 
ﬂ  oor of Sisler Hall.
Fume leak marks third incident in Sisler since October
“This budget situation is the bleak-
est in the eight years that I’ve been 
here.”
Bernie Machen
UF PresidentFlorida is facing  
its toughest 
defensive test 
of the season today 
against Virginia in 
the NCAA Tourney. 
See story, page 15.News Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 118 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica-tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Marissa Prieto, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
  Elesa Paschke, Raven Pritchett,   
  David Williams, Nika Zecevic
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 A
dvertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
TSF performs 12 Hours of Improv 
and GatorNights!
Today, noon to midnightOrange & BrewHelp yourself to some laughs while helping fund cancer re-search. Theatre Strike Force is in the O&B from noon to mid-night for its annual 12 Hours of Improv event. Make a donation and enjoy improv and sketch comedy . At 10 p.m., see TSF’s GatorNights! performance to round out the evening.
HerMANual Launch Party
Today, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.O!O Garden GrilleHerMANual, a new online magazine, will be hosting a launch party to celebrate its debut. There will be live mu-sic, raffle prizes, delicious refreshments and a Mr. and Ms. Congeniality contest. This event is free and open to the public.
Prom dress drive begins
Today to FridayWomen’s History Month is hosting the first prom dress drive benefiting Gainesville area high schools. Donate gen-tly used prom/special occasion dresses to local high school stu-dents who might not otherwise be able to attend prom. Drop boxes will be located in all resi-dence hall common areas.
The Art of Google BooksCommuter Lot
Doctors Without Borders Student Organization is host-ing a 5K called “Dash for Doctors” to raise money for the international Doctors Without Borders organization. There will be music, food and priz-es. Register online at www.Active.com, keyword: Dash for Doctors to participate in the 5K and get a T-shirt. For more information, contact UFDWBSO@gmail.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events. Improperly for -
matted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.Today to April 3
Reitz Union, second floor gal-leryMonday to Thursday , 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.Friday to Sunday , 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.Reception March 22, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.The Art of Google Books by Krissy Wilson is an image-curation blog that values the adversaria chronicled in book digitization. The aim of the project is twofold: to recognize book digitization as rephotography and to pro-mote the signs of use that ac-company these texts as wor -
thy of study and exhibition. For more information, visit theartofgooglebooks.tumblr.com/exhibit.
VISA International Month
Today to April 7Celebrate culture and diver -
sity with events including a pageant, fashion show and talent show.Visit www.ufvisa.org for more information.
Dash For Doctors
Saturday, 8:30 a.m.
THUNDER
STORMS
84/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/56PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
83/58PARTLY
CLOUDY
83/59TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
 FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
on campus
KELSEY GRENTZER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The third-generation iPad tab-
let debuts at the UF bookstore 
today, but students won’t get a discount on the product.
Today is the gadget’s official re-
lease for Apple suppliers around the world. It is priced starting at $499.
Jon Pitts, a trade manager at 
the UF bookstore, said the book-store did not offer a preorder op-tion for the iPad, and Apple did not give an exact number of iP-ads that would be shipped to the store.
IPads have been popular at the 
bookstore in the past, Pitts said, and he expects the new one to sell out quickly.
The new iPad features more 
vivid graphics, faster perfor -
mance, a five-megapixel camera and the ability to connect to 4G networks.
It is offered in black or white 
and features the same 10-hour battery life as its predecessor, the iPad 2.
Pitts said the new iPad is es-
sentially a “beefed-up iPad 2.”
“The screen resolution is in-
credible,” he said. “It’s higher than most people’s high-defini-tion TVs.”
According to Macworld Maga-
zine’s website, iPads preordered through the Apple store are sold out, and high demand has led to shipping delays of two to three weeks for new orders.
Corresponding with the third 
generation iPad’s release, the iPad 2 prices dropped on March 7, according to Apple’s website. A 16-gigabyte iPad 2 now starts at $399.
Pitts said the price drop is 
likely to lead many students to choose the iPad 2 rather than the newer model.
Twenty-year-old accounting ju-
nior Kelly Collar said she doesn’t think the iPad will be a necessary purchase for her because she al-ready has an iPhone. She said the upgraded iPad doesn’t seem worth the extra cost.
“If I was going to buy one, I 
would buy an older one because I feel like it would be a much better value,” Collar said.
Sonya Sarkar, a 21-year-old 
economics junior, said the brand alone makes the cost worth it to her.
“I would buy it because I just 
love Apple,” she said. “And I’d buy the newer one because it would have more features.” UF bookstore gets new iPad  
today sans student discount
KELLY PRICE
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students will be able to see the 
Pilobolus dance company per -
form this weekend without turn-
ing their wallets inside-out.
The company , known for its 
contortionists who form objects such as cars and trees with their bodies, will perform Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
This is Pilobolus’ fourth trip to 
UF and part of the company’s 40th anniversary tour.
The company performed shad-
ow works on “Late Night with Conan O’Brien” and appeared in a Hyundai commercial and OK Go’s “All is Not Lost” music video.
Renee Jaworski, Pilobolus as-
sociate artistic director, said she hopes audience members will leave the performance inspired by the human body.
“We take what we’re capable 
of as humans and make it interest-ing,” said Jaworski, a member of the Pilobolus team since 2000.
Pilobolus, which is based in 
Washington Depot, Conn., has three artistic directors, 120 original works and about 25 dancers. The company creates three original productions every year.
Phillips Center spokesman 
Todd Taylor said this is a great op-portunity for students.
Taylor said when Pilobolus 
came to the Phillips Center in 2008, 1,340 tickets were sold. He expects about 1,000 attendees on Sunday.
Tickets are available online and 
cost $12 for UF students. General admission tickets range from $20 to $40. Phillips Center to host 
contortionist dance group
“I would buy it because I 
just love Apple.”
Sonya Sarkar
economics junior4, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
On campus
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ORLANDO — Members of a self-de-
scribed black militia group will attempt a 
citizen’s arrest on a white neighborhood watch leader who admitted to fatally shoot-ing an unarmed African-American teen in an Orlando suburb, but has not been charged, a leader of the group said Thursday.
Members of The New Black Liberation 
Militia plan to take 28-year-old George Zim-merman to federal authorities next week since local police haven’t acted, said Najee Muhammad, a leader of the militia group.
“We’ll find him,” Muhammad said. 
“We’ve got his mug shot and everything.”
Sanford police investigated but have de-
clined for now to arrest Zimmerman, who says he acted in self-defense last month when he shot 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. Police say they have no evidence to disprove his as-sertion. They have since turned the case over to the State Attorney’s Office, and a spokes-woman said it could be weeks before a de-cision is made on whether to file charges or present the case to a grand jury.
An attorney for the teen’s family said they 
are discouraging actions such as what the mi-litia proposed.
“They want justice at the hands of authori-
ties and nobody else,” said attorney Benjamin Crump. “Everybody has a right to peacefully assemble but we certainly want to leave any kind of arrests ... to the authorities.”
A spokesman for Sanford police didn’t 
return an email seeking comment on the mi-litia group’s plans. Zimmerman has a discon-nected number and couldn’t be reached for comment.
Moments before the shooting, Zimmer -
man had called police to report a suspicious person in the neighborhood. After a confron-tation, he shot and killed Martin, who was walking back from a convenience store to a house in the Sanford neighborhood where the teen’s father’s fiancée lived.
Out of a population of 54,000, about 57 
percent of Sanford residents are white and 31 percent are black, according to the 2010 U.S. Census. The median income is about $43,000.
Martin’s family has criticized police for 
not arresting Zimmerman. They filed a law-suit asking that the 911 tapes be released, but police said the tapes are part of the in-vestigation and will only be released once the State Attorney’s Office is done evaluating the case.
A spokeswoman for the Southern Poverty 
Law Center, a civil rights group that moni-tors hate groups, said her organization didn’t have any information on The New Black Lib-eration Militia. 
Photos on the site show men dressed in 
fatigues and berets.
There is no mention of citizen’s arrests in 
Florida’s criminal statutes but state courts have cited common law in establishing when such an arrest can be made. The crime has to be a felony. It has to be witnessed by the citizen making the arrest or the citizen must have probable cause that the person being ar -
rested is guilty of a felony.
Orlando criminal defense attorney Pat-
rick Cairns said members of the militia face a high legal hurdle in taking such action since they didn’t witness a crime. They could be charged with false imprisonment if they de-tain Zimmerman.
Militia group wants to arrest Fla. watch leader suspectMICHAEL SCOTT DAVIDSON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Twenty-five senior, graduate and professional-school 
students were accepted into the UF Hall of Fame on Mon-
day.
The students were recognized for their commitment 
to improving the student experience, especially through campus leadership.
“It’s literally the culmination of everything I’ve done 
at UF,” said Jason Putnam Hancock, who was chosen for induction. He is pursuing a master’s degree at UF in in-formation systems and operations management.
About 80 students competed for UF’s highest recogni-
tion for student leaders by submitting an application, es-say, resume and letter of recommendation to the selection committee.
The eight members of the committee judged the ap-
plicants based on their UF leadership, said Jeanna Mas-trodicasa, assistant vice president of student affairs and chairwoman of the Committee.
“We’re looking for people that left a positive impact,” 
she said. “We’re looking for people that made a difference. We’re looking for people that exemplify excellence.”
Students accepted into the UF Hall of Fame this semes-
ter received an email Monday from the office of the vice president of Student Affairs. It was signed by the UF Hall of Fame selection committee. An induction ceremony will be held April 3 in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
Inducted students’ pictures will join those of Stephen 
C. O’Connell, Tim Tebow and other UF Hall of Fame members. The pictures are on display on the third floor of the Reitz Union.Micah Lewis, a political science senior and first-time 
applicant, was one of the undergraduate students ac-cepted this year. He said he thought his essay about co-operating with students with different political beliefs as former Student Government Senate president gave him a competitive edge over other applicants.
“I think that because that lesson [rang] so true to me, it 
really appealed to the selection committee,” he said.
Lewis said he focused on improving the university 
through SG. As Student Senate president, he hosted the first Senate Outreach Day and authored the legislation to switch to electronic voting for SG elections.
Hancock, who has held two officer positions with the 
Interfraternity Council, said the award recognized his and his peers’ efforts to improve UF during their time as stu-dents.
“It shows that hard work, determination and passion 
pays off sometimes in ways you never would have ex-pected,” he said.Twenty-five students to be inducted into UF’s Hall of Fame
The watch leader shot a 17-year-old in February“I think that because that lesson [rang] so 
true to me, it really appealed to the selection 
committee.”
Micah Lewis
UF senior FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
� THE TEMPLE WILL 
REMAIN ON CAMPUS THROUGH MARCH 24.
JOY KING
Alligator Contributing Writer
A life-size temple made of 
PVC pipes and cloth will take 
up most of the real estate on the Reitz Union North Lawn next week.
Messiah’s Mansion, a Chris-
tian organization from Har -
rah, Okla., began constructing a scale version of a biblical temple on the North Lawn late Wednesday night. When completed, the 75-by-100-foot model will stand 15 feet tall.
“It’s a copy of God’s house 
in heaven,” said Carolyn Lein-neweber, director of Messiah’s Mansion. The blueprint for the temple comes from the Book of Exodus in the Bible, she said.
Leinneweber, 50, has been 
running Messiah’s Mansion with her husband full-time since 2003. They received an invitation from UF Seventh-Day Adventist group Baby Isaac and were given two days to complete the project.
About 30 to 40 volunteers 
from Baby Isaac, Messiah’s Mansion and Gainesville Sev-enth-Day Adventist Church are helping build the temple.
They will give 15-minute 
tours of the tabernacle from Saturday through March 24. Tours will be open from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. Saturdays and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sunday through Friday.
Each project costs about 
$15,000 dollars and is funded entirely by donations, she said.
Thomson Paris, vice presi-
dent of Baby Isaac, said the group has been trying to get Messiah’s Mansion to come to UF for more than a year.
“The religious museum 
will allow students to experi-ence what life was like during biblical times,” he said.Biblical temple to be 
built on North LawnWADE MILLWARD
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can go “Around the World in 30 Days” 
with International Month, which ends in April.
Volunteers for International Student Affairs, or VISA, 
is hosting the annual event that began this week. The 
student organization showcases different cultures. This year’s theme is “Around the World in 30 Days.”
Events will include a fashion show, a benefit ball and 
a Saturday pageant show.
According to VISA President and English junior Al-
exandra Bargoot, 21, about 100 people attended Mon-day’s opening ceremonies.This year’s budget for International Month is about 
$52,000, she said.
Satvika Ponnavolu, International Month director and 
president of the Indian Student Association, said the March 24 benefit ball is the only event that participants are charged to attend. Tickets are $10 in advance and $12 at the door.
The 21-year-old biology senior said the money will 
benefit Save the Children and Gainesville-based Food4-Kids Backpack Program.
Bargoot said this is the 50th anniversary of the VISA 
talent show, which closes International Month on April 7. 
She said she expects about 3,500 people to attend.International Month kicks off on campusON CAMPUS
KAT HARLAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
As St. Patrick’s Day revelers be-
gin their celebrations in Midtown, 
Jason McKibben will be going bald for children with cancer.
The political science freshman 
committed to having his head shaved today during the Freshman Leadership Council’s St. Baldrick’s Day fundraiser from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. at Flavet Field.
During the event, participants 
known as “shavees” volunteer to have their heads shaved in support of the fight against childhood can-cer. They have the option to donate at least 8 to 10 inches of their hair.
The St. Baldrick’s Foundation is 
a national organization that raises funds for childhood cancer research.As of Thursday evening, 15 sha-vees have raised $5,255. A few have raised more than $1,000 each.
McKibben, whose blond hair just 
reaches his shoulders, said he has had long hair since his freshman year of high school. At first, McKib-ben said he was hesitant to shave his head and get rid of his “beach bum look.”
“I thought about it a little bit,” 
he said. “It’s children with cancer. I don’t really know how anyone can say no to that.”
McKibben said he was inspired 
by his high school physics teacher’s 2-year-old son, Greg Grasso, who underwent 21 chemotherapy treat-ments in the last 15 months for the cancer in his eyes.
Greg finds out if he is cancer-free 
the same day that McKibben will have his head shaved.
For more information, visit www.
stbaldricks.org/events/uf.Volunteers to shave heads for child cancer
“It’s children with cancer. 
I don’t really know how any -
one can say no to that.”
Jason McKibben
freshmanReader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to letters@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnEditorialFRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR84 TOTAL VOTES65% YES
35% NOThursday’s question: Did you complete 
FAFSA? Today’s question: Are you Irish?Ladies and gentleman, put on your green, get out your 
shamrocks, hide your gold from those greedy leprechauns, 
eat some corned beef ‘n’ cabbage and have a pint of Guinn— uh, green Kool-Aid, because tomorrow’s St. Patty’s Day!
Before you start celebrating the day of Irish cultural ste-
reotypes (no, they really do drink a lot), take some time to read this week’s Gainesville-doesn’t-really-need-an-excuse-based-on-a-religious-holiday-commemorating-the-patron-saint-of-Ireland-to-party-but-we’ll-take-it edition of ... 
Darts & Laurels
In the spirit of this weekend’s festivities, we start by throw-
ing a you-do-realize-that-just-because-it’s-green-doesn’t-mean-it’s-Irish DART to the youngsters who indulge in green 
food coloring-tinted beverages instead of actual Irish brews.
Have a nice stout or an Irish cream ale, not some gross 
green High Life.
Despite the bill that passed the state legislature last week 
allowing UF and Florida State University to raise their tuition higher than the 15 percent annual limit, tuition at UF may not be rising as quickly as originally suspected.
For stating that he would wait to increase tuition to nation-
al average rates until Fall 2013, we give a way-to-step-on-the-breaks LAUREL to UF President Bernie Machen . Machen 
also said that he would initially only raise tuition to market rates for incoming freshmen.
You may now release some of the pressure from your wal-
let.
Got your brackets ready for the NCAA basketball tourna-
ment? So does the president of the United States.
Well, sort of.For thinking that USF stood for the University of San Fran-
cisco and not the University of South Florida, we throw a hey-isn’t-something-going-on-in-the-Middle-East DART to 
President Obama.
The last thing you want to do in an election season is piss 
off Floridians.
Finally, a controversial business plan developed by New 
York-based marketing firm BBH Labs and used during Aus-tin’s South by Southwest technology convention had a lot of people both fired up and amused.
The firm made homeless people in Austin during the con-
ference walking “wireless hotspots.” They paid the volun-teers from the homeless shelter $20 a day and let them keep all of the donations given to them in return for using the wire-less service.
Contrary to the criticism and accusations of exploitation, 
we’re giving a what-an-innovative-way-to-make-the-home-less-visible-to-others-while-also-helping-them-make-some-money LAUREL to BBH Labs and the homeless shelter 
Front Steps, which helped put this program together.
The homeless volunteers were not forced to participate. 
What’s wrong with helping people make a few extra bucks?
Have a fun and safe weekend, and be sure to check back 
next week.‘Imagine’ message often misunderstood
Following the 9/11 attacks in 2001, the country was, 
naturally, reeling emotionally. People were shocked — almost 3,000 people dead, families torn apart, 
iconic American architecture and symbolism utterly de-stroyed, our proud military headquarters damaged. An attack of this magnitude hadn’t been seen before. For the first time in decades, Americans didn’t feel safe.
In that same month, according to a New York Times 
article, Clear Channel Communications, a company that owns the most AM and FM radio stations in America, in-ternally circulated a list of de facto banned songs. When the list’s circulation broke to the media, Clear Channel claimed it hadn’t banned the songs outright, and that the songs had been “graylisted,” or put on a voluntary black-list for individual stations to decide.
The songs “graylisted” were deemed “lyrically ques-
tionable.” Artists whose songs were rumored to appear on the list included Tom Petty, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Bruce Springsteen, Frank Sinatra, The Beatles, Louis Armstrong and Billy Joel. One popular song among them was “Imag-ine” by John Lennon. The song’s message was so powerful that Neil Young performed it on “America: A Tribute to Heroes,” a huge TV fundraiser that aired 10 days after the attacks.
There are debates about this song all the time. Some 
claim it is socialist in nature and therefore un-American. Clear Channel seemed to have agreed when it “graylist-ed” the song — a completely wrong move.
There is little doubt “Imagine” promotes world peace. 
It declares that without countries and religion, there would be “nothing to kill or die for,” and without possessions, there would be “no need for greed or hunger.” Lennon states that a world without these things would be a world with “all the people living life in peace.”
Detractors like Clear Channel would say the hippie 
song disguises a sinister idea: that beneath the overt peo-ple-sitting-Indian-style-in-a-circle-holding-hands-and-chanting-“kumbaya” message lies some sort of socialist propaganda.
They’d say Lennon was calling for people to give up on religion, the moral compass of life, and become atheist, anarchi-cally relinquish affiliation to their country and let go of the mate-rial possessions they worked hard for so everyone could eat and live in a more equal station of life. The people who think this just don’t get it.
In truth, underlying the world 
peace message, Lennon subtly and profoundly pointed out a significant flaw in humanity: that we are “taught” (for lack of a better term) to discriminate against people based on manmade conceptions, and that fact ultimately divides people. Lennon pointed out religion, country and posses-sions specifically. Man made religion, not God. Man made countries. Man makes material possessions, and material possessions are a function of money, another device made by man. It’s precisely through these “boxes,” which we manufactured ourselves, that society has conditioned us to judge people. We’ve been taught to hate.
Consider religious wars like the Crusades and the soon-
to-be conflict between Israel and Iran. Consider America’s “Islamophobia.” Countries that go to war to improve their positions — virtually every single war. Consider preju-dices made about entire peoples because of their govern-ment.
Are the people who live in China genuinely bad people 
or does their government simply pose a threat to our gov-ernment? Consider how jealous people can be when their classmates, neighbors or coworkers get new cars, and con-sider how that jealousy breeds resentment.
Resist the society-made boxes and the pull to place 
people in them. We are all humans sharing one earth with similar capacities and struggles. Imagine that with com-passion and understanding, we can solve problems and change the world. If more people understood John Len-non’s “Imagine,” the world would indeed “live as one.”
Chris Ceresa is a math and classics junior at UF. His col-
umn appears on Fridays.
Chris Ceresa
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012  ALLIGATOR, 7
As we get closer to graduation, more of us are looking 
to make the kind of money we’ve never seen in our lives at new jobs. Friends all around me are getting 
the dreaded boot from their parents.
No more phone coverage, car insurance or food money. 
Most people have no clue how to manage money, and they waste a lot of their ﬁ  rst-year salaries because of it.
UF grads entering the real world should establish a plan 
now to save for big goals such as retirement and a home and not buy anything major in the ﬁ  rst year unless it’s necessary — steer clear of salespeople of all stripes.
I’ve mentioned this before, but if you’re 22 or 23 the big-
gest gift you can give yourself is to sign up for your com-pany’s 401(k) plan. 
Finances might bore you, but commit to contributing at 
least until the company won’t match anymore and choose the lowest cost stock index fund if you have one.
At about 9 percent annual return, large U.S. company 
stock has returned more than it did in the past 25 years or so. Investing $10,000 at 22 is like investing $67,275 at age 42.
Also, any mortgages you get through the Federal Hous-
ing Administration require a 5 percent down payment. 
It might take a while to get together $10,000 for a $200,000 
house unless you put away a small amount of money per month for about 48 months for that purpose.
If you want a private loan so you won’t have to pay extra 
for private mortgage insurance, you need 20 percent down. So start saving for the future as soon as you start a new job.
When athletes, doctors, law-
yers and the like pass the arduous processes required to get the big bucks, many tend to immediately buy the big stuff like houses, boats, luxury cars and more. 
If you’re making $50,000 a year, 
you probably can’t afford a high-quality house in many areas if you operate on the don’t-buy-a-house-more-than-three-times-your-income rule.
If buying a house right out of school is a bad decision, 
then I think buying a brand new car for more than $25,000 has to be worse. Nothing loses its value faster than a new car. In fact, that new-car smell probably costs at least 100 times as much as any extravagant fragrance you’ve purchased.
If you must have a car, look for something 1 to 4 years old 
so someone else can take the $10,000 to $20,000 price drop.
Did you go to Career Fair and see that Northwestern 
Mutual was hiring, or read that the Modern Woodmen have many jobs for qualiﬁ  ed UF grads? The reason is the com-panies are hiring insurance salespeople, which costs next to nothing.
The companies put a lot of pressure on new employees to 
leverage the companies’ social circle to sell insurance prod-ucts such as whole life, universal life and more. I would almost guarantee you will get at least one ac-
quaintance from college who’ll ask you to buy some ﬁ  nan-cial product he or she is selling.
The insurance companies give their salespeople a huge 
commission for each “elephant they kill,” so let the buyer beware. Once you start a family, it will make sense to have a term life insurance, but whole life insurance is usually sold as an investment, and it’s not a very good one.
In general, you want to protect against massive losses that 
could bankrupt you. Whenever you buy an insurance poli-cy, ask for a high deductible because losing $100 shouldn’t make you lose sleep, but losing $100,000 should and that’s what you need protection for.
For investing, if any ﬁ  nancial adviser/broker/wealth 
manager approaches you to do something, please ask him or her if he or she is ﬁ  duciary, the legal obligation to act in your best interest. This one word will scare away most ﬁ  -nancial salespeople.
Save and invest for the future. Don’t spend on the big-
ticket items, and beware of anyone who wants to sell you ﬁ  nancial products — you will go far.
I know it’s tough to give up all those perks our parents 
have been giving us for the past 22 years of our lives.
You might start by asking Siri if that new iPhone is really 
necessary.
Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at UF. 
His column regularly appears on Mondays.Students should start ﬁ  nancial planning right out of collegeGuest column
Travis Hornsby
opinions@alligator.orgwith a standards board.
“I just heard about this situation 
a few hours ago,” Gordian said. 
“I’ve been in meetings all evening and haven’t had time to get to the bottom of what happened.”
Mobley worked with two other 
people, according to Gainesville Po-lice, whose investigation is still in progress.
“Other arrests are more than like-
ly forthcoming,” said GPD spokes-woman Cpl. Angelina Valuri.
At about 6 p.m. Wednesday, 
Mobley and the two other people planned to steal six boxes of “Black Roll Out Plastic Sheeting” from the Home Depot at 5150 NW 13th St, police said.
The three men loaded the sheets 
on a cart near the garden center exit, and Mobley distracted a cashier as the other two people rolled the cart to the parking lot.
Security officers watched this on a 
surveillance video, according to po-lice. Earlier Wednesday, employees from the Home Depot on Northwest 75th Street warned the employees of the Northwest 13th Street location about the three suspicious people.
Workers at the 75th Street store 
followed three people around the store before they left without buy-ing anything.
In the parking lot at the 13th 
Street store, Mobley and the other two people loaded the sheets into the back of a car, but security offi-cer Gaylord Wagaman confronted them.
They took the sheets out of the 
car and lingered for a few minutes, according to police. But the three suspects then got back in the car and drove off, hopping a curb and almost hitting several vehicles be-fore speeding off on Northwest 13th Street.
Wagaman was on the phone with 
911 when they left. From the surveil-lance video, GPD determined the car belonged to another fraternity mem-ber, whose name was not released.
Officers contacted Mobley on 
Thursday morning, and he turned himself in at the GPD Criminal In-vestigations Building.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.
org and Samantha Shavell at sshavell@alilgator.org.Suspect worked with two 
other people, police say8, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
Faculty members talked insurance
However, even if the governor approves 
market-rate tuition, it probably wouldn’t be im-
posed in the fall, Machen said.
Going straight to the market rate would mean 
an increase of about 40 percent. Machen said to be fair, he’d rather wait until Fall 2013 to allow families considering UF to plan for the cost.
Another side of the plan would introduce 
flat-rate tuition, meaning students would pay the same amount for tuition throughout their degree programs so families can plan for similar expenses over four years. Tuition would increase with incoming freshman classes.
During the meeting, Machen opened the 
floor to faculty members with questions about GatorCare.
Some were concerned about whether off-
campus and retired faculty would be covered under the plan. Machen said they would.
“Wherever you are, we got you covered,” he 
said.
Machen encouraged faculty to keep voicing 
their concerns and suggestions. He said the only way UF can create a self-insurance plan to fit 
everyone is if they continue to share.
Bernard Mair, associate 
provost for undergraduate af-fairs, and Dave Kratzer, asso-ciate vice president for student 
affairs, gave an update on the anti-hazing task force.
Mair and Kratzer said peo-
ple will soon be able to look 
up organizations’ conduct history online to see if a hazing complaint has been made against it.
“We want to be very transparent and very 
clear with our students,” Kratzer said.FACULTY , from page 1
Machen
THEFT , from page 1CriME
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Gregory M. Milner pushed a key into the 
front door of the apartment around 6:30 p.m. 
Wednesday and tried to open it. The key didn’t fit. From inside, the women heard a soft clang.
“Open the door,” Milner said, according to 
Gainesville Police. “I know you’re in there.”
One of the women called 911. Milner, who 
lives a floor below, had more keys. Somehow, he got one that worked, but the deadbolt was locked.
Minutes later, GPD officer Christopher King 
arrived, and Milner was arrested on four counts of stalking. Milner, 29, is being held at the Ala-chua County Jail in lieu of a $400,000 bond.
Stephanie Coronado, a psychology senior, 
lives at The Estates with three other girls. They didn’t use to lock the deadbolt. They covered the handle in tape to remind them.
“We basically had a rule: Don’t use it,” said 
Stephanie Coronado, a psychology senior. “We were afraid one of us would get stuck outside. Then, we met Greg.”
Before Milner showed up at their doorstep 
Wednesday , Coronado and Gianessa Nieto, an exploratory freshman, were preparing to go to The Estates gym. When they first heard scratch-Man charged with stalking women
sEE s TALK, p AgE 9ing in the keyhole, they as-
sumed a roommate was com-ing home.
“It was only a matter of 
seconds,” Coronado said. “We were about to leave. That’s scary as hell.”
Coronado first met Milner 
in mid-January . While she was in the apartment complex’s computer lab, Milner struck up a conversation with her. He talked for about an hour about a thesis he was writing about massage therapy, she said.
Soon after, Milner met Nieto 
and the other two roommates: Jillian Koenig, a business fresh-man, and Alisha Badger, a San-ta Fe student.
While the women were 
exercising together in their apartment in January , Milner knocked on the door and asked if they were in a band. He lin-gered at the door, Coronado said, but he eventually left.
From then on, Milner ap-
peared almost everywhere.
“Any time we’re at the pool, 
any time we’re at the gym, he shows up immediately ,” Nieto said. “We don’t know where he comes from.”
He knocked on the door 
again in early February and told them their parents were downstairs, waiting to greet them. One of the women called The Estates front office, and management asked Milner to never contact the victims again, according to police.
That didn’t work, Nieto 
said. Milner kept showing up when they walked outside, and his actions culminated Wednesday . The women were frightened thinking about how Milner found a key.
They are also angry at The 
Estates management. Milner was on probation for a stalking charge in January 2008, accord-ing to the Florida Department of Corrections. An employee told the women the complex does not do background checks on its residents, Badger said.
Nieto said 
an Estates manager of-
fered to let the women move to an-other apart-ment within the complex. That’s not 
good enough, they said. They want out — out of The Estates and out of their leases.
A woman at The Estates call 
center said Thursday night it was too late for the Alligator to get a comment concerning the women’s situation. Koenig was especially worried. In January , she signed a lease for next year.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@
alligator.org.
Man had stalking record FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 9
Elizabeth Hamilton / Alligator
Wall Must Fall
Ayesha Sayed, a 19-year-old criminology, sociology and psychology major, chants “Free Palestine” with 
other members of Students for Justice in Palestine on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday after-noon.
STALK , from page 8
Milner
FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
Come Get LUCKY at LEX…….
OPEN HOUSE THIS SAT!!!
12-5pm
Come view All-Inclusive private suites
Free upgrade to a 3/3 !!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
Raffle for a $100 Gift Card!!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1THE POLOS
NOW-ROOMATE MATCHING on 3/3’s
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDEDNO MOVE IN COST.WE DO SEMISTER LEASINGFrances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    9-28-12-85-1
Furn. 1BR/1BA in a 4/4 with 3 other girls.
$350/mo. utilities included, Countryside Condos. avl. Mar 1. Jim -cell 305-664-1680, work 305-852-4044.   3-27-12-10-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 second 
walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED 3BR/BR Apt Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDsQuiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave. Across from Law School
$1650 - Special spring rate. 4BR/2BA
W/D, DW, Cent AC/Heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-30-12-53-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2BR/1BA Sun Key units starting at $550
2BR/1.5BA Sun Harbor units starting at $575
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    3-30-12-52-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $625/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   4-4-12-45-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   3-30-12-44-2
Trend's Student Rentals of the Month!
Biven's North - Huge 3BR Lakefront
The Lofts - 3BR condo on Univ Ave
Near Law School - 3/2 1,907 sf
Text "Trend" to 313131
Trend4Rent.com
4-25-74-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor units $525
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
MERRILL MANAGEMENT INC.
825 NW 13th Street352-372-1494 x10www.merrillmanagement.com
2BR2BA  Condo  in Turkey Creek
Carpet, Dishwasher, Laundry Hkups,Close to Alachua & Gainesville 11426 NW 67th Terrace  $800/Mo  
2BR 1BA Apt 1 BLK to UF, 
Carpet, Central H & Air, CarpetLaundry., Inclds Wtr and Swg. $800/MoCan reserve for Summer or Fall now.Grad II 1236 SW 4th Avenue
2BR 1BA Apt Robert Obrien Apts
Carpet, Window A/C, Nat Gas HtNear Sams Club/Walmart  $500/Mo2901 NW 14th Street
2BR 1BA House in Oaks of Kanapaha
4845 SW 57th Drive $725/MoCarpet, Central H & Air, Laundry hkupsOff Archer Rd. 3-16-12-19-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
1bed/1bath units starting at $4752bed/2bath units starting at $550
Reduced Deposits for Full Time Grads!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720/352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica-tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
3BR/2BA HOUSE, near UF, VA, Shands. 
3627 SW 15th St. across from I-Hop. Fenced large backyard, fireplace. Available $850/mo. Prefer students or professionals 327-2931 or 376-6183. 1BR/BA Suite Also Avail $375/mo   3-22-11-26-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & 
Butler Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com 3-19-11-50-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
3 & 4 bedroom upgraded apartments
*$0 to sign $100 gift card/rent credit
Call today spaces going fast!
Thecrossingatsantafe.com 379.9300
4-25-12-43-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099       3-27-12-20-21.5 miles to UF in NW Gville. Luxury 2bd/2ba 
condo in small community: walk-in closets, W/D, vaulted ceilings, balcony, 1410 sqft. Built 2006. $900/month. Pets OK. 359-1112 or katewallis83@yahoo.com. Avail. March 1    3-21-12-15-2.
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings for Vets who qualify under Section 8 Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laundry 372-3783    3-29-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.Water, sewer, garbage provided.Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    3-29-12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   3-29-12-20-2
Very vice 3/3 Rockwood $800/m
lg bedroom, closet and nice bathClose to UF, I-75 and bus routesall appliance inc(washer & dryer)Call Jared at (941)737-6997   3-19-12-12-2
4BR/4BA Beautifully Renovated condo spa-
cious kitchen, living area, and bedrooms par-tially furnished. W/D in unit. Great bus rts ten min to UF & shopping. $325/ room. Must rent all rooms at same time. Call(941)-232-1960    4-13-12-31-2Avail Aug 1st. 4BR/2BA house. Very private 
backyard, btw UF & Santa Fe. W/D provided, pets OK, tile throughout. 1330 NW 39th St. Call 352-339-2342. $1200/mo. More info & pictures: gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   3-16-12-39-2
Cute HOUSES for Aug 1
View at www.10houses.comCent H/A, W/D providedQuiet Areas Bike to UF352-316-0154 nancy@10houses.com   3-22-12-10-2
DUCKPOND DUPLEX $700- big oak tree, 
UF near, busline, carport, immaculate, carpet, 
2br/1ba, WD hookup, CHA, fans, DW, burglar bars, postj@bellsouth.net; 352 284 3873; 352 376 0080. Prefer grads/quiet adults.   4-4-12-19-2
***5 BEDROOM HOUSE***
Walk to class! Lots of parking. Wood floors. 
Clean. Available August 1st. Contact John 
@ 561-866-8234 for further info.
3-16-5-2
3BR/2BA CHARMING 1950's HOUSE
Walk/bike to UF. Small pet ok. W/D, $1295/mo. Avail August 1st.OPEN HOUSE March 17th, 11:00am - 3:00pm. 352-371-0601   410 NW 26th St.    3-23-12-10-2
Beautiful 2-story house. 2.5 miles from UF. 
5BR/2.5BA 2400sq.ft. on large treed lot. Very quiet neighbrhd. H/W & tile floors, ceiling fans, W/D, ref, stove, dishwasher. $1600/mo & security deposit. 727-686-1404    3-20-12-5-23 Bed House $795/mo available now &
Aug. Central AC, wooden floors, w/d
hook-ups, and a vintage style walking
distance to campus and downtown.
University Ave & NW 8th st area. By Leo
706 Call now! 352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
3-27-12-10-2
***WALK OR BIKE TO UF ***
3/2 vintage home or 2/2 apt includes park-
ing, available August 2012. Call Carolyn 352-538-3556 or email alligatoralley@cox.net4-10-12-20-2
2BR/2.5BA LUXURY CONDO
1/2 mile from campus. On busline. Free in-
ternet. W/D, clubhouse. $825/mo. Call 352-332-8841    3-27-12-10-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
               ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100               ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500               ●/3 house 3514 nw 7 pl $1500               ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15003-20-12-5-2
EXCELLENT SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
3BR/2BA & 4BR/3BA. Close to UF.630 NW 34th Terr / 611 NW 36th Terr /3404 NW 7th Pl. Call Mike 352-665-7316 Pets OK.   4-12-12-20-2DON’T WAIT
TO PLACE 
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 25th.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT 
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
Short-term sublease until (now-July) Hunters 
Crossing complex (NW G'ville Millhopper) 2BR/2FB + Den, patio, cathedral ceilings, walk in closets, W/D connect (rentals avail-able), garage optional, townhouse style, (separate entrance) exercise gym, pool, hot tub, sauna, racquet ball-basketball-tennis courts, sand volleyball, playground! Pets al-lowed (2 pet maximum). No limit on size of pets. $911 saving $239 (regular lease amount is $1,150). www.hunterscrossing.com for pic-tures; 352-262-5899 or sisterkatrina@yahoo   3-19-12-4-3
University House Summer Sublease
$550/mo - 1BR/1BA in a 3BR/3BAAll inclusive and fully furnished6 blocks to UFContact 941-286-8316   3-19-4-3
LIVE ACROSS FROM CAMPUS $770 - bus 
line, ample parking, carpet, 3br/2ba, pool, 24hr maint, quiet neighbors, WD hookup, pets OK jaesonaeolis@gmail.com; 352 274 7481   3-16-12-3-3
Two bedroom two bath apartment available 
for sublease available on April 1 2012 at Stoneridge Apartments For information call Carlos 954-732-3962 or Jorge 954-594-9878    3-23-12-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455Greenwich Green 372-8100Hidden Lake 374-38664-25-72-4
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDEDNO MOVE IN COST.WE DO SEMISTER LEASINGFrances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    9-28-12-85-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 6/1/12    4-11-12-20-4
12, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        4-25-12-72-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/mat-
tress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. $130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facil-
ity. We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   8-15-58-11
2009 - BASH SCOOTERAs-is. $485 firm.
Call 352-870-2438    3-20-12-3-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
94 FORD TAURUS $900
98 DODGE AVENGER $150096 CADILLAC DEVILLE $170098 GRAND AM $1999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
97 FORD EXPLORER $1700
96 TOYOTA CAMRY $199997 MITS MIRAGE $250098 NISSAN ALTIMA $2500352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
01 DODGE NEON $1999
98 CHEVY VENTURE $299995 CHEVY BLAZER $299998 DODGE DURANGO $4999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $250002 KIA RIO $350000 HONDA ACCORD $3999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
 FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 13
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS30 DAY WARRANTY352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!30 DAY WARRANTY!NO CREDIT CHECK!352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
01 NISSAN ALTIMA $6999
04 NISSAN SENTRA $699902 TOYOTA CAMRY $699904 CHEVY ASTRO $6999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
04 HONDA ACCORD $7999
04 CHEVY IMPALA $799902 HONDA ODYSSEY $799901 TOYOTA SOLARA $7999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
05 FORD F150 $10,99906 SATURN ION $11,99907 FORD MUSTANG $12,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
1999 Volvo V70 Wagon, Runs and drives 
great, well maintained with all scheduled maintenance/oil changes, Ice cold A/C, New tires with recent oil change and alignment 157K $3500.00 OBO. 352-214-3741   3-19-11-5-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  3-23-12-74-13BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14
$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
Food Science and Human Nutrition at 
the University of Florida is conducting a 
research study for women 20-40 yo on 
birth control pills. Compensation given. For 
details call Bonnie Coats at 273-9014
3-19-30-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-
ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer day camp pro-gram. Positions in the camp are available in our Pre-Kindergarten, Kindergarten, and our elementary school age day camps offered at Oak Hall. A total of 8 FT and PT counselor positions plus 2 FT Head Counselor positions are available for the summer. Individuals for the day camp should be available to work daily from June 11-July 27. Interested ap-plicants should submit a resume to Maggie Martin via e-mail at mmartin@oakhall.org by March 16th. Interview information regarding group interview on March 17th will be sent out upon receipt.   3-16-12-15-14
!!ATTN SMOKERS!! You're needed to par-
ticipate in a study conducted by the UF Smoking Lab assessing effects of exercise on cravings, withdrawal, and/or smoking. Compensation provided!! Call 336-406-3706 or email uflsmokelab@gmail.com    3-23-19-14
Web Programmer wanted for Gainesville 
web design company. ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server, HTML, XML experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    3-20-12-14-14
ATTORNEY WITH MINIMUM TWO YEARS 
EXPERIENCE IN ESTATE PLANNING & BUSINESS LAW wanted for prestigious Sarasota law firm. Please send resume to sarasotalaw@yahoo.com    4-11-12-30-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! 
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics, Office,
Rockwall, Cheer, Dance, Clean/Maint., 
Drivers, B-day Parties, Comm. Events. Visit 
suncountrysports.com/jobs.html for info and to 
download our required application today!
3-16-12-5-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and 
Reliable 371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G    3-30-17-14
Quality child caring center is looking for dedi-
cated people who love working with children. FT/PT, exp. required and a CDA, AA or BA in education. Benefits available with FT. Call 377-2290 or 373-1481    3-21-12-10-14This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising 
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator 
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be available to work Summer C.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are wel-
come to reapply with current schedule. EOE
14, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
Clerical help wanted $10/hr. Mostly online 
typing. Basic computer competency required. A little phone. Work from home. Email ex-cusa.moi@gmail.com Leave msg 352-356-8870 Will get back to you.   3-16-5-14
Retired Professor seeking part-time secre-
tary. Call 352-335-3843    3-16-11-5-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS
Seeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with meal plan sales from May – August on UF campus. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experiences a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com   3-16-4-14
Need Live In Caregiver for elderly man in 
SW Gainesville. Must be able to pass a back ground check (no criminal history) and a drug screen. Compensation: Room/board, small salary, paid vacation, most weekends and evenings off, and other negotiable compen-sation. Call: 352-226-5265    3-19-12-5-14
Weight Loss Sales Consultant
Both part and full time positions available. 
Extremely satisfying and fulfilling dream 
job in a vibrant and uplifting environment 
helping people get healthy. Please e-mail 
resume to chrissie.admin@emetabolic.com
3-16-12-3-14
Seeking a personal assistant.i.e., miscella-
neous errands, phone calls, resolving minor issues, mailings, bill payment and general organizing.You will be paid $550/week send your resume to :lin.da2@aol.com 786-519-3572    3-27-12-10-14
Andrea is leaving to get married. Busy 
law firm seeks F/T admin/legal assistant. Dependable w/great typing and proofreading skills. Exp. w/ Word & Excel. Spanish speak-ing a plus! Pay DOE. Send resume tocarrillolawoffice@gmail.com     3-27-10-14
Sedentary adults needed to participate 
in a study conducted by the UF Get Up and Go Initiative assessing the accuracy & ease of use of an advanced pedometer. COMPENSATION provided! Call 336-406-3706 or email fitbit10000@gmail.com   3-23-8-14
FISH LOVERS WANTED! Excellent sales 
opportunity for someone who loves tropical fish and likes to work with people. Training program, advancement possibilities, flex-ible hours. Work in a clean modern store with great people. Bring resume with ref-erences to Aquatropics, 2100 SW34th Street,Gainesville.   3-22-12-7-14
WAITPERSONS
Evenings & weekends. Experienced & 
friendly. Apply in person, NAPOLATANO'S 606 NW 75th St.   3-20-12-5-14
Students needed for part-time sales, $10-
$12/hr., no experience required, flexible schedules, must have good communication skills, located in Creekside Mall, call Mike 352-533-2201   3-27-10-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 orsmokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   3-27-10-14
Volunteer for Money
Participants needed for one-hour focus group. Must be 18 years or older and attend UF.  We want your perspective on mental health. Completely CONFIDENTIAL. Will receive $20 UF Bookstore gift card and free pizza. Email GatorWellProjects@mail.ufl.edu with subject line Focus Group Volunteer.   3-30-12-14
Programmer Needed
Dilinky, Inc. is looking for an individual to 
create and program a website. Contact Us 
at Help@Dilinky.com.
3-23-5-14Info Tech, Inc. - Info Tech, Inc. is a mar-
ket leader in software for infrastructure 
construction management. Please visit 
our website to apply for open positions:
http://www.infotechfl.com/apply
3-21-12-5-14
Marketing Project Manager wanted for 
Gainesville web design company. Web de-sign/marketing experience required. Email resume to hr@352media.com.    3-23-12-7-14
One serious hardworking and trustworthy UF 
student. Gen or const help, exp w/electrical & plumbing, carpentry, chainsaw &  heavy lifting. Familiar w/ Sketchup or AutoCAD. PT flex hrs. $7.50/hr. 327-2931 or 376-6183     3-19-12-3-14
Medical Billing Trainees Needed! Train to 
become a Medical Office Assistant! No Experience needed! Job Training & Local Placement assistance. HS Diploma/GED & PC/Internet needed! (888)374-7294    3-16-1-14
Freight Up = More $ 2 Mos. CDL Class 
A Driving Exp (877)258-8782 www.melt-ontruck.com/drive    3-16-1-14
"HUGE OPPORTUNITY" NEW CO. 
COMING TO THE AREA, LOOKING FOR (3) PROFESSIONAL SALES PEOPLE W/MANAGEMENT SKILLS...SIX FIGURE INCOME CALL: (302)497-0330 LEAVE MSG    3-16-1-14
Drivers - Hometime Choices: Express lanes 
7/ON-7/OFF, 14/ON-7/OFF. WEEKLY. Full and part-time. Dry and Refrigerated. New Trucks! CDL-A 3 months recent experience required. (800)414-9569 www.driveknight.com    3-16-1-14
Drivers: RUN 5 STATE REGIONAL! Get 
Home Weekends, Earn Up to 39¢/mi, 1 yr OTR Flatbed exp. req'd. SUNBELT TRANSPORT, LLC (800)572-5489 ext. 227    3-16-1-14
Driver- $0 TUITION CDL (A) Training & a 
JOB! Top Industry Pay, Quality Training, Stability & Miles! *Short employment com-mitment required. (800)326-2778 www.JoinCRST.com    3-16-1-14
25 Driver Trainees Needed! Learn to drive 
for TMC Transportation Earn $750 per week! No experience needed! Local CDL Training! Job ready in 3 weeks! (888)368-1964    3-16-1-14
EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERS 
earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. Veterans are welcome. $1000 sign on to qualified drivers. Call: (843)266-3731 bulldoghiway.com EOE    3-16-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 
INSURANCE - WE REPRESENT OVER 100
COMPANIES. HOME, AUTO, LIABILITY.WHY PAY MORE?www.sunshinestateinsurance.comTrusted Choice Agency 352-371-9696    3-23-12-20-15
NEED A PASSPORT?
US Passport Acceptance Facility
3030 Radio Road across fromLakeside Residential Complex9am-3pm, M-F, Ph 352-392-1134    3-20-12-5-15
AIRLINES ARE HIRING - Train for hands 
on Aviation Maintenance Career. FAA ap-proved program. Financial aid if qualified - Housing available CALL Aviation Institute of Maintenance (866)314-3769    3-16-1-15
ATTEND COLLEGE ONLINE from Home. 
*Medical, *Business, *Criminal Justice, *Hospitality. Job placement assistance. Computer available. Financial Aid if qualified. SCHEV certified. Call (877)206-5165 www.CenturaOnline.com    3-16-1-15
"Can You Dig It?" Heavy Equipment School. 
3wk training program. Backhoes, Bulldozers, Trackhoes. Local job placement asst. Start digging dirt Now. (877)994-9904    3-16-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
Special February and March Rates- $99 
Advanced Cardiac Life Support and $35 Basic Life Support(BLS)(CPR).American Heart Association Card issued. Training Gators for 15 years!! Call Cardiac One(352)494-4217.    3-20-12-18-16
HYPNOSIS $23.95
quit smoking, diet, sleep better, stress, memory improvement, and test anxiety. go to www.hypnosisclassestoday.com for info and pre-pay    3-21-12-10-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
HAPPY HOUR @ CHAMPAGNE SALON
$10 Eyebrow Threading
1109 W. University Ave. 215-2873   3-20-5-
20Huge discounts when you buy 2 types of advertising! 122 weekly newspapers, 32 websites, 25 daily newspapers.  Call now to diversify your advertising with Advertising Networks of Florida (866)742-1373    3-16-1-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classiﬁ  eds to ﬁ  nd trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
AMERICAN BULLDOG PUPS
UKC Registered. Top bloodlines. 1M, 1F. White w/spots. $200 each. 386-362-2451 ,gatorlandkennels@windstream.net   3-21-12-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Follow us on Twitter
For live in-game updates and analysis from Florida’s trip to the 
NCAA Tournament, follow beat writer John Boothe (@jjboothe), staff writer Greg Luca (@GregLuca) and Matt Watts (@WattMatts).alligatorSports.org
For all the latest on Gators sports this weekend, including 
stories on the NCAA Tournament and the lacrosse, tennis and gymnastics teams, please visit alligatorSports.org. Hannah Rogers and the Gators softball team kicks off a series against Southeastern Conference foe South Carolina today at home. See story at alligatorSports.org. 
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Florida and point guard Erving Walker (center) will be facing its toughest defense test of the season in Friday’s 
NCAA Tournament game against No. 10 Virginia, which limits opponents to just 53.7 points per game.
� UVA ALLOWING TEAMS TO 
SHOOT JUST 29.5 PERCENT FROM 3-POINT RANGE.
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
After suffering through five 
losses this season against some of 
the nation’s most highly regarded defenses, the Gators thought they were prepared for anything an NCAA Tournament team could possibly throw at them.
In mid-November, they faced 
Ohio State featuring Big Ten steals leader Aaron Craft, who helped the Buckeyes pilfer Florida for 16 turnovers. Two weeks later, UF watched as Syracuse’s vaunted 2-3 zone defense forced 20 against the Gators.
In conference play, the chal-
lenge only grew in difficulty when facing Kentucky and Anthony Da-vis’ 7-foot-4 wingspan. 
Each of those teams finished 
the regular season as a top-25 de-fensive unit, but none of them has been as stingy ahead of the NCAA Tournament as Virginia’s pack-line defense.
When the No. 7 seed Gators 
(23-10) tip off against the No. 10 seed Cavaliers (22-9) today in Omaha, Neb., at 2:10 p.m., they will be shooting on, statistically, the best defensive squad they have faced this year.
“There’s no question that is a 
real strength of their team — how well they defend, how they help each other, the pressure they ap-ply on the ball,” Donovan said. “If you look at their team throughout the course of the year, they are certainly a very sound defensive team.”
Virginia’s scoring defense, 
which allows just 53.7 points per game, is ranked second in the country. This season, the Cava-liers have held 11 opponents to less than 50 points, the most by an Atlantic Coast Conference team dating back to the beginning of the shot-clock era.
However, Virginia isn’t domi-
nating teams defensively with its talent alone. The Cavaliers’ pack-line defense — which was created  at Wisconsin 20 years ago by UVA coach Tony Bennett’s father, Dick — attempts to compensate for a lack of athleticism by clogging the paint and placing its own players around an imaginary, 16-foot arc 
Gators facing tough defensive challenge in opening game
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
When Jeff Driskel enrolled at Flor -
ida last January, the nation’s top-rat-
ed high school quarterback was lost during spring practice; he admittedly had no idea what he was doing.
One forgettable freshman sea-
son and a new offensive coordina-tor later, Driskel said he feels much more comfortable as he battles fellow sophomore Jacoby Brissett for the Gators’ starting job.
“Any time you get any experi-
ence, you’re going to be a lot more comfortable,” Driskel said. “I came in not knowing too much… kinda just throwing the ball around. But [Wednesday’s] practice I felt a lot more comfortable.”Both Driskel and Brissett spoke to 
the media Thursday for the first time since arriving on campus last year, and while both were tight-lipped about who took the first snap of spring practice, wide receiver Quin-
ton Dunbar wasn’t as secretive, saying Driskel got the first rep.
Although the 
sophomore signal-
callers are splitting time within the of-fense, and coach Will Muschamp 
said he has no timetable for nam-ing a starter, Wednesday’s practice marked a step forward for Driskel, Driskel, Brissett speak for 
first time, talk last seasonBASeBALL
BRYAN HOLT
Alligator Writer
 
Vanderbilt will stumble into Gainesville 
this weekend looking like a shell of the 
Southeastern Conference baseball power -
house people tend to think of when the Com-modores are discussed. 
When the No. 1 Gators (16-1) take the field 
at McKethan Stadium tonight at 7, they will see a team with a losing record (7-10) that is near the bottom of the SEC in nearly every statistic. 
Offensively, the Commodores are batting 
just .273 as a team and have struck out 114 times. Defensively, no SEC team has allowed more runs (101) or committed more errors (30). 
“Baseball is a funny game,” UF catcher 
Mike Zunino said. “You could be going bad and then the next thing you know it clicks and they could go on a run. It’s something that we cannot take for granted.”While the Commodores may not march in 
with the best resume in hand, they will ar -
rive to play the Gators with a little sense of normalcy and consistency. That’s because starting on Friday night will be left-handed pitcher Kevin Ziomek, the one constant on a Vanderbilt team that has been all over the place to start 2012. 
Ziomek has given up eight earned runs in 
23.1 innings of work, with his only loss this season coming in an 8-3 defeat on opening night to Stanford, the nation’s No. 2 team. 
But it will not only be Ziomek’s skill set 
and low- to mid-90s fastball that could give the Gators trouble. While it would be con-sidered nitpicking to claim full-blown weak-nesses in the UF batting lineup right now, it is fair to say that lefties have a bit of an ad-vantage against the nation’s most powerful team. 
Of Florida’s top-four leaders in batting 
average, only Zunino bats right-handed. Florida not overlooking Vandy 
despite poor season start
See BASeBALL, p Age 18See FootBALL, p Age 18See HoopS, p Age 16
Driskel
16, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
JOE MORGAN
Alligator Staff Writer
  
The Gators’ return to March 
Madness was shrouded in un-
certainty throughout an up-and-down season.
After falling to Kentucky 71-67 
in the quarterfinals of the South-eastern Conference Tournament on March 2, Florida had to wait 10 days to learn its postseason fate.
Not until Monday did UF 
learn it would face Ohio State in the first round of the NCAA Tournament on Sunday at 12:15 p.m., returning to The Big Dance for the first time since 2009.
After more than a week of 
tweaking their game and hoping for the chance to play for a na-tional championship, the Gators finally had something tangible ahead of them in the Buckeyes.
Not only could UF move for -
ward without worrying about bubbles or RPI rankings, but pre-paring for OSU was also famil-iar.
Like the Gators, the Buckeyes 
employ three-guard lineups, run-ning a guard-oriented offense that gets the majority of its points from the backcourt.
“They kind of do the same 
thing we do as far as using on-ball screens,” senior guard Dea-na Allen added. “Just practicing against that, with us using it as our strength, we already know how to guard and what we want to take away.”
However, that is where the similarities end for Florida and Ohio State.
The two squads’ differences 
can be traced back to Monday, when each earned a berth to the NCAA Tournament.
While the Gators were happy 
just to get into The Big Dance, the Buckeyes expected more 
than a No. 8 seed from the selection com-mittee after going 25-6 and 
finishing in second place in the Big Ten Conference.
“(Ohio State is) a team that’s 
a little disappointed with their seed,” coach Amanda Butler said. “Therefore, probably a little extra measure of hunger and fight in them.”
UF already faces a tall task in 
OSU, the 11th ranked opponent the Gators will face this season. They are 2-8 in those games.
Additionally, the Buckeyes 
are the highest-scoring team (75.1 points per game) the Gators will play this season and boast the second-best 3-point shooting clip (35.9 percent).
Guards Tayler Hill and Sa-
mantha Prahalis provide the ma-jority of Ohio State’s offense, av-eraging 20.3 and 20.1 points per game, respectively.
“It’s a huge challenge for the 
guards,” redshirt senior guard Jordan Jones said. “It’s two of the best guards we’ve played all year on one team, so it’s definitely been a huge focus in practice.”
Florida and Ohio State have 
similar styles, something that has encouraged the Gators in their preparation for the Buckeyes.
“There’s a comfort level 
there,” Butler said. “Even if it’s just with the terminology of un-derstanding what to expect be-cause it’s the same sort of things you’re harping on and trying to perfect.” 
Should the Gators defeat the 
Buckeyes,  they would likely be facing a game against the na-tion’s best player Brittney Griner and Baylor, the tournament’s No. 1 overall seed. 
Florida has not advanced past 
the second round since 1997-98, when the Gators advanced to the Sweet 16 and assistant coach Mur -
riel Page was the star forward.
Contact Joe Morgan at joemor-
gan@alligator.org.
Gators readying for NCAA Tournament, guard-heavy Buckeyes
Butler
Cavaliers limping into tourney after injuries to bench players
around the basket.
Virginia’s defenders won’t cross that 
line until the UF player they’re guarding 
receives a pass. If Brad Beal or Kenny Boyn-ton attempt to drive the lane, the Cavaliers hanging back will try to collapse on him.
“It will be a little bit different for us, so 
to speak,” Donovan said. “We have played teams that don’t necessarily do exactly the same thing, but they are teams that have similar philosophies, similar mindsets in terms of how they play defensively.”
While UVA’s brand of defending wel-
comes teams like the guard-heavy Gators to settle for jump shots, the Cavaliers have done a good enough job closing out to limit their opponents to 29.5 percent shooting behind the 3-point line. 
In their first NCAA Tournament game 
since 2007, though, the low-scoring Cava-liers will be short-handed following a Feb. 17 season-ending left foot injury to fresh-man sixth man Malcolm Brogdon.
Less than a month earlier, they also lost 
senior center Assane Sene to a right ankle 
injury, from which he has yet to return. 
Stuck with 
a seven-man rotation, Virginia has scaled back the pace of its already-snail’s-pace of-fense to a near crawl. The Cavaliers went through the season scoring just 63.1 points per game — good for 10th in the ACC.
“Sometimes it can be difficult when a 
team is really disciplined with the ball and doesn’t turn it over,” UF senior Erving Walker said. “We want to hopefully prob-ably press and keep pushing the pace and get the game going our way.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.
org.
HOOPS , from page 15Similar nature of teams helping Florida prepare
UF Bask etballwho struggled mightily during his 
freshman campaign but will get a clean slate under new offensive coordinator Brent Pease.
Despite battling through spring 
practice last year, Driskel entered the 2011 season No. 2 on the Gators’ depth chart behind redshirt senior John Brantley. He made his collegiate debut against Florida Atlantic, completing 4 of 6 passes for 42 yards and an intercep-tion in second-half garbage time.
But nearly a month later, when Brant-
ley sprained his ankle at the end of the first half against Alabama, Driskel was called upon and looked just as lost as he said he was in the spring.
“I want to say that I was calm, but 
I’d be lying,” Driskel said. “I was a lit-tle nervous. It was a big stage; I should have been more prepared.”
Driskel vows he will be more pre-
pared this year, adding he is more ma-ture and finally comfortable with the offense, which is remaining largely the same under Pease apart from tweaked terminology and more shifts and pre-snap motions. First, Driskel must beat out Brissett, who took over the backup job following the Alabama game and looked far more poised running Flori-da’s offense than Driskel did in his lim-ited action.
“To be honest I wasn’t (nervous),” 
Brissett said. “I mean, throughout prac-tice I kind of like put myself in situ-ations in my head like if it was a real game, and when I went out there I don’t think I felt anything.”
Brissett finished out the season as 
the backup, even earning time as the Gators’ goal-line quarterback when Brantley’s ankle was still recovering. Neither quarterback put up impressive numbers as freshmen, but regardless of results, Muschamp said the experience both gained last season will pay divi-dends moving forward, and he sees the intangibles both need to be great quar -
terbacks.
“I’ve said it before: Unfortunately 
they played for us [last] year; fortu-nately they played for us [last] year,” Muschamp said. “It’s two-fold. It’s not an indictment on either young man. I think they’re really good players, but playing as a freshman at that position is different. It’s different than any other position.”
Contact Tom Green at tgreen@alligator.
org.20, ALLIGATOR §  FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
UF Communications
Sophomore quarterbacks Jacoby Brissett (left) and Jeff Driskel (right) spoke to the media 
Thursday for the first time since enrolling at UF. The two are splitting reps in practice in what’s being called an open competition for the starting role.
Driskel: ‘I was a little nervous’ in first action against Alabama
Football , from page 15Gators feel prepared for Commodores’ left-handed pitcher Ziomek 
Of Florida’s 27 home runs this season, 15 have come from 
left-handed batters, eight have come from righties and four have come courtesy of freshman Taylor Gushue, one of two switch-hitters on the team.
“We have a lot of lefties and we just have to battle and 
compete every at-bat,” Zunino said.” I think we’re doing a great job of that this year.” 
Although Florida’s team batting average is .312, its 
team average against left-handed pitching is a notch lower at .298 — not a sign of serious troubles by any means but a slight note when dealing with a team that has won 14 straight games by an average of 5.4 runs and is hitting .323 in March.
In preparing for Ziomek, the Gators find a lefty that 
throws hard but also has an unorthodox delivery, something they learned during his freshman season when he held them hitless during 2.1 innings of relief over three appearances. This time, there won’t be any surprises, and senior right fielder Preston Tucker said UF is prepared for anything. 
“We’ve got a few hard-throwing lefties on our squad, 
too, so I think seeing those guys in the fall and spring is definitely going to (help),” he said. “Nothing is going to sur -
prise us.”
Etc.: For the third straight weekend, sophomore right-
hander Jonathon Crawford will be Florida’s Sunday starter as the Gators continue to hold sophomore Karsten Whitson out of action for what UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan has called “precautionary reasons.”baseball , from page 15
“Nothing is going to surprise us.”
Preston Tucker
UF senior right fielder