VOLUME 106 ISSUE 124 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Relay for Life raises about $127,000
About 2,100 people participated, read the story at alligator.org.  
Quidditch teams compete in Swamp Cup
The Florida Quidditch team took fourth place, pg 3. Monday Feature
Behind the night shift: A ride-along with a 
Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cer, pg. 8. 
Volunteers 
sew dolls for 
domestic abuse 
victims.  See 
story, page 5.
84/58
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 9CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 13 AP Photo
  Louisville’s Kyle Kuric punches the air in celebration after the Cardinals overcame an 11-point deﬁ  cit in 
the ﬁ  nal nine minutes to hand the Gators their second consecutive Elite Eight loss. 
  MATT WATTS
 Alligator Staff Writer
   
 PHOENIX — As Peyton Siva, 
Kyle Kuric and Russ Smith cel-
ebrated, jumping up and down on 
the US Airways Center ﬂ  oor and 
donning T-shirts and hats em-blazoned with the words “Final Four,” Brad Beal, Erving Walker 
and Kenny Boynton fought back 
tears.
  For the Gators, Saturday’s 72-
68 loss in the Elite Eight was pain-ful not just because of the way 
it happened and the fact that it 
put a disappointing bookend to their year, but because it ended a second straight season just two 
games shy of the ultimate prize.
  “It hurts more for me, person-
ally, and probably for a lot of guys 
that returned,” forward Erik Mur-phy said. “A lot of people don’t 
get the shot to go to the Final Four 
ever, and we’ve had it twice and did the same thing both times.”
  Florida led from the 12:27 mark 
of the ﬁ  rst half to the 1:06 mark of the second, establishing a 41-33 lead at halftime and extending it to as many as 11 midway through the second half. But a 10-0 run co-incided with a nearly six-minute drought without a ﬁ  eld goal for 
UF and brought the Cardinals 
back into a game they had been shot out of by the Gators. UF made 8 of 11 from beyond the arc 
against Louisville’s zone defense 
in the ﬁ  rst half before being held to 0 of 9 in the second when the Cardinals switched to man-to-man. 
  Last year, Florida allowed an 
11-point lead at the 9:26 mark of the second half to evaporate down the stretch against Butler in the 
Elite Eight. This year, Florida held 
the lead by the same 11-point mar-gin at the 9:04 mark of the second half. 
  “Same feeling,” said Boyn-
ton, who sat slouched back in his  Gators’ surprising run ends in Elite Eight heartbreak
� THE RESTAURANT OPENED 
MARCH 10.
ADRIANNA PAIDAS
Alligator Writer
The kitchen was once a home base 
for concocting hot dog creations. 
Now, a 2-foot-tall pot sits in the room, 
ﬁ  lled with 30 quarts of ruby-red 
marinara sauce. Misshapen loaves of bread sit on a countertop next to the pizza oven, some burned more than 
others.
The inside of Bella Donna’s Italian 
Eatery resembles a Tuscan home: The 
walls are a rustic orange, cracked tile covers the ﬂ  oor and grapevines dan-
gle along the window.Joey Feulner, his wife Jodi and 
their son Jacob opened the Italian 
eatery, located at 1023 W University Ave., on March 10 in hopes of serv-
ing their family’s Italian dishes to 
residents.  
The business took the place of 
Gator Dawgs, a mom-and-pop hot dog restaurant that shut down in No-
vember.
On Thursday, Friday and Satur-
day, Joey ladles his red sauce over 
pasta, onto pizza dough and across 
subs stuffed with freshly breaded 
chicken or eggplant from noon until 3:30 a.m.
The countertop restaurant is open 
from noon until midnight Monday Italian restaurant opens 
in place of Gator DawgsENTERTAINMENT
BENJAMIN S. BRASCH                                   
and RACHEL CROSBY
Alligator Writers
Two siblings stood side-by-side for hours 
as they waited for 142 minutes of cinematic action.
Sarah Flanagan, 18-year-old exploratory 
freshman, and her sister, Rachel Flanagan, 18-year-old architecture freshman, sat in the Regal Butler Plaza Cinemas 14 theater un-til about 3 a.m. Friday to see one of the ﬁ  rst showings of “The Hunger Games,” the tale of a 16-year-old girl, played by Jennifer Law-rence, and her battle in a youth deathmatch in a post-apocalyptic world.
About 2,000 people turned out to see the 
ﬁ  lm’s premiere. Some wore “mockingjay” pins and others donned District 12 T-shirts, showing off their fandom with tokens from the series.The ﬁ  lm was based on the ﬁ  rst novel in Su-
zanne Collins’ bestselling trilogy.
According to a Regal Entertainment Group 
manager, about 2,250 tickets were sold and 13  of the 14 showings sold out that night.
The last show played at 
3:10 a.m., which didn’t sell out, but it came close with ticket sales at about 90 per-cent.
“This is the ﬁ  rst premiere 
I’ve ever been to,” said Phil-lip Heilman, a 20-year-old journalism sophomore who 
attended the last showing of the night. “These were the only tickets left.”
Lines formed about two hours before show-
times. Moviegoers waited outside in lines that snaked around the front of the building.
For some people, the excitement of the Fans pack theaters for ‘The 
Hunger Games’ premiere
SEE HUNGER, PAGE 4SEE RESTAURANT, PAGE 4Lawrence
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15“A lot of people don’t get 
the shot to go to Final Four 
ever, and we’ve had it twice 
and did the same thing both 
times.”
Erik Murphy
UF forwardNews Today
Subscription Rates: One Semester (Fall or Spring) $18 
 Summer Semester  $10
 Two Semesters (Fall or Spring) $35
 Full Year (All Semesters)  $40The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn -
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa -
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 106 ISSUE 124 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  offices are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classified advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. Classifieds also can 
be placed at the UF Bookstore. © Copyright 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer of Campus Communica -
tions Inc.2, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Joey Flechas, jflechas@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Emily Morrow, emorrow@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Online Marissa Prieto,  mprieto@alligator.org
 University Editor Clare Lennon, clennon@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Meredith Rutland, 
  mrutland@alligator.org
 Breaking News Editor Jon Silman, jsilman@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Justin Hayes, jhayes@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Erin Jester, ejester@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Watts, mwatts@alligator.org
 Assistant Sports Editor  John Boothe, jboothe@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Joe Morgan, joemorgan@alligator.org
 Editorial Board Joey Flechas, Emily Morrow,   
  Justin Hayes, Marissa Prieto
 Photo Editors Dana Burke, dburke@alligator.org,
  Brett Le Blanc, bleblanc@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Sami Main, smain@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chiefs Olivia Feldman, Tom Green, 
  Phil Kegler, Greg Luca, Corey McCall,  
  Marissa Prieto, Rachel Rowan
 Copy Editors Chloe Finch, Karly Kehres, 
  Sarah Kinonen, Wade Millward,   
                                                                   Elesa P aschke, Heather Pollard, 
  Raven Pritchett, David Williams, 
  Nika Zecevic
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Retail Advertising Manager Gary Miller, gmiller@alligator.org
 Advertising Assistant Melissa Bell
 Display Advertising Clerks Stephanie Parker, Barbara Valle
 Intern Coordinator Ally Russo
 Sales Representatives Serina Braddock, Brighid Hourihan,   
  Angela Hunter, Michael Jimenez,   
  Sarah Platt, Brandon Stern,
  Kristen Strobel, Courtney Sutherland
  
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015(Fax)
 Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org
 Classified Clerks William McCloud  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer
 Senior Bookkeeper Melissa Bell, mbell@alligator.org
 Accounting Clerks Courtney Barber, Christine O’Leary
  
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Rachel Stephens
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Stephanie Gocklin, 
  sgocklin@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Erica Bales, ebales@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff James Nolton, Vincent Pierino
 Editorial Production Staff Maegan Dennis, Shawn Janetzke, 
  Natalie TeerTODAYFORECAST
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. What’s happening?
“China Blue” screening
Today, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Civic Media Center, 433 S 
Main St.“China Blue” is a documen -
tary that takes viewers inside 
a blue jeans factory in south-
ern China, where teen work-
ers struggle to survive harsh working conditions. Providing perspectives from both the top 
and bottom levels of the fac-
tory’s hierarchy, the film ad-
dresses the complex issues of globalization on a human level.
History and Empathy
Today, 7 p.m.UF Smathers Library 1A
Suzanne Marchand from 
Louisiana State University 
will give a public lecture on 
how 19th-century archaeology and tourism affected European 
understanding of the Middle 
East.  
Breaking the Glass Ceiling: 
Female Entrepreneurs in the 
Community
Today, 7 p.m.
Reitz Union, Room 349This panel of women entre-preneurs will speak about 
their success and other is-
sues startup companies face. 
Kristen Hadeed of Student Maid, Stephanie and Susan Browning of Sakara Sweets Cafe and Rebecca Barborak of Corks and Colors will discuss launching their businesses and the struggles they en-countered entering fields pri-marily run by men. Food will be provided.
Got Art? 2012
Today, 8 p.m. to 10 p.m.Orange & BrewReitz Union Board Entertainment and the Art History Association present a one-night art show. Anyone in Gainesville can submit art-
work to be shown in the gal-
lery. There will also be art 
activities, art history trivia, a photobooth and food. To sub-mit artwork contact rub.spe-
cialevents@gmail.com.
Health Expo
Tuesday, Wednesday, 10 a.m. 
to 2 p.m.
Reitz Union Colonnade
Come get a personal health in-many individuals across our 
campus as well as the nation. 
A speaker will give a short 
presentation and answer any 
questions. Snacks and infor -
mation from campus organi-zations will also be provided 
at the event.
Brown Bag Lunch: Dr. 
Laurie Gries Conception, 
Contraception and 
Contemporary U.S. Politics
Thursday, 12:30 pm
Peabody, Room 411Join WSA and Laurie Gries in a discussion about “person-
hood” legislation and the rise 
of “contraception wars.”
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to emorrow@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspa-per, please submit the event 
before 5 p.m. Please model 
your submissions after above events. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORReCtiOns:
In Friday’s edition of the Alliga-
tor, it was incorrectly reported that Jay Rosen painted 27 horses for an art auction in Marion County due to an editing error. Rosen painted 
one of 27 horses.
In Friday’s edition of the Alli-
gator, a description of the Arizona 
immigration law said that police officers have the right to stop or ar -
rest anyone in the state they think may be an illegal immigrant. The sentence should have read that police officers have the right to 
determine the immigration status 
of anyone they stop or arrest for a separate offense if they have rea-son to believe that person may be an illegal immigrant.ventory at our Health Expo. 
Learn how to be a healthy student. This event is spon-sored by Baby Isaac and Campus Advent. For more information, visit babyisaac.org.
Brown Bag Lunch: 
“Bridesmaids”Tuesday, 12:30 pmPeabody, Room 408Love the movie “Bridesmaids”? Hate it? Can’t decide if you should trash it or watch it again? Join WSA and Dr. Carolyn Kelley in a discussion about gender implications in this film.
Toastmasters hosts potluck
Tuesday, 5:45 p.m.Entomology Building, Room 1031Everyone is welcome to pot-luck night.Toastmasters pro-vides a positive atmosphere 
to learn public speaking and 
leadership skills. For de-
tails, go to http://talkingga -
tors.toastmastersclubs.org. 
Talking Gators is also on 
Facebook.
Joffrey Ballet
Phillips Center
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
In this tour, the Chicago-
based company brings the 
following world-class pieces 
presented in this program: 
“Pretty BALLET,” “After the 
Rain” and “Night.” Student 
tickets are $12. Visit per -
formingarts.ufl.edu for more 
information.
“America the Beautiful 2” 
Screening
Wednesday, 7 p.m. to 10 
p.m.
Reitz Senate, Room 282
What constitutes obesity? 
How is the constant influ-
ence to fit a certain standard 
affecting our society? In the 
battle to be thin, who is real-
ly profiting? The film touch-
es on all these issues, which 
have a great influence on SUNNY
84/58SUNNY
85/57PARTLY
CLOUDY
85/56SUNNY
87/58THUNDER
STORMS
87/59FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY
 MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 3
March 28, 1977: The four-week-old Gainesville 
Citizens for Decency begins a campaign to shut 
down local adult bookstores and movie theaters. City and county commissioners say they are sympathetic to the group’s wish for ordinances to ban the sale of 
pornography, but that they can do little. Commis-
sioners directed the group’s complaints to the state attorney.
March 26, 1991: HIV-positive Cuban-American 
Pedro Zamora, who later rose to fame on MTV’s “The Real World: San Francisco” as a gay-rights ac-tivist and HIV educator in 1994, will speak to UF law students about the stigma of AIDS in connection with Hispanic Heritage Week.
March 30, 1995: UF administrators are prompted 
to look into how Student Government funds are spent after the former Institute of Black Culture as-sistant director was accused of taking SG money for personal use. Administrators are concerned that SG cannot manage its $6 million budget effectively.
March 26, 1999: As officials announced the results 
of “unusually tense” SG elections at a local restaurant, former Honest Party presidential candidate Michael 
Schmitt and friends barged in, carrying an 8-month-
old cat named Roy wearing an American flag as a cape. Schmitt said he wanted to add “a little fun” to the elections. Write-in votes for Roy were invalid be-cause the cat was not registered at UF.
March 28, 2006: The 60-member Four Square 
Club, which was formed in 2004, is putting its “mad four-square skills to good use” for its second annual tournament of Friends for Life, a nonprofit organi-
zation that helps cancer patients. Participants are 
encouraged to have aliases: “An alias can improve your play by up to 25 percent,” said co-founder Alan Moore, aka Prime Real Estate.
— RACHEL ROWANCRIME
TYLER JETT
Alligator Staff Writer
Anthony Anderson went to his ex-
girlfriend’s house Saturday morning to 
pick up some of his old stuff. She greet-ed him with an aluminum bat.
Gainesville Police arrested Brittany 
N. Leisure, 23, of 8210 SW 95th Lane, at about 11:30 a.m. on charges of ag-gravated assault and criminal mis-chief after she smashed two windows of Anderson’s car. Leisure, who could not be reached for comment because 
she provided fake phone numbers to the arresting officer, 
caused about $500 worth of damage, according to police.
Leisure and An-
derson dated for nine months, but 
the two broke up in 
December. On Saturday, she called and 
asked him to collect some things he left at her place.
Leisure said she wanted to talk. An-
derson didn’t. He just wanted to pick up his stuff and leave, he said.
Upset, Leisure ran to Anderson’s 
car. She cocked the bat and swung away , cracking the front right corner of the windshield, according to police.
Anderson ran back to his car, hopped 
in and drove away. According to police, 
Leisure took one last hack, shattering 
the car’s rear window.
Contact Tyler Jett at tjett@alligator.org.Woman charged with breaking car windows
KELSEY GRENTZER
Alligator Contributing Writer
The magic of Quidditch returned to UF over the week-
end as Florida Quidditch hosted the second annual Swamp 
Cup.
The two-day competition brought together eight Florida 
college teams to play a sport that once existed only in J.K. 
Rowling’s “Harry Potter” series.
UF placed fourth after the University of Miami, the Uni-
versity of South Florida and Ringling College of Art and 
Design.
Marilyn Ralph, a 24-year-old UF medical student, went to 
watch her brother play. She said the highlight is the Snitch, a neutral player who runs from the teams’ Seekers and wears a ball hanging from the back of his or her shorts. 
“I really like watching what the Snitch does because it’s 
always very creative,” Ralph said.
One Snitch jumped over the heads of spectators sitting 
on the sidelines and used small, plastic squirt guns to spray other players. Another borrowed an umbrella from a by-stander and used it as a shield.This year’s Swamp Cup featured two additional teams, 
new rules to ensure safety and a more accessible location at Hume Field, said Emily Troilo, a tournament director.
Florida Quidditch’s Vice President of Tournament Han-
nah Pohlmann said Quidditch has grown into a sport that is taken more seriously now than in the past.
“The growth of Quidditch has really been exponential 
over the past few years,” she said, noting how it has spread to nations such as Italy and Pakistan.
Quidditch players say the sport is about much more than 
Harry Potter.
Julia Rauchfuss, an 18-year-old biomedical sciences 
freshman, plays for the USF team. She said her interest was originally sparked because she is a Harry Potter fan.
“But it really becomes more about the sport as you start 
playing,” she said.Quidditch teams compete in Swamp CupLeisure
“I really like watching what the Snitch does 
because it’s always very creative.”
Marilyn Ralph
UF medical studentmovie didn’t start or end at the the-
aters.
“It’s great to see people get ex-
cited about reading,” said Sarah 
Hensley, assistant manager of the 
Barnes & Noble in Butler Plaza. “I 
wish I saw that more often.”
She said “The Hunger Games” 
has probably been one of the top-selling books at Barnes & Noble for 
months because it appeals to many 
people.
“It’s really great to see a wide 
audience get into the same thing,” Hensley said.
She said the best part is she’s 
seen children and parents sit down 
and read the series together.
“Whatever it is that spurs you to 
read, it works for me,” she said.
Some people only read a book 
because it is assigned to them by a teacher, she said, and they don’t ex-
perience the joy of reading for fun.
“I have a feeling some people 
have never read for pleasure,” Hen-sley said. “And they don’t know 
how fun it can be.”Excited people have been buy-
ing the book for weeks, she said. 
She said she is interested to see if 
people will continue to buy the 
books after the hype dies down.
Sara Moseley, bookseller at 
Books-A-Million, said the series got 
people who don’t normally read for 
fun interested in reading.
“We had pretty much everyone 
buying this book,” she said.
She said the store sold 350 copies 
of the books in the series over the past two months.
Some fans have been excited for 
more than two months.
“We read the books when they 
first came out about two years ago,” Sarah Flanagan said. “At the time, 
they weren’t even talking about a 
movie.”
Chelsea Rence, a 24-year-old 
animal biology senior, sat down to play a game of cards with her friend to pass the time.
“We’ve been waiting in line for 
an hour,” Rence said at about 3 a.m. “But it’s so worth it.”
Contact Ben Brasch at bbrasch@
alligator.org.4, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
Customers can get slices of cheese pizza for $1, subs for $7
through Wednesday and from noon until 
9 p.m. on Sunday
“This is a labor of love, you know,” Joey 
said in an accent reminiscent of Rocky Bal-boa’s. “I’m just a cook, you know. I’m not a chef. I’m just a ham-and-egger.”
Marinara sauce, or “red sauce” as 
some Italians call it, is the secret to Italian homestyle cooking, Joey said. His sauce is so dense with tomatoes and herbs that it forms its own layer when added to a chicken parmesan sub.
Though Joey, who worked in home im-
provement, and Jodi, who was a fitness instructor, hadn’t managed a restaurant before, the family always wanted to open 
a family bistro. The question was always 
when and where.
Joey came across a “For Rent” sign in 
the window of the vacant Gator Dawgs in November when he and his wife were 
visiting Jacob. The 18-year-old is a premed 
student at Santa Fe College.
The address of the empty space was 
1023. Jacob’s birthday is Oct. 23 — 10/23.
The space was affordable, Jodi said, and 
they loved the city.
They moved to Gainesville a month 
later.“My intent was not to go to college with 
my son, but when you look at the number of mouths to feed down here,” Jodi said, “this was a no-brainer.”Joey’s grandmother is from Sicily, and 
his grandfather is from Calabria, a city at the southern tip of the boot.
“In Calabrese, you know, the man makes the gravy on Sunday,” Joey said. 
“So I would always hang around the kitch-
en and watch my grandfather cook.”  
During those days, he learned the fam-
ily’s marinara recipe. Joey perfected the 
sauce and his signature broccoli bread, 
which is on the menu, when he was a teen-ager working at his Aunt Marianne’s res-taurant in upstate New York.
Before he moved to Gainesville, his 
Aunt Marianne bequeathed her favorite apron to him. Joey wears the red, white and green-striped linen apron all day as he cooks.
Patrons can get a slice of cheese pizza 
for $1. Joey makes the dough fresh every morning.
Subs cost $7, and dinner dishes such as 
spaghetti cost $10.
Erik Schineis, a 21-year-old UF adver -
tising senior, tried Bella Donna’s for the first time Friday night.
He was back at 4 p.m. on Saturday for 
another slice of Joey’s pizza and his chick-en parmesan.
“It’s like my grandma’s kitchen,” Schi-
neis said. “Actually, it’s better than my grandma’s kitchen.”
Contact Adrianna Paidas at apaidas@
alligator.org.RESTAURANT , from page 1
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Joey Feulner, owner and cook at Bella Donna’s Italian Eatery, cooks 30 quarts of mari -
nara, or “red,” sauce.
Rachel Crosby / Alligator
UF alumna Anh-Thu Nguyen, 23, plays cards with animal biology senior Chelsea Rence, 24, while waiting 
in line for the 3:10 a.m. showing of “The Hunger Games.”
Local booksellers say they’ve seen spikes in ‘Hunger Games’ sales
HUNGER , from page 1oN CAmpUS
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Writer
Headphones are almost as common as 
backpacks on campus, and two UF stu-
dents decided to listen in.
Roommates Dalton Verhagen and Re-
han Khan wanted to hear what students listen to on campus, so they stuck a cam-era in students’ faces and asked what artist 
and song they were listening to.They made a “What Are You Listening 
to, UF?” video and posted it on YouTube.
The idea, based on Tyler Cullen’s New 
York City video, has reached London, Sin-gapore and a few US cities and campuses.
As of Sunday, the UF video posted 
March 19 had about 240 hits on YouTube.
Khan, a 22-year-old microbiology cell 
science senior, and Verhagen said they thought UF’s music selection could be even more interesting.
When Khan and Verhagen filmed the 
video in mid-February, they got an array 
of responses, such as the Osborne Broth-ers, Bon Iver, Israel Kamakawiwo’ole and a Harry Potter audio book.
“As UF students, we see all these peo-
ple with headphones walking to class,” 
said Verhagen, an 18-year old computer 
engineering freshman. “I’ve always been curious to see what different people listen to.”
Contact Shelby Webb at swebb@alligator.
orgDuo surveys students to find out what they listen to on campus
“As UF students, we see all these 
people with headphones walking to 
class.”
Dalton Verhagen
UF freshman� ABOUT 18 PEOPLE  PARTICIPATED.
SHELBY WEBB
Alligator Writer
The small, travel-sized doll was nearly 
complete. Martha Dolan just needed to add 
some cute clothes, and it would be finished.
“She’ll be ready to go out,” Dolan, 57, said 
in a soft Alabama accent, laughing.
Although Dolan has never been big on 
sewing, she felt compelled to join 18 others 
at Wild Iris Books on Wednesday evening to make comfort dolls for women seeking haven in local domestic abuse shelters through the 
Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network.
A group also met Saturday to make more 
plush companions.
Dolan said her past made the context of the 
event especially personal.
She was married to a man who she said 
controlled and beat her during the final four 
years of their 28-year marriage. She divorced 
him and fled under a shroud of secrecy with 
the assistance of an attorney.
She said the dolls will remind women 
that someone cares about them, even when it 
seems there is no comfort in sight.
“What a blessing for someone,” Dolan 
said. “They’ll know someone’s thinking about them.”
Pat Winters founded the national Comfort 
Doll Project in 2007 to give soft, small dolls to abused women around the world.
Brenda Hutchings took over the project in 2010, and it was featured as Sew News’ 2012 
charity sewing effort. After an article ran in 
the publication, she said, interest in the project 
skyrocketed.
“I just enjoy how many people reach out to 
give,” Hutchings said. “It’s just wonderful.”
Crystal Sorrow, who teaches with Dolan at Millhopper Montessori School, saw an article about the project in Sew News and wanted 
to plan a comfort doll night in Gainesville. Hutchings gave Sorrow permission to local-
ize the project for Alachua County. All dolls created will go to women seeking refuge in 
county abuse shelters through the Peaceful Paths program.
“I’ve seen different friends go through hor -
rible situations,” Sorrow said. “After they get out, you can see how much their self-worth 
was eaten away.”
Sorrow recruited the help of Summer 
Lubart, a 21-year-old political science senior, to help plan the event and spread the word.
“I jumped at the chance,” Lubart said.Those who attended were requested to 
make a $5 donation to cover the cost of sup-plies to make the dolls.
Participants could choose from several 
pre-cut fabric patterns for dolls’ bodies, hair, clothes and other accessories. Sorrow said no 
experience was necessary , and that the dolls 
were easy to stitch in about 20 minutes.
Dolan said the appearance of the dolls 
doesn’t matter. It’s the thought that counts.
During her abusive relationship, she said 
she would hold a teddy bear during her hard-est times.
“It was very comforting,” she said, wiping 
back tears. “Now I don’t have to hold one be-cause I’m a strong person.”
Since her divorce 11 years ago, Dolan re-
married, has a new career and climbed Blood Mountain, Georgia’s highest point on the Ap-
palachian Trail, three times.
She said therapy helped her get to where 
she is now and recommends that women in any abusive situation seek help.
“I have a voice now,” Dolan said, flashing a 
smile. “Growing as a person has been fun.”
Contact Shelby Webb at swebb@alligator.org. MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 5
Aundre Larrow / Alligator Staff
Gainesville resident Crystal Sorrow, 34, sews up Zoe, one of the seven dolls she made 
at Wild Iris Books for the Comfort Doll Project, a national project that makes dolls for domestic abuse victims. “I wanted to make her cheerful so she would be a bright spot for a battered woman,” Sorrow said.
Volunteers sew comfort dolls for domestic abuse victims
LORI PERRY
Alligator Contributing Writer
A safe place is just a bus ride away for abused and neglect-
ed teens and children, but so far, Gainesville youth have not 
asked bus drivers for help.
For the past three years, Gainesville Regional Transit Sys-
tem has partnered with CDS Family & Behavioral Health Ser -
vices Inc. to make city buildings and buses “safe place” loca-tions. These safe spots act as temporary places for runaway and abused youth to stay before they are taken to Interface Youth Shelter for further help.
“If a kid were to run away or get kicked out of their house, 
chances are they are going to use a city bus to get around, or they are just going to ride a city bus all day because it is too hot or too cold outside or it’s raining,” said Radha Selvester, CDS Outreach/Safe Place Specialist.
Previously , RTS bus stops were “safe place” locations, but 
within the last year, the buses themselves have also been given that designation, Selvester said.
But so far, no youth have used the buses to get help, Selves-
ter said.
“We are very proactive and try to intervene before some-
one runs away,” Selvester said.  “This may be why no one has used the buses as a safe place yet.”
Selvester said her organization will continue to let kids 
know this program exists by visiting schools and camps to give presentations about how to identify “safe place” locations.The locations have yellow-and-black-diamond signs and 
say “Safe Place.”
Chip Skinner, RTS marketing and communications super -
visor, said if a teen or child asks an RTS bus driver for help, the driver contacts the dispatcher, who calls a police officer to 
meet the bus.
The police or a CDS representative will escort the youths 
to the Interface Youth Shelter on Northwest 13th Street, where 
they can get counseling, shelter and other services.
If a youth isn’t on a bus or near a bus stop, he or she can go 
to about 90 safe place spots in the county, Selvester said.
RTS has about 110 buses, which doubles the number of 
“safe spots” in the county, Skinner said.
If teens are in trouble, they can also text for help.   
Teens in need of help can text the word “safe” and their 
location to “69866”and find out where the nearest safe place 
is located.RTS buses available to help runaway, displaced youth
CAITLIN HARTLEY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Neither rain nor lighting could stop 
the power of giving — or stripping.
About 40 people stripped down to bi-
kinis and boardshorts at the third annual 
“Taking It Off For Charity” strip poker 
tournament at University Commons on 
Saturday.
The tournament was organized by 
the Pledge 5 Foundation, which coordi-nates charity drives for other nonprofit organizations. Proceeds benefit the St. Francis House and Goodwill.
Participants traded bags of clothes for 
poker chips or bought them for $2 each to play Texas Hold ’Em or blackjack.
“I think people should want to give back to their community, and what bet-ter way to give back to your community 
than to have fun and do a crazy, exciting 
event like taking your clothes off?” said Jason Bowman, director and co-founder of Pledge 5.
Pledge 5 promoter Jamie Metcalf, 26, 
said the foundation held a clothing drive all week leading up to the tournament.
Last year, participants donated about 
3 tons of clothing, but Bowman said it 
would be a few days until he knows how 
much clothing was donated this year.
A thunderstorm moved the tourna-
ment indoors at about 1:30 p.m., but no-body seemed discouraged.
“We’re already in our bathing suits,” 
Metcalf said, “so why stop because of some rain?”Participants ‘take it off’ 
for charity, get rained onTOVA MILLER
Alligator Contributing Writer
At 7:30 p.m. today, the Reitz Union’s 
Rion Ballroom doors will open for a Pride 
Awareness Month concert.
Bands Uh Huh Her and The Shondes 
will perform to an expected audience of 250 
people, said Pride Awareness Month Pub-
lic Relations Director Jessie Pincus.
The concert will cost about $8,500 to put 
on and is free and open to the public, she said. Reitz Union Board Entertainment is co-sponsoring the event.
Kelly Richard, a RUB bands co-director, 
said the bands have rock ’n’ roll and elec-tronic feels.
The Shondes will perform at 8 p.m. fol-
lowed by duo Leisha Hailey and Camila Grey from indie-alternative band Uh Huh Her, Pincus said.
Hailey is known for her role as Alice on the lesbian drama series “The L Word,” which ran for six seasons on Showtime.
This is Uh Huh Her’s first college show, 
said Justin Soto, the director of Pride Awareness Month.
“I think students will be able to feel their 
excitement,” he said.
Attendees will have the opportunity to 
meet the groups of all-female performers immediately after the show at about 9:30 p.m., Soto said.
Ricky Carter, RUB treasurer and UF 
Pride Student Union president, loves Uh 
Huh Her’s lyrics.
“When I first heard them, I was hooked,” 
he said. “It’s catchy, but not cliche. I can re-
late to it and think it’s fantastic music.”Pride Awareness Month to host 
free concert tonight at Reitz
“When I first heard them, I was 
hooked.”
Ricky Carter
UF Pride Student Union presidentBus stops, buses provide a ‘safe place’Reader response
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.org
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorialMONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Joey Flechas
EDITOREmily Morrow
MANAGING EDITORJustin Hayes
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Friday’s question: Have you ever been 
hypnotized? Today’s question: Have you seen “The Hunger Games”?
94 TOTAL VOTES9% YES
91% NOObamacare may be unconstitutional
Today, the Supreme Court will begin to hear arguments 
for the most significant case since the likes of Gideon v . Wainwright, Brown v. Board of Education and Miran-
da v. Arizona in the battle over Obama’s health care reform.
The case, Department of Health and Human Services v. 
Florida et. al, will answer the central question of whether or not the federal government can mandate an action and penalize individuals for not purchasing health insurance. Though it’s hard to say , chances seem very good that part or all of Obamacare will be repealed by the third branch of government.
The roots of this case started in my hometown of Pensa-
cola. The federal court there found that the entire law was null because of the individual mandate requiring everyone to buy health insurance. Other federal courts found that the law was constitutional. The stage was set for a battle of con-stitutional questions, which can only be resolved by the Su-preme Court.
The interesting thing about law from an outsider’s per -
spective is that it seems the vast majority of opinions come down to a justice’s political persuasion. Justice Scalia is al-ways going to vote conservative, and Justice Sotomayor will always be voting with the Obama administration. Justice Clarence Thomas hasn’t spoken in the Court for years and is a solid vote for the conservative side. Since Obama appointed his two justices, the Court has become split with four liberals, four conservatives, and one sort-of conservative, Justice An-thony Kennedy. Though he was nominated by former Presi-dent Reagan, he has a reputation for being unpredictable and will likely be the only one listening to the hours of arguments who hasn’t already made up his mind.
Why should we care what some court says about the law? 
It’s because health care reform created a giant entitlement time bomb that is ready to explode in a few decades, as all well-intentioned social programs end up doing. We added tens of millions to the roles of the insured in exchange for bil-lions in new taxes that have been hidden so it would pass.A key part of the law is that all 
persons must buy health insur -
ance or suffer a penalty every year they fail to purchase it. In other words, homeless guys on the street will be required by law to be covered with a health plan or else they might owe the government thousands of dollars for their inac-tion. The Obama administration 
has created a new power for the federal government in being able to punish people for what they don’t purchase.
States require everyone to have car insurance if they have 
a car, but no one has to drive. Health insurance is the first product that everyone must now buy just for existing. De-pending on how Justice Kennedy is feeling during the next few days, all of the Obamacare legislation may be either vali-dated and put into full force of law or completely tossed out and obliterated by the Supreme Court.
The health care reform act is part of what made me be-
come a conservative. It eliminates individual choice, adds a giant entitlement with most costs put off until later and makes the problem of out-of-control health care spending even worse by eliminating all of the major cost-saving mea-sures initially in the bill — which were removed to make it popular among the base of the Democratic Party.
The Supreme Court rarely rears its head and speaks with 
the full authority of the final legal arbiter of major legislation, but when it does it is historic in its rebuke of the overreach of the other branches.
The future of the deficit, taxes, freedom of choice over 
health care choices and Obama’s signature achievement all rest on how far swing-vote Anthony Kennedy believes the power of the federal government goes. 
Get ready for a fight of constitutional proportions.Travis Hornsby is a statistics and economics senior at UF. His 
column appears on Mondays.Irrational Fears
Geraldo’s argument 
highlights faulty logic
When something horrible happens, we often have a nat-
ural impulse to find an explanation for the event.
For the most part, we want to assure ourselves that 
nothing like that could ever happen to us.
So when we hear that someone was shot or killed, we often 
think, “Well, if that person hadn’t been doing this or that, then he or she wouldn’t have been in that situation.”
But our instinctive drive for self-assurance often leads us to 
form simplistic explanations for more complicated situations.
On Friday’s episode of “Fox & Friends,” a morning news 
show on Fox News, “Geraldo At Large” host Geraldo Rivera fell 
victim to this urge to simplistically rationalize horrible events 
when he was discussing the Trayvon Martin shooting.
So that his statements are not taken out of context, it is impor -
tant to look at the entire quote.
Rivera said the following:“I believe that George Zimmerman, the overzealous neighbor -
hood watch captain, should be investigated to the fullest extent of the law, and if he is criminally liable, he should be prosecuted. But I am urging the parents of black and Latino youngsters par -
ticularly to not let their children go out wearing hoodies. I think the hoodie is as much responsible for Trayvon Martin’s death as George Zimmerman was.”
He went on to argue that hoodies carry with them an instant 
association of criminal activity , saying that some people who see you wearing a hoodie “are going to perceive you as a menace.”
First of all, this assumption that a hoodie caused the alter -
cation between Zimmerman and Martin and the subsequent shooting of Martin is irresponsible, considering we have noth-
ing but eyewitness accounts of the event.
Second, to say that the victim was responsible for his own 
death due to the fact that he was wearing a hoodie creates an unnecessary stigma on a piece of clothing based on little to no 
evidence.
Third, it is insulting to minorities to say they cannot wear cer -
tain articles of clothing without appearing to be criminals.
And finally, this blame-the-victim mentality can have serious 
consequences on public opinion.
This is equivalent to blaming women who wear short skirts 
for being raped. It might be easy to think, “She would not have been raped if she weren’t dressed like that,” but it would be ir -
responsible.
Rapists do not discriminate based on clothing, and they do 
not randomly get the idea to rape someone based on a short skirt 
or a revealing outfit.
Rivera likely jumped to such nonsensical conclusions to ease 
his fears that something like this could happen to someone close to him.
But he should realize that there was likely more to the story of 
what happened that unfortunate evening, and he should not be 
trying to comfort his irrational fears on national television.
Travis Hornsby
opinions@alligator.org MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 7
Letters to the Editor
USPS office should not be closed
First, I would like to set aside any argu-
ments that have to do with the current bud-
get woes of the USPS.
The fact that its budget shortfall is the re-
sult of a determined effort to destroy it does 
not actually matter in this case.
The simple fact is Gainesville needs that 
distribution office.
The amount of time-sensitive mail that 
UF, Shands and the VA produce daily surely must outweigh the costs of trucking Gaines-
ville’s mail up to Jacksonville to be pro-
cessed.
The jobs created, the hassle removed 
and the traffic drawn away from congestion hotspots all make the Northwest 34th Street 
location ideal.
Not to mention the prevention of vinyl 
records warping in the back of a hot mail truck.
John Smith
Psychology senior
§ § §
Adderall presents a major health problem
In the Feb. 24 issue of the Alligator, 
Maureen Mariano brought some attention to the problem of Adderall abuse on col-lege campuses. Pointing out safe alterna-tives to “study drugs” is important, but there is still more that should be said about 
the consequences of misusing medications 
like Adderall.
For one, the legal consequences can be 
severe. Adderall and the other stimulants 
used to treat ADHD are schedule II sub-
stances. That means they are among the 
most controlled substances one can pre-
scribe.
Selling or distributing these medications 
is illegal and can lead to felony charges. 
You can be arrested and put in jail.
The consequences for other students’ 
health may be significant. These medi-
cations can be effective treatments for ADHD, and for a great majority of people, they are very safe.
However, for some susceptible people, 
they can cause some severe problems, in-cluding paranoia, accelerated heart rate and sudden death.
A physician needs to evaluate, pre-
scribe and monitor your response to the medication. Used correctly, these medica-tions help many people lead more produc-tive lives.
However, misusing these medications 
may leave you with a lot more to worry about than tomorrow’s exam.
Elias H. Sarkis M.D.
Eric Dutton M.A.
Sarkis Family Psychiatry
The Raspberry Pi, an extremely thin, bare-bones 
computer, launched at the end of last month to the delight of tens of thousands of people. Con-
sumers around the world had been anxiously waiting for its release for six years, and the computer sold out 
within hours.
So what’s all the hype? The main appeal is the 
price: The Model A Raspberry Pi is only $25, and the 
Model B is $35.
The Model A Raspberry Pi packs a 700 megahertz 
processor, 256 megabytes of RAM, a USB port, an SD card reader and an HDMI port. The $35 Model B also comes equipped with an Ethernet port for a wired In-ternet connection and an additional USB port. All this 
is amazingly crammed into a credit-card sized com-
puter, which consumers then connect to a separately purchased monitor.
Although it certainly has mass appeal, the com -
puter wasn’t designed for the general public. Instead, co-founder Robert Mullins told CNN, “The primary goal was to build a low-cost computer that every child could own and one where programming was the nat-ural thing to do with it.”
The Raspberry Pi Foundation, the nonprofit char -
ity that created the Raspberry Pi computer, aims to help children who are unable to afford regularly priced computers to obtain one. The founders hope increased access to technology will help improve young children’s education, specifically in the fields of computer science and programming.
Eben Upton, a former computer science professor 
at St. John’s College of Cambridge University, started 
the Raspberry Pi Foundation in 2006. Upton was dis-appointed at the declining 
number of computer sci-ence applicants for his de-partment. He said young adults know how to use 
computers but often do not know how they work.
According to the foundation’s website, the found-
ers also said they noticed the same problem.
“… [C]omputers had become so expensive and ar -
cane that programming experimentation on them had to be forbidden by parents,” they said.
To have the price so low, the designers had to make 
a few compromises. There is no data storage included, for example. The operating system has to be saved on 
an SD card or on an external USB hard drive. Also, the 
operating system is a free version of Linux, not the more popular Microsoft Windows or Mac OS X.
These compromises, however, have not prevented 
consumers from recognizing the Raspberry Pi as an incredible device. The inclusion of an HDMI port, an RCA video port and an audio jack means buyers can hook it up to a monitor or TV and stream HD video and music.
The Linux operating system also supports many of 
the same functions that Windows or Mac OS X pro-vide. Users can run word processing applications, surf the Internet or play 3D games.
Many of the current buyers are technology enthu-
siasts, but the foundation hopes the computer will soon reach children, improving their intellectual en-gagement with this cutting-edge technology.
David Rabinowitz is a columnist for the Cavalier Daily 
at the University of Virginia.‘Pi’ computer will get children interested 
in computer programming at young ageUWire
David Rabinowitz
UWire
Despite the pleas com-
ing from both the left and right calling for 
further government inter -
vention in the energy indus-try, green and alternative en-ergy sources are still unable to compete with coal and natural gas. Alternative en-ergy sources have proven to be unsustainable, costly and detrimental to the economy, especially for working-class families.
When it comes to most is-
sues, liberals and conserva-tives seem to be at odds with one another, but for some strange reason, they both seem to be on the same side of the aisle when it comes to our country’s energy ef-ficiency.
Both Sen. John McCain 
and President Barack Obama have been heard countless times calling for additional investment in wind and so-lar energy.
But why should these pol-
iticians force taxpayers to in-vest more in an industry that has already cost us billions and produces very little?
The Department of Energy 
spent $38.6 billion in grants to promote job growth via the green energy industry. The nearly $40 billion cre-ated only 3,545 new perma-nent jobs, although the DOE predicted 65,000 new perma-nent jobs.
This means the DOE spent 
roughly $11 million dollars per job created. Heavy sub-sidization of industry clearly does not work.
This obviously feeble 
industry, despite being propped up through subsi-dies, is still very unattractive to profit hungry capitalists. The common misconcep-tion that oil tycoons are just greedy and do not care about the environment is a gross exam-p l e of be-night-ednes. 
In reality, any industrialist in a market economy would be more than happy to find, own and produce a cost-effi-cient alternative to coal and oil. Any energy industry en-tity that discovers this alter -
nate resource would become immensely wealthy while reducing our oil dependency and increasing our standard of living.
But wind, solar and bio-
mass plants have proven to not be the answer, despite their governmental free ride.
Range Fuels in Soperton, 
Ga., a plant dedicated to bio-mass technology, recently closed its doors despite its $25 million in subsidies.
Renewable Portfolio Stan-
dards, mandated in 24 dif-ferent states, create quotas regarding how much pro-duction must be dedicated toward alternative energy at production plants — alterna-tives such as biomass once researched at Range Fuels.
RPS increases the cost of 
energy production resulting in higher utility costs. Com-bining that with skyrocket-ing gas prices, it becomes obvious that the green move-ment is detrimental to lower income households.
It is time for the state to 
get out of the energy indus-try and let market forces and consumers decide how we will power our homes and cars.
The push for green en-
ergy has proven to be costly, inefficient and harmful to a financially healthy environ-ment.
Thomas Ryan is a political 
science sophomore at Santa Fe College.
Alternative energy 
costly, inefficientGuest column
Thomas Ryan
Speaking Out8, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
MONDAY FEATURE
JON SILMAN
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s note: Information for 
this story was gathered during a ride-along with a Gainesville Po -
lice officer. The photograph was taken on a separate ride-along with the same officer.
Before he starts his overnight 
shift, Tommy Harrison gets a cup 
of coffee from the Kangaroo Ex-
press on Northwest 13th Street.
While he sits in his police car, 
he checks the loudspeaker. Then 
the front and back cameras. The 
siren. His fingers glow from the 
computer screen on the center console. He reviews the incident list. It’s time to work.
Harrison, 28, is a three-year 
veteran of the Gainesville Police Department, and he works four 10-hour shifts a week. Before that, he worked five years just south of 
Boston. He patrols a quadrant of 
the southeast part of town, section R, or Romeo.
“Typically, we don’t find col-
lege students in this area,” he said. 
“You see a college student cruis-
ing around here, they’re looking for something.”
He rides in one of GPD’s Ford 
Crown Victorias, an elegant beast of a car known for its speed and reliability. It has a shotgun rack 
above his head in front of the glass 
partition.
Harrison is originally from 
Massachusetts, and he has a faint Boston accent. His dad is a police 
officer. He played cops and rob-
bers as a kid, and he watched the TV show religiously. He’s only ever wanted to be a cop.
“No one can deny the appeal of 
law enforcement,” he said.
On this night, the streets are 
wet, and he expects a slow shift. A car passes with high beams, and it’s go time. Harrison pulls a U-
turn and speeds up. The cruiser 
accelerates fast and hums. He calls in the license plate and flashes his lights.
He steps out of the car fast, 
with one hand on his holster and the other on a flashlight. The man inside the car moves his hands a lot. Harrison cocks his head and 
asks if there are any drugs or 
weapons. The man admits the car is not his.
“There’s a lot of things not add-
ing up,” Harrison said.
Backup arrives, and the man 
gets out of the car. He explains his name is Nick Savage. He’s a musician. He played with the late 
Bo Diddley, he said, and he’s just 
borrowing his friend’s car. He said he’s fallen on hard times.Everyone relaxes, and he’s 
let go with a warning to dim his brights when passing cars.
Back in his own car, Harrison 
explains that part of being a cop is figuring out what people are do-
ing by watching how they move 
and speak.
“You get lied to 99 percent of 
the time,” he said.
He said there are some give-
aways. When people answer a question he didn’t ask, his cop ra-dar goes off. When they immedi-ately express innocence before he 
even opens his mouth, he knows 
something is wrong.
“One of the biggest things is 
a subject change,” he said. “They 
jump to a ‘I don’t have anything. I 
didn’t do anything.’”
Harrison stops at a parking lot across the street from a food mart.
“Watch this,” he said. A group 
of men standing around and on bikes scatter.
While he sat, a call came on 
the radio about a foot pursuit. 
Another officer, obviously out of 
breath but surprisingly calm, gave a description of a suspect over the radio. It was too far away for Har -
rison to assist.
Instead, he continued his pa-
trol and pulled over a woman 
near Gardenia Garden Apart-
ments for driving with one head-
light. She didn’t let him search her car, and her passenger, a young man in shorts and flip flops with a South Carolina license, had a beer can between his legs. After it got 
poured out, they were let go.
While he drove away, Harrison 
explained why people burn out on 
the job. Being a police officer de-
mands a sort of hyper-vigilance, 
he said, so that you have to be aware of all things at once. Even during a routine traffic stop, he said, you never know the amount 
of danger involved.
“Very few times I can say I’ve 
been 100 percent at ease,” he said. 
“All I do is play out scenarios in 
my head.”
He said that awareness can be 
hard to turn off. It’s why he likes 
to spend his free time with other cops.
“I’m most relaxed with guys 
who will have my back.”
Harrison has never used his 
weapon on a person, he said, but 
one time he did shoot a deer that 
was seriously injured to stop its suffering.
“I had to see the department 
shrink after that,” he said, quickly 
adding that he was joking.
The rest of the night saw a car 
colliding with a bike (resulting in 
minor injuries), a noise complaint 
at a KFC (from late-night pressure-
washing) and a call about smoke coming from a house.
At stops, the officers joked and 
laughed while police lights reflect-
ed off their uniforms. For Harri-
son, there’s nothing he’d rather be doing.
“Every day is different; you 
hear things that you’ve never heard before or see things you’ve never seen before,” he said. “It’s the added bonus of doing what you love. At the end of the day, 
you’re very satisfied with what 
you do.”
Contact Jon Silman at jsilman@
alligator.org.Behind the night shift: A ride with a Gainesville Police officer
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police officer Thomas Harrison drives his cruiser down University Avenue early Thursday 
morning.
“You get lied to 99       
percent of the time.”
Tommy Harrison
Gainesville police officerBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS Classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Search Smarter. Not Harder.
ApartmentsInGainesville.com
4-25-72-1
Student friendly 2/2’s and 4/4’s
42” TV in EVERY apt
Text ‘GP’ to 47464 for more info!
4-25-72-1
Come Get LUCKY at LEX…….
OPEN HOUSE THIS SAT!!!
12-5pm
Come view All-Inclusive private suites
Free upgrade to a 3/3 !!
Free 42” Flat-Screen TV!!!
Raffle for a $100 Gift Card!!!!
2 pools, 2 bus routes, tons of amenities
LexingtonCrossingUF.com
4-25-11-72-1
**ALL INCLUSIVE LUXURY**
Almost Full for Fall!
2BR/2BA w/Roommate Matching Available
Direct Bus Route to Campus!
www.EnclaveUf.com 376.0696
4-25-11-72-1
Gainesville Place Apts 
4 BUS ROUTES TO UF!
4/4 Furnished & All-Inclusive
ONLY $459 per person!
(352) 271-3131 -- GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-1
 2 BLOCKS FROM UF!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalkapt.com 352-337-9098
4-25-72-1THE POLOS
NOW-ROOMATE MATCHING on 3/3’s
$424/person
Call Today! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-1
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST.
WE DO SEMISTER LEASING
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    
9-28-12-85-1
Furn. 1BR/1BA in a 4/4 with 3 other girls.
$350/mo. utilities included, Countryside 
Condos. avl. Mar 1. Jim -cell 305-664-1680, 
work 305-852-4044.   3-27-12-10-1
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
QUIET, CLEAN.
LOTS OF GREEN
1br $375. 2br $425 372-6881, 213-3901        4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, Large 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 
second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 538-2181 lv message    4-25-12-72-2
Deluxe, large one or two bedroom, 60 sec-
ond walk to UF. Wood flrs, washer dryer included, fireplace, patio deck. Can furnish. Short term available. Private Owner. $595-up. 352-538-2181. Lv msg   4-25-12-72-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-12-12-171-2 
FULLY RENOVATED 3BR/BR Apt Homes
Internet, Pest Control, & Refuse Included
Call for Details! 352-335-7656
4-25-12-65-2
1/1 ‘s Starting at $489
Water and Sewer Incl.
352-376-1248 
4-25-11-72-2
Gainesville Place Apartments
Student friendly 4/4’s
Only $459 per person!
www.GainesvillePlace.com
4-25-72-2
Action Real Estate Services
Houses to Condos
1-4 BR, Starting at $450
www.action-realtors.com
352-331-1133 ext 114
4-25-11-72-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 Clean, Quiet 1 & 2 BR apts.
Off SW 20th Ave. $425 to $545. Sorry, no 
pets, or Section 8. Call 335-7066 for info.   4-25-12-72-2AVAILABLE NOW & FALL
●Studio $410 ●1BRs $425-495
●2BR/1.5BA, W/D $580Gore Rabell Real Estate 378-1387
www.Gore-Rabell.com          4-25-11-72-2
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br starting at $475. Many 
floor plans, some with enclosed patios or bal-
conies. Italian tile, bedrooms carpeted. DW, 
W/D hook-ups, verticals, CH/AC. Near bus 
route, some walk to UF. Call 352-332-7700   
4-25-12-72-2
SECTION 8 HOUSING ACCEPTED
Newly remodeled 2 & 3 BDs
Quiet neighborhood. Lots of upgrades.
Free 32" HD Plasma TV for new Sec 8 lease. 
Must see! Call 332-7700    4-25-12-72-2
Gatornest - 300 NW 18 ST
$550 - 1BR/1BA - 3 blocks to UF 
Gatorside - 1600 NW4 AVE
$450 - 1BR/1BA - 4 blocks to UF
Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST
$450 - 1BR/1BA - Bike to UF
2392 SW 2nd Ave. Across from Law School
$1650 - Special spring rate. 4BR/2BA
W/D, DW, Cent AC/Heat
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
3-30-12-53-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
2BR/1BA Sun Key units starting at $550
2BR/1.5BA Sun Harbor units starting at $575
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties 
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-11-80-2
★ CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2/2 Walk to UF, Shands, VA & Pharm School. 
Tile floor, W/D in unit. Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    3-30-12-52-2
TOWNHOUSE - 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-up, 
pvt backyard, carpet, tiles, just painted. Extra clean. $625/mo + $600 sec. 2627 SW 38th Place. Available now. 941-204-1304 or 352-215-3160   4-4-12-45-2
2, 3, 4, & 5 BR houses blocks to UF. Rent di-
rectly from owner, no intermediary. Pets OK, dalyproperties.com or 352-359-3341/359-5584   3-30-12-44-2
Trend's Student Rentals of the Month!
Biven's North - Huge 3BR Lakefront
The Lofts - 3BR condo on Univ Ave
Near Law School - 3/2 1,907 sf
Text "Trend" to 313131
Trend4Rent.com
4-25-74-2
SUN KEY~SUN HARBOR APARTMENTS
999~1001 SW 16th Avenue
1BR/1BA close to UF, Shands & Vet School
Sun Key units starting at $475
Sun Harbor units $525
Furnished Sun Key units available for Fall!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.7041/352.376.6720
4-25-12-58-2
SUN BAY APARTMENTS
708 SW 16th Avenue
Close to UF, Shands & Vet School
1bed/1bath units starting at $475
2bed/2bath units starting at $550
Reduced Deposits for Full Time Grads!
Sun Island Properties
352.376.6720/352.376.7041
4-25-12-58-2
SPACIOUS 2BR/2BA APT.
Convenient location to Shands, UF & Butler 
Plaza. Asking $700/OBO. Please call Ketty 305-332-6566. yttek@hotmail.com  
3-26-11-55-2
MOVE IN TODAY!
3 & 4 bedroom upgraded apartments
*$0 to sign $100 gift card/rent credit
Call today spaces going fast!
Thecrossingatsantafe.com 379.9300
4-25-12-43-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW.352-331-2099       3-27-12-20-2
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are he reby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, han dicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
10, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
VETERANS and SECTION 8
Oakridge Apts 1120 NW 45th Ave. Openings 
for Vets who qualify under Section 8 
Program.  2/1 $550. Pool, RTS, on-site laun -
dry 372-3783    3-29-12-20-2
GREAT VALUE -  WOODLAND TERRACE
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Water, sewer, garbage provided.
Updated units, private courtyards, RTS stop
1BR $445, 2 BR $545. 352-335-0420    3-29-
12-20-2
SERENOLA PINES
Off SW 34th St b/t Archer & Williston Rd.
Updated units, private courtyards, full W/D avail. 1BR $515, 2BR $595 352-335-0420   3-29-12-20-2
4BR/4BA Beautifully Renovated condo spa-
cious kitchen, living area, and bedrooms par-
tially furnished. W/D in unit. Great bus rts ten 
min to UF & shopping. $325/ room. Must rent 
all rooms at same time. Call(941)-232-1960    
4-13-12-31-2
Cute HOUSES for Aug 1
View at www.10houses.com
Cent H/A, W/D provided
Quiet Areas Bike to UF
352-316-0154 nancy@10houses.com   4-5-
12-20-2
DUCKPOND DUPLEX $700- big oak tree, 
UF near, busline, carport, immaculate, carpet, 
2br/1ba, WD hookup, CHA, fans, DW, burglar 
bars, postj@bellsouth.net; 352 284 3873; 352 
376 0080. Prefer grads/quiet adults.   4-4-12-
19-2
Beautiful 2-story house. 2.5 miles from UF. 
5BR/2.5BA 2400sq.ft. on large treed lot. 
Very quiet neighbrhd. H/W & tile floors, ceil-
ing fans, W/D, ref, stove, dishwasher. $1600/
mo & security deposit. 727-686-1404    3-27-
12-10-2
3 Bed House $795/mo available now &
Aug. Central AC, wooden floors, w/d
hook-ups, and a vintage style walking
distance to campus and downtown.
University Ave & NW 8th st area. By Leo
706 Call now! 352-226-3535, 813-347-9379
3-27-12-10-2
***WALK OR BIKE TO UF ***
3/2 vintage home or 2/2 apt includes parking, 
available August 2012. Call Carolyn 352-538-3556 or email alligatoralley@cox.net4-10-12-20-2
2BR/2.5BA LUXURY CONDO
1/2 mile from campus. On busline. Free in-
ternet. W/D, clubhouse. $825/mo. Call 352-332-8841    3-27-12-10-2
------------ Near  UF ------------
gainesvillestudentrentals.com 352-317-4408
               ●2/1 apt  204 nw 18 st $1100               ●4/2 house 929 nw 22 st $1500               ●5/3 house 630 nw 36 st $15003-27-12-10-2
EXCELLENT SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
3BR/2BA & 4BR/3BA. Close to UF.630 NW 34th Terr / 611 NW 36th Terr /3404 NW 7th Pl. Call Mike 352-665-7316 Pets OK.   4-12-12-20-2
Several cute & clean houses & apartments 
available for August, located in quiet NW areas near UF/Downtown. Rates from $600 per month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395; Anita@cozygator.com; www.cozygator.com   3-30-12-10-2
2BR/2BA w Study, Screened porch, end unit 
(Rockwood Villas) $750/m, close to UF, I-75, shopping and bus; partially furnished, W/D, 904.874.5774    5-24-12-30-2
********AVAILABLE NOW ********
1 BR Apartment close to UF. 116 NW 7th Ter. $495/mth. Also Downtown Studio Apt. 216 SW 3rd Ave. $325/mth. Call 870-2760.    4-3-12-10-2Charming 3BR/2BA home. CLOSE TO UF 
& SHANDS. Fenced in backyard. W/D, D/W, 
Garage, Wood flooring. Pets allowed. Move 
in Aug 1. $1,600/mo. Call 813-767-6629.    
4-4-12-10-2
7 blks to UF, 4BR/3BA, 2 masters,
POOL, HOT TUB,
2500sf, 2 prchs, 5 car park,
responsible students or professionals only.
  $2375/mo Aug, yr. lease. 352-222-0211
3-28-12-5-2
2BR/1BA, Central A/C, Mobile home on 
shady lot. On busline. Laundry room, No 
pets. From $345 - $420/mo. Incl water. 1st 
MONTH FREE RENT. Vacant lots available 
4546 NW 13th St. Call 376-5887    4-25-24-
2
Close to UF. 3BR/2BA, 119 NW 11th St; 
3BR/1BA, 1022 NW 4th Ave. Cent A/C, 
W/D hook-ups. No pets. $1700/mo. AND 
2BR/1BA, 912 SW 6th Ave. $700/mo. All 
from Aug 16th - 1 year lease. Call 359-1508    
4-5-10-2
$385/mo 1BR duplex in NE Gville one block 
from shopping. No up/downstairs neighbors! 
Call 352-505-6690 and leave msg. 930B NE 
23rd Ave.   3-28-12-3-2
***5 BEDROOM HOUSE***
Walk to class! Pool. 2 living rooms.
Game room. Lots of parking.
Call 561-866-8234 for further info.
3-30-12-5-2
3/2 1,500 sq. ft., 1.1 acre lot, 2 car gar. Built 
in '05; Meadows on the Prairie. Off Archer 
Rd, 6 mi. W of I75. 10-15 min. to UF; 15-20 min. to SFC. $600/mo. Master BR, $550/mo. other rooms . All utils incl 727-224-5847    4-25-12-23-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.DON’T WAIT
TO PLACE 
YOUR
SUBLEASE AD
Last spring semester
paper published on
April 25th.
CALL TODAY!!!
or
PLACE YOUR AD AT 
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG
DOWNTOWN LIVING AT IT'S BEST!! WALK 
TO HIPP, RESTURANTS, NIGHTLIFE. 3/3 
WASHER,DRYER,CABLE,INTERNET, 
PARKING INCLUDED. PETS OK. $1544
Xreally@mindspring.com    3-28-11-7-3
1 Bedroom/Bath for Sublease in 2 Bdr 2.5 
Bth for SUMMER C
*$600/mth ($100 utilities included)
*Fully Furnished!
*Walking distance to UF Campus
*Located by Sorority Row
*Email: ahester1008@gmail.com for more 
details/tour
3-26-3-3
2/2 Summer Sublease Campus Lodge 
ApartmentsMay-July. $355/month. For more info con-tact: Sung s1134t@gmail.com orMarysol maddiesolz@aol.com    3-30-5-3
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Roommate Matching HERE
Oxford Manor 377-2777
The Landings 336-3838The Laurels 335-4455
Greenwich Green 372-8100
Hidden Lake 374-3866
4-25-72-4Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
COLLEGE ROOMS STARTING AT
$400.00 MONTH, UTILITIES INCLUDED
NO MOVE IN COST.
WE DO SEMISTER LEASING
Frances 352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty    
9-28-12-85-4
Female roommate needed in furnished
condo, 1.5 miles from UF  $379/MOcable, internet, utilities, pool+ morebeautifully renovated, on bus route,  Call 352  262-2871, Available 6/1/12    4-11-12-20-4
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-25-72-5
WALK/BIKE TO UF! 4BED/2BATH
FURNISHED, REMODELED HOME FOR 
RENT, TILE, STAINLESS APPLIANCES,
HARD WOOD FLOORS, FIREPLACE +
BONUS ROOM. $1750/mo  PH 352-317-6530   
4-4-12-10-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 will deliver.      4-25-12-72-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        4-25-12-72-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-
7490        4-25-12-72-6
 MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012 § ALLIGATOR, 11
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.   4-25-72-6
BEDROOM SET. 7pc Cherry, Queen/ king 
bed, dresser w/mirror, 2 nightstands, chests avail. Dovetail const. New, in boxes. Can de-liver. Retail $4500, must sell, sacrifice $850 (352) 372-7490    4-25-72-6
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail $1800. Sacrifice $700. Call  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
FUTON Solid oak mission-style frame w/
mattress. New, in box. $160   332-9899___________________________________.DINETTE SET 5pc $120 Brand new in box. Never used.  352-377-9846         4-25-72-6
**BEDS - ALL BRAND NEW**
**Full $100 Queen $125 King $200**
Orthopedic pillow-top sets. Brand name 
matching sets not used or refurbished. Still in plastic, direct from factory!  352-333-7516.       
4-25-72-6
BED- QUEEN New orthopedic pillowtop mat-
tress and boxspring set. Brand name, brand 
new, still in plastic with warranty. Can deliver. 
$130  352-377-9846.       4-25-72-6BEDROOM SET- $300 BRAND NEW
Still in boxes! 5 pieces include: Headboard,  
Nightstand, Dresser, Mirror, Chest. Must sell, 
can deliver. 352-377-9846.       4-25-12-72-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
4-25-12-23-7
Sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more 
in the Electronics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●●●PARKING●●●
Private, Secure, Guaranteed. 60 sec to UF. 
Reserve now! Reasonable rates. 352-538-
2181. Can leave mssg. 4-25-12-72-10
●Uf Surplus Equipment Auctions ●
are underway...bikes, computers, printers, 
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in bidding go to: surplus.ufl.edu  392-03704-25-12-72-10
GOATS FOR SALE
Charlie - 352-278-1925       4-25-73-10
Guitars and Musical Instruments
New, Used and Factory RefurbishedCheck Us Out Before You Buy!!Leonardo's Music, Micanopy, FL352-450-0928 Leonardos302.com4-25-11-99-10
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
★★★WWW.RPMMOTORCYCLES.COM★★
FULL SERVICE MOTORCYCLE - SCOOTER REPAIR. 12TH YEAR IN GVILLE. OEM & AFTERMARKET PARTS. BEST TIRE PRICES IN TOWN. 352-377-6974    4-25-73-11
4-25-12-72-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Now carrying Vespa Scooters!
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
www.NS4L.com
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-25-12-72-11
★★★Road Rat Motors★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $899. 1yr 
Parts AND labor warranties included. 376-
6275 RoadRatMotors.com   4-25-12-72-11
Road Rat Motors is Gville’s  #1 service facility. 
We repair ALL brands of scooters. Pickups 
available. Lowest labor rates around. Quickest 
turnaround time. Run by Gator Grads so we 
know how to treat our customers! 376-6275    
4-25-12-72-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Students can rent to own!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-25-12-72-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   8-15-58-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
CARS - CARS Buy●Sell●Trade
Clean BMW, Volvo, Mercedes
Toyota, Honda, Nissan cars
3432 N Main St. www.carrsmith.com
CARRSMITH AUTO SALES 373-1150
4-25-72-12
WE BUY JUNK CARS
Titles Only. Call KT
352-281-9980 or 352-215-3151    4-25-12-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!!!!VEHICLES $500 AND UP!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME TODAY!OVER 150 VEHICLES IN STOCK!CARS, TRUCKS, SUVS, & VANS!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
BUY FOR BLOWOUT
PRICES & SAVE BIG!!!!VEHICLES STARTING $500!!PRICES NEGOTIABLE!!!352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
95 F350 $999
97 FORD EXPLORER $170098 GRAND AM $199998 CHEVY VENTURE $2999352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
98 CADILLAC CATERA $3999
00 BUICK CENTURY $390098 CHRYSLER SBRING $390001 MITS MIRAGE $3900352-338-1999     4-25-72-1202 SATURN $3900
98 TOYOTA COROLLA $3900
98 TOYOTA 4RUNNER $4900
02 TOYOTA COROLLA $5900
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
99 ACURA INTEGRA $2999
95 CHEVY CAMERO $2500
98 HONDA ACCORD $3900
98 DODGE DURANGO $4999
352-338-1999     4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!
CARS, TRUCKS, SUVs, & VANS
30 DAY WARRANTY
352-375-9090       4-25-72-12
SUN RISE AUTO SALES
BRING W2 AND DRIVE HOME!
30 DAY WARRANTY!
NO CREDIT CHECK!
352-375-9090      4-25-72-12
02 CHEVY CAMERO $6999
04 CHEVY ASTRO $6999
05 CHEVY IMPALA $7999
07 CHEVY COBALT $8999
352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
06 PT CRUISER $7999
02 DODGE RAM $8999
05 DODGE DURANGO $9999
04 KIA SORENTO $9999
352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
06 SATURN ION $7999
03 HONDA CRV $899905 GMC SIERRA $999905 FORD F150 $10,999352-375-9090    4-25-65-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
LOCAL ARTIST NEEDS:
★ Gold ★ Diamonds ★ Gems ★ Class Rings 
★ ETC ★ Top Cash $$$ or Trade ★
OZZIE’S FINE JEWELRY 352-318-4009.  4-25-72-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-25-72-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948  3-23-12-74-13
12, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
St. Francis House is a 
homeless shelter and soup kitchen
located in downtown Gainesville
and we are looking for help 
from volunteers like you. 
St. Francis House is in need of donations
such as personal hygiene items
and household cleaners such as
bleach and liquid Lysol. 
If you are interested in helping, 
please contact
Stephanie Breval at (352) 378-9079
or by e-mail at
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
$100.00 REWARD.
mcgurn.com/wanted
HELP USIDENTIFY THIS PERSON/STUDENT    3-26-3-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing 
money.
Daytime Advertising 
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator 
Advertising Production Department
is accepting student applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe 
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
Must be available to work Summer C.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are wel -
come to reapply with current schedule. EOE
BARTENDING
$300 A DAY POTENTIAL
No experience necessary, training provided.
800-965-6520 ext 138            4-25-12-72-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-25-12-72-14
STUDENTPAYOUTS.COM
Paid survey takers needed. Gainesville. 
100% FREE to join. Click on Surveys   4-25-12-72-14
 Summer Jobs
                   ● $2400
                   ● Co-ed camp
                   ● Room and Board included
Get Paid to Play!The Florida Elks Youth Camp (FEYC) needscollege students for summer camp counselors ages 18 and up. FEYC is an over-night camp located in Umatilla, FL. The camp runs June 11 – Aug 4. Please contact Krys Ragland at 1-800-523-1673 Ext. 251 or 352 455-4267. www.floridaelks.org/feyc/index.aspx4-25-12-72-14$STUDENTS GET CASH ON THE SPOT$
For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-
niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy 
Chic Resale Boutique 2906 NW 13th St. 372-
1226 sandysresale.com    4-25-12-57-14
ATTORNEY WITH MINIMUM TWO YEARS 
EXPERIENCE IN ESTATE PLANNING & 
BUSINESS LAW wanted for prestigious 
Sarasota law firm. Please send resume to 
sarasotalaw@yahoo.com    4-11-12-30-14
PHONE REPS NEEDED ASAP
Flexible Shifts, Must be Articulate and 
Reliable 371-5888 X111 or 6020 NW 4th Pl, Ste G    3-30-17-14
Seeking a personal assistant.i.e., miscella -
neous errands, phone calls, resolving minor 
issues, mailings, bill payment and general 
organizing.You will be paid $550/week send 
your resume to :lin.da2@aol.com 786-519-
3572    3-27-12-10-14
Andrea is leaving to get married. Busy 
law firm seeks F/T admin/legal assistant. 
Dependable w/great typing and proofreading 
skills. Exp. w/ Word & Excel. Spanish speak-
ing a plus! Pay DOE. Send resume to
carrillolawoffice@gmail.com     3-27-10-14
Students needed for part-time sales, $10-
$12/hr., no experience required, flexible 
schedules, must have good communication 
skills, located in Creekside Mall, call Mike 
352-533-2201   3-27-10-14
Do you want to quit smoking?
We are currently recruiting smokers between 
the ages of 18 and 60 for a smoking cessa-
tion study. Please contact the UF Smoking 
Lab and Clinic at 352-273-2151 or
smokeclinic@gmail.com for further details.   
3-27-10-14
Volunteer for Money
Participants needed for one-hour focus group. Must be 18 years or older and attend UF.  We want your perspective on mental health. Completely CONFIDENTIAL. Will receive $20 UF Bookstore gift card and free pizza. Email GatorWellProjects@mail.ufl.edu with subject line Focus Group Volunteer.   3-30-12-14
352 Media Group is seeking a part-time 
Network Support Technician. Experience w/programming & web technologies is pre-ferred. Email resume to hr@352media.com   3-27-12-7-14
New Scooters 4 Less is looking for a kind 
and polite PT or FT secretary. Must be avail. to work over summer and fall.  Email Collin@NS4L.com for details.   4-2-10-14
New Scooters 4 Less is hiring PT and FT 
scooter technicians.  Must be avail for sum-mer and fall semesters.  Must have experi -
ence with 2T & 4T motors.  Email Collin@NS4L.com.    4-2-10-14
Looking for business partners. Are you tired 
of doing what you are doing & getting what you are getting? Need a "B" plan? If you an-swered yes then let me teach you to invest in yourself. GillisExpress2012@gmail.com    3-26-12-4-14
Re-Tech Smartphone Centers is now hir-
ing in Gainesville. Must have open avail -
abilty and a passion for electronic devices. IT background and a technical aptitude re-quired. Send resume to hr@re-tech.com   3-28-12-5-14
Female Tutor/Driver/Sitter, Apr 25-Jun 6: 
3:15p-7:00p MTWRF. Jun 7-Aug 17: occa-sional. Aug 20-Dec 19: 2:45p-6:00p. Some nite & wkends. Strong math skills. Call 332-6465.    3-27-12-4-14
Looking For a Job?
JobTricks.org
3-30-7-14
FARAH'S ON THE AVENUE
is now hiring for the summer semester. Come fill out an application between 2 & 5pm at 1120 W. University Ave. No phone calls, please.    4-4-10-14RTNCF needs students for summer
camp counselors. Overnight camp,
July in Alachua. Need AmeriCorps
Members for August (352)692-4973
http://rebuildingtogetherncf.org   4-11-12-15-
14
PT Leasing Agents
Perform all aspects of property leasing, in-
cluding but not limited to; Lease up of proper -
ty, resident verification, file completion, cus-tomer satisfaction. Please submit resumes to 
hr@emmergroup.com or fill out our applica -
tion that’s on our website: www.emmergroup.
com  fax to 352-376-2260 DFWP, EOE
3-29-12-5-14
PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST
wanted for the following hours: Monday 
through Friday 4pm-7pm, and Saturday 9am-
5pm. Apply in person only at Southeast Car 
Agency, 310 NE 39th Ave.    4-5-12-10-14
Home organization, light housework, cata-
loging library. Flexible hours, 10-15 hours per week, $10/hr. Email qualifications to kinsbill2000@yahoo.com    3-27-12-2-14
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-
vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
IMPORT AUTO REPAIR. BMW, Mercedes, 
Porsche, Volvo, VW, Honda, Toyota, Nissan, 
Mazda. Quality craftsmanship, reasonable 
prices, near UF, AAA approved 378-7830 www.carrsmith.com   4-25-72-15
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 orexpresstrainingservices.com  4-25-12-72-15
PERSONAL TRAINING 300 
Personal and Group Training
Flexible Scheduling   Exclusive Facility 
Call for a free workout
339-2199
4-25-72-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
www.UFMoverGuys.com
Licensed & Insured ● Last Minute Specials
Loading & Unloading ● Full-Service Mover. 
352-222-0211. FL Movers Reg No IM1847    
4-25-12-72-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiOnline.com
Private Experienced Affordable    4-25-74 15
Epic Photographer for Hire
Email suzettecook@onebox.com
Gator Alum, hrly chg. You keep the digital files
www.mizdigital.com  352-260-2511
4-25-12-72-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 
minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-portunities. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     6-21-11-98-15 FREE GRE WORKSHOP from the UF 
Teaching Center.  M-R, March 26 – 29  from 
5:00- 7:00 p.m.  Verbal sessions on M & W, 
Math on T & R.  Go to teachingcenter.ufl.edu 
to register and learn the room location.
3-26-4-20
INTERESTED IN FIGHTING?
Do you have what it takes?Boxing, kickboxing or MMA?local event coming to Gainesville.904-333-3183     3-29-12-5-20
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Every Sat & Sun - Hwy 301
15 min from Gainesville 468-2255
4-25-72-21
Rocky Creek Paintball
In Gainesville ● Better Prices
Better Fields ● Better Call 371-2092
4-25-12-72-21
SHOTGUN SHOOTING SPORTS
Open To Public We-Sa-Su, Noon-Dusk
Skeet - Trap - Olympic Trap -5 Standgatorskeetandtrap.com  352-372-10445-17-12-67-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Need place to house 2 year old crate trained 
pitbull. Moved and can't have dog at current 
place. I will feed, walk, etc. but need place to 
house him.Can pay small fee. Call 281-4240 
or vanvliet@ufl.edu This is NOT an adoption.    3-27-12-5-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.ANXIOUS, STRESSED, DEPRESSED, RELATIONSHIP CONCERNS? Don't hesis-tate in getting help another day. Make an ap-pointment with Theresa Rodriguez, licensed psychotherapist. Visit her website and make an appt online or call her at (352) 359-0264. Theresa.Rodriguez.com    4-9-14-15
 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
All Women’s Health Center
ABORTION
Free Pregnancy Test
RU-486 Available
378-9191
www.abortiongainesville.com
4-25-72-16
THE TRUE YOU!
Lose 8-15 pounds in 4 weeks
Only $119!
Gain muscle while you lose fat
Groups forming now. 339-2199
4-25-72-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
★Family Chiropractic ★
Since 1977. Two blocks from U.F.
373-7070
4-25-72-18
Flashbacks buys, trades, and consigns 
clothing, jewelry, shoes and purses. We pay $. We buy name brands, mall brands, indie, punk, goth, urban, prep, hippie, retro, and costume. 509 NW 10th Ave. 352-375-3752   4-25-72-18
Best religion? No religion!
Superb Bible instructions:versebyverseministry.orgJust click and listen.     3-30-10-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
More Content Online at alligatorSports.org
Florida’s women’s tennis team beat Ole Miss on Sunday on 
the strength of Caroline Hitimana’s eighth straight singles victory. ... Also, vote on our new poll question.Florida freshman third baseman Josh Tobias is out three to four weeks with a fractured hamate bone in his hand.AP Photo
Senior Erving Walker overcame his 5-foot-8 stature and a crowded backcourt to finish as UF’s career leader in as-sists with 547. He recorded 12 points and seven assists in his final game, Saturday’s Elite Eight loss to Louisville. 
JOHN BOOTHE
Alligator Staff Writer
 
PHOENIX — Before all of the wins, the trips to the Elite 
Eight and the record-setting performances, there was a time 
when Erving Walker questioned becoming a Gator.
Florida was fresh off an NIT season in 2008 and there was 
little room in UF’s crowded backcourt — even for a 5-foot-6, 140-pound freshman out of Middle Village, N.Y.
With starting point guard Nick Calathes already en-
trenched in Florida’s lineup and backup Jai Lucas still in the 
fold, Walker was heading into a situation in Gainesville as the least-touted of three 
guards and also — on paper — the least physically gifted.  
“I think a lot of people told Erving that 
this would be a bad fit,” coach Billy Don-ovan said. “Too much depth, too many guards, you need to re-open your recruit-
ment.”
In order to keep Walker, Donovan 
thought he would have to make another last-ditch sales pitch 
on behalf of the Gators. When the pair finally talked about Walker’s future at Florida, Donovan pleasantly realized he 
was wrong.
“He was great,” Donovan said. “He just basically said, 
‘Coach, wherever I go, I have to compete. And I have no prob-
lem competing and just want an opportunity.’”
In Walker’s four years playing at UF, Donovan recalled the 
conversation as the one moment that will always impress him the most about Walker’s character and work ethic. Under Donovan’s influence, Walker establishes legacy at Florida
TOM GREEN
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The only thing that stood between 
Florida and its first College World Series 
title last season was South Carolina — a 
team that has had the Gators’ number 
recently.
Entering the weekend, Florida had 
lost just four of its last 35 series, with 
two of those four coming at the hands 
of South Carolina. The Gamecocks took two out of three games last year in Gainesville and then swept the Gators in the CWS championship series.
After a 9-3 drubbing in Thursday’s 
series opener, it appeared No. 8 South Carolina still had No. 1 Florida’s num-ber. That is, until the Gators (22-2, 5-1 
Southeastern Conference) took the final 
two games to win their first SEC road series of the season.
“The big picture is it’s another series and every series counts the same,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said Saturday . “But to go on the road and play in a hostile envi-ronment like we did and battle after los-
ing the first game, I’m awfully proud.”
Florida easily took Friday’s game, 
8-2, but “battle” 
was a fitting word to describe 
Saturday’s 5-4 
rubber-match victory.
The Gators jumped out to an early 
3-0 lead thanks to a Mike Zunino sacri-fice fly in the first inning and a pair of 
solo home runs from Daniel Pigott and Zunino in the third. 
While Florida jumped out to an early 
lead, sophomore righty Jonathon Craw-
ford held the Gamecocks (17-7, 1-5 SEC) 
hitless through three innings.
“Any time you play on the road, you Gators take two of three in 
CWS rematch with ‘Cocks
see bAsebALL, PA ge 14eND OF gRegULATION
Kenny Boynton carried the painful 
memories for a year, all the while waiting for this shot. 
Once again, an 11-point lead was slip-
ping away in the closing seconds of an Elite Eight game, and once again, Boynton had a chance. 
Down by three with eight seconds remain-
ing, Boynton received the pass from Brad Beal, gathered and let go of a jumper. As he landed he held his follow through, clenching his teeth for what must have felt like an eter -
nity as the ball soared toward the hoop. Real-izing the shot was off, Boynton leaned back and to his left, trying to change the ball’s tra-jectory by sheer force of will. Predictably, his attempt was futile. The ball clanged off the right side of the rim and Florida’s collapse was complete. A chance at the Final Four had slipped away yet again. Boynton sluggishly swung his arms in dejection and began his walk to the other end of the floor, where Lou-isville hit one of two free throws to ice a 72-68 win.
Boynton had been in this situation before. In 2011’s Elite Eight loss to Butler, Boyn-
ton had a chance to save the game. With 19 seconds remaining in overtime and Florida trailing by one, he missed a catch-and-shoot three after a hand off from Erv-ing Walker. The shot likely would have given Florida the victory, but it caught only iron and Butler 
moved into the Final Four with a 74-71 win.
The miss and the loss stuck with Boynton 
through the offseason, serving as inspiration for 2011-12. 
“I know this year we’ve got the amount of 
talent that we can make it in the same posi-tion we were in last year,” Boynton said at the team’s media day on Oct. 12. “We just need to finish it out this year.”
His prediction proved prophetic. The 
talented Gators put themselves in the exact position they were in last year: In the Elite Eight, with an 11-point lead and only 9:03 separating them from a Final Four berth. By KenPom.com’s win probability estimations, Florida had about a 90 percent chance of vic-tory. 
But it was not to be against Butler, and it 
UF loss brings familiar misery
see gReg, PA ge 15
greg Luca
twitter: @gregluca
UF Baseballsee W ALkeR, PA ge 15Donovan
Poll Results
Where did you want to see Tim 
Tebow end up?54% JA gUARs
27% DOLPHINs
11% JeT s
17% OTHeR
87 total votesgot to play defense, get a good 
start on the mound and obviously score ﬁ  rst,” O’Sullivan said. “If 
you fall behind early on the road, 
or you don’t pitch early in the game, sometimes things can spiral out of control.”
  Things began to slip away from 
Florida in the fourth, when Craw-ford gave up a leadoff hit and then 
an error by Pigott in center ﬁ  eld 
— the Gators’ third outﬁ  eld error since losing senior Tyler Thompson to a torn ACL last week — helped start a South Carolina rally.
  The Gamecocks tacked on two 
runs by the end of the frame, and then tied up the game the follow-ing inning. 
Meanwhile, South Carolina’s 
bullpen dominated Florida’s 
lineup for the better part of six in-
nings.
  Lefty Tyler Webb gave up just 
two hits over 3.2 innings. He and 
closer Matt Price combined to re-tire 17 of the ﬁ  rst 20 hitters they faced.
  With Florida down to its ﬁ  nal 
out, it looked like the Gators’ re-
cent struggles against the Game-
cocks were going to continue. But 
after Vickash Ramjit and Cody Dent reached with two outs in the ninth, junior Nolan Fontana — who embodied Florida’s strife 
against South Carolina by going 1 
for 18 against the Gamecocks last season — drove in the winning runs with a two-RBI triple that helped prove UF can take a series from the team that stood in its way 
in Omaha, Neb.
  “Every day is a new day and 
yesterday never comes back to you,” Fontana said. “Regardless 
of what happens that day , we love each other and work hard with each other each and every day to 
get to where we want to be at the 
end of the season.”
  A radio broadcast contributed to 
this report.
  Contact Tom Green at tgreen@
alligator.org. 14, ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
Brett Le Blanc / Alligator Staff
Junior shortstop Nolan Fontana drove in the game-winning runs with a two-out triple in the ninth inning of 
Saturday’s rubber match between No. 1 Florida and No. 8 South Carolina.
SOFTBALL
  JONATHAN CZUPRYN
 Alligator Writer
   
 Last year, Michelle Moultrie set 
the bar. Halfway through this sea-
son, she has raised it.
  Against Arkansas on Sunday , 
the senior center ﬁ  elder went 2 for 3 
with a solo home run and three runs 
scored. Moultrie’s performance against the Razorbacks was just a continuation of her record-breaking season. 
  Moultrie had no problem lead-
ing Florida (29-2, 10-1 Southeastern Conference) to three straight victo-ries in Fayetteville, Ark., including 
Sunday’s 5-0 win against Arkansas 
(18-12, 2-9 SEC). For the weekend, she was 8 for 11 with ﬁ  ve extra-base hits, including two home runs.  “I did pretty well,” Moultrie said. 
“I was on base a lot and got some hits, so I was happy about that. But I’m not really concerned with indi-vidual goals. Ultimately , I’m just trying to get on base and get hits to help my team.”
  In 2011, Moultrie was named to 
the Louisville Slugger/NFCA All-
America Third Team. But after her 
move from leadoff hitter to No. 2 in the order, Florida’s lone senior may earn a spot on the ﬁ  rst team. 
  “She’s locked in,” Walton said. 
“She hits to every part of the ﬁ  eld. One thing we talk about is just get-ting better every day. And she is cer-tainly doing her part.”
  While Moultrie is driving in 
more runs and is on pace to top her RBI total from last year (40), the speedster can still round the bases to score. On Sunday , Moultrie scored three of the Gators’ ﬁ  ve runs after scoring two in Friday’s 6-0 win and one in Saturday’s 3-2 victory . 
  Twenty percent of Florida’s runs 
this year have 
been scored by Moultrie, who 
ranked in the 
NCAA’s top 10 in runs entering the weekend. 
  The two play-
ers most grateful for Moultrie’s 
success were Alyssa Bache and Hannah Rogers. Bache started Sun-
day’s game, but Rogers took over 
in the third inning and pitched ﬁ  ve scoreless frames to get her 16th win of the season.
  Moultrie has been giving her 
pitchers more run support since Feb. 17, when she was moved to the No. 2 spot in the lineup. Her batting average increased from .267 to .415 and her hits per game went from .67 to 1.35 during that span.
  Sunday’s support included a 
third-inning home run that gave the Gators a 3-0 lead.
  “She has provided us a little 
more punch, a little more offense, to get things going,” Walton said. “She has really made a big change in her game. She doesn’t strike out very often, she doesn’t get out very often and she’s just tough to defend. 
[Sunday] she hit a rocket down the 
third-base line, and the third base-man barely even got her glove up, so she’s a tough out and really hard to defend.”
  It is not unusual for Moultrie to 
lead UF in hits or RBI, as she did in Sunday’s win. The Gators are wit-nessing a reformed Moultrie; she has set a trio of new single-game ca-reer highs this season with ﬁ  ve RBI, four runs scored and three stolen 
bases. 
  In her ﬁ  rst three years as a Gator, 
Moultrie tallied 12 home runs, but 
she has already hit eight in 31 games during her senior campaign.
  “Each year you just learn more,” 
Moultrie said. “You build upon your skills from the past year. It’s a good thing whenever you can see 
progress year to year. But we really 
only have one goal, and that’s to win a championship.” 
 Moultrie’s big weekend powers Florida to sweep of Arkansas
Ninth-inning triple by Fontana helps UF clinch ﬁ  rst SEC road series 
BASEBALL ,            
from page 13Moultrie
locker, using his white iPhone as 
a distraction while reporters sur -
rounded him. “We made mistakes on our own. It wasn’t that they were playing good, it wasn’t anything 
that they did, it was just we lost the 
game on our own, our mistakes.”
The Gators were 0 of 4 from the 
field during the Cardinals’ 10-0 run and 1 of 12 in the final eight min-
utes. Walker, a senior, missed two 
key free throws after drilling four straight earlier in the game after a 
foul and a technical called on Louis-
ville coach Rick Pitino.
Beal, who was named to the West 
Regional All-Tournament Team, committed a turnover that led to a jumper from Smith. He was also 
called for a travel with 18 seconds 
left after coming up with a steal. In all, Florida turned it over 14 times, 
leading to 15 Louisville points. 
But the Gators and Beal had 
their chances late. Beal, who scored 63 points on 23-of-38 (60.5 percent) 
shooting and grabbed 33 rebounds in UF’s four tournament games, had 
a layup attempt blocked with 48 
seconds left and Florida trailing by one. 
“It’s terrible,” Beal said of letting 
the game slip away. “I was thinking 
about that as soon as I saw the shot miss. … When you foul and you’re 
walking down to the other end, 
you’re like, ‘Dang, we had the game 
in our hands.’”
Still, with the Gators down three 
after a pair of free throws from Smith, who scored or assisted on  nine of Louisville’s final 15 points, 
Beal had a chance to tie it. But his 3-point attempt from near the top 
of the key clanged off iron, as did Boynton’s second attempt with just 
eight ticks left. 
“I felt I was open for a minute, 
and then I let it go,” Beal said. “It went off. I got the rebound back, 
kicked it to Kenny, it was off. It just happens. We just didn’t execute plays down the stretch at all.”
Florida was 21-1 when leading at 
halftime before Saturday’s loss, and now heads into the offseason uncer -
tain about the future at point guard 
with Walker graduating. The Gators 
also await a decision from Beal, who said he wasn’t thinking about next 
season yet but is projected as a first-round pick in the NBA draft.
Five Gators scored in double fig-
ures, with Murphy and Beal leading the way with 14 apiece. Murphy also 
grabbed eight rebounds, while Beal had seven. Walker, who afterward 
in the locker room clutched a towel 
to his face to block the tears, finished with 12 points and seven assists in 
his final collegiate game. 
Pitino is now 7-0 all-time against 
Florida coach Billy Donovan, who played under Pitino at Providence 
25 years ago. 
Both talked fondly of the other 
leading up to the game, and that didn’t change after a closely con-tested matchup.
“I personally , for me, am very 
happy for coach Pitino,” Donovan said. “Certainly emotionally going 
into the game it’s always a difficult 
situation like that, with our relation-ship, but I don’t think any coach en-
joys losing in this type of situation. 
But if I had to lose, it would be to him.”
After saying Friday that it’s not 
difficult for him to play against a coach he loves, Pitino was similarly 
effusive Saturday.
“It was very difficult because of 
the way the game ended, because they outplayed us,” Pitino said. “For 
32 minutes they outplayed us. And it really hurt inside. As much as I 
felt like celebrating, it really hurt be-
cause he did such a masterful job of coaching.” 
Contact Matt Watts at mwatts@
alligator.org.
AP Photo
Freshman guard Brad Beal was named to the West Regional All-Tournament Team but missed two shots 
in the final minute of Florida’s 11-point collapse. He also committed a pair of late turnovers. 
Beal ends impressive tournament with costly mistakes  
HOOPS , from page 1
was not to be against Louisville. The Cardinals came back, 
ending the Gators’ season a game shy of the Final Four and providing a kick to the stomach even harder than last year’s 
blow. 
Russ Smith and Chane Behanan hit tough shot after 
tough shot, and Florida missed some good looks. Beal trav-
eled twice and missed a layup after a baseline drive with 
4:39 remaining. In all, the Gators scored three points on 
1-of-12 shooting and 1-of-4 from the free-throw line over the final 8:15. After hitting 8 of 11 threes against Louisville’s zone in the first half, Florida hit 0 of 9 against a man-to-man look in the second. 
As Billy Donovan said, it was “totally different” from what happened against Butler last season, when UF gave the game away by yielding offensive rebounds and not fighting for loose balls.
But for UF’s players, it was 2011 all over again.
“Same feeling,” Boynton said. 
“Really similar because you taste victory with five min-
utes left and just weren’t able to close the game out,” Patric Young said. 
Maybe Florida should have gone inside more. Despite 
Louisville’s foul trouble, neither Young nor Murphy at-tempted a shot after 6:55. Maybe the Gators should’ve at-tacked the basket more or settled for fewer jumpers. Maybe Beal shouldn’t have traveled. 
All of those points are moot now. Another UF season has 
ended with heartbreak, leaving another memory sure to cause months of torment.  Walker said at the start of the year that he and Boynton 
hardly left the house for two weeks after the loss to Butler. He said the feeling of failure would probably be with him for the rest of his life, but that he’d use it to learn and get 
better. 
It’s impossible not to feel for UF’s lone senior now, as he 
ends his career with two trips to the doorstep, no appear -
ances in the Final Four and no chance to redeem himself next year. 
It can’t be much easier for Boynton, Murphy and Young, 
who have to start from scratch with the knowledge that 
twice they’ve been as close as it gets to the pinnacle of col-lege basketball.  
And there’s no one they can blame but themselves.Contact Greg Luca at gluca@alligator.org.GREG , from page 13
Lone senior’s record-breaking career comes up short of Final Four goal
While others might point to Walker’s 
game-winning shots, starting on back-to-
back Elite Eight teams or his school-record 
547 career assists as his finest achievements 
as a Gator, the unique understanding Dono-van found with Walker — as only a player and coach can have — is something both 
grew to cherish.
Twenty-seven years ago, Donovan was 
in the same situation as Walker – question-
ing his future as an unheralded point guard at Providence and asking his former coach 
Rick Pitino, who is now at Louisville, if he 
needed to look at other colleges.
When Pitino realized that no other team 
wanted Donovan — who had grown out-of-shape and complacent after a year on the 
bench — the coach convinced him to stay and lose weight during the summer.
“He came back in awesome shape, was 
the third guard on the team that year.  The 
following year he got so good,” Pitino said. “I’ve never had in my life anyone work as 
hard to improve as him, in 35 years. … That 
was the start of his college legend.”
In his senior year, Donovan started at 
point guard and guided Pitino’s Friars on an unlikely run in the 1987 NCAA Tournament 
that ended in the Final Four.
On Saturday, Walker’s own record-break-
ing college career finished deep in the tour -
nament, just a game shy of Donovan’s ulti-mate achievement as a player.
While losing to his good friend and men-
tor was bittersweet for Donovan, it was 
nothing short of heartbreaking for Walker, whose final stat line read 12 points, seven as-
sists and just two turnovers. “We had a great journey and it’s tough to 
get to the Elite Eight and we did that and I’m proud of these guys for it,” Walker said. “But 
we wanted to get to that Final Four and con-tend for a title. Almost doesn’t count when you’re right there.”
As Florida’s lone senior and perhaps 
its only offseason departure pending Brad Beal’s decision to either stay at UF or enter the NBA Draft, Walker could already pain-
fully see a future 
without him on 
the team for the first time in four 
seasons. 
Walker has played in the second-most 
games in Florida history and has seen more minutes on the court than any Gators player since 1975. 
He ends his career fourth in all-time scor -ing, second in 3-pointers made and in the top-10 in six other statistical categories.    
“I think this program is still on the up-
rise,” Walker said. “They have a lot of great players.  And I think coach Donovan will continue to do a great job and I think they’ll get to the Final Four next year.”
While all of those moments and accom-
plishments will be hard to leave behind for Walker, perhaps the toughest will be going forward without Donovan in his life day af-
ter day. 
When asked about the impact his coach 
had on him during the last four years, Walk-
er finally broke down.
“He means a lot. A great male figure in 
my life. He helped me in so many ways as an athlete,” Walker said before having to pause. “And just as a person.”
Contact John Boothe at jboothe@alligator.org.
WALKER , from page 13
UF Bask etball“I felt I was open for a 
minute, and then I let it go.”
Brad Beal
UF guard16, ALLIGATOR §  MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2012
David Carr / Alligator Staff
Florida freshman Kytra Hunter posted a career-best 9.975 on vault 
to help rally the Gators to their second SEC title in three years.  
� THE FRESHMAN WON THE ALL-AROUND 
TITLE WITH A 39.625.
LANDON WATNICK
Alligator Writer
 
Kytra Hunter could have backed down against the 
Southeastern Conference’s experienced heavyweights. 
She could have let the most intense environment she had faced in her young college career intimidate her.
Instead, Florida’s freshman all-around competitor 
rose to the occasion — and propelled the Gators to SEC supremacy.
Hunter recorded a 39.625 to snag the SEC all-around 
title as No. 1 Florida (17-1, 5-1 SEC) hoisted its eighth SEC Championship trophy in school history and third in six years Saturday in Duluth, Ga.
The 39.625 was Hunter’s second-highest all-around 
score this season, and it placed her ahead of the SEC Gymnast of the Year, Arkansas’ Jaime Pisani (39.50). Hunter is the Gators’ first SEC All-Around Champion since Kristen Guise in 1995 and the first UF freshman to win since Elfi Schlegel in 1983.
In addition, Hunter was named SEC Freshman of 
the Year — the third straight year a Gator has earned the honor. Alaina Johnson won it last year, and Ashanée Dickerson took home the award in 2010.
“She’s only a freshman, and to win the SEC all-
around title, that’s just a phenomenal achievement,” ju-nior Marissa King said. “It’s an honor to have her on the team. She has yet more great things to come.” 
Hunter’s all-around score was the highest at the 
SEC Championship since Georgia’s Courtney Kupets notched a 39.775 in 2009. 
Ironically , Hunter and Kupets both come from the 
same elite-level club, Hill’s Gymnastics, in Gaithersburg, Md. 
“That just shows her competitive experience and the level that she is at,” coach Rhonda Faehn said. 
On vault, Hunter tallied her best score of the after -
noon. She posted a collegiate-best 9.975 to win the SEC vault title by a margin of .05 points. 
Not only did the near-perfect performance excite her 
teammates, but Hunter herself was impressed by her execution.
“My vault performance was amazing,” Hunter said. 
“I’ve been practicing on vault a lot with sticking drills. It’s helped a lot and it showed [Saturday].”
Her 9.975 turned out to be a key factor in Florida’s 
turnaround. After UF’s first two events, it trailed No. 5 Georgia by .125. But the team exploded with a 49.525 vault score to rally to the top of the leaderboard and claim a .325 lead over the six-team field. 
Even when Florida slightly struggled on its first two 
events, Hunter shined. She placed second on balance beam with a 9.875 behind Pisani’s 9.9 and tied for sec-
ond on floor exercise with four gymnasts at 9.9.
Hunter also shared fifth 
on uneven bars with three 
others (9.875) to close out her historic day in The Arena at Gwinnett Center.
“I’ve said from the beginning, she’s one of the top 
all-arounders in the country,” Faehn said. “Kytra really put together a great meet. But she’s very humble and disciplined.”
The Gators will learn today at 3 p.m. which site they 
will be assigned for the NCAA Regional Championships on April 7. If Florida finishes as one of the top two teams at its location, it will return to Duluth for the NCAA Championships on April 20-22.
“Knowing that we did make mistakes, and knowing 
that there are regionals and nationals to come back and fix those, we’re in a good place right now,” Hunter said. “We still have to go out and work hard. Winning the SEC Championship doesn’t mean that we can go home and relax.”Hunter vaults UF to SEC championship
UF Gymnastics