VOLUME 107 ISSUE 138 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2013
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11
SPORTS 1486/62 Snakes, lizards, a prairie dog, oh my: Exotic animals adopted on amnesty day
The pet owners were asked no questions, pg 3. Senate approves executive committee chairs
Students Party senators tried to block four nominations, pg 5.  
County Commission passes wage-theft ordinance
It had been in the works since January, pg 8. UF softball ace 
Hannah Rogers looks 
to break out of a slump 
as Florida plays Florida 
State tonight at 6 p.m..
Read the story 
on page 15.
Elise Giordano / Alligator Staff
Newly elected Mayor Ed Braddy mingles with supporters after his victory was announced at The Warehouse on 
Tuesday night. Braddy received about 55 percent of the vote.
CITY ELECTIONS
BILLY KENNEDY and KATHRYN VARN
Alligator Staff Writers
Ed Braddy will serve as Gainesville’s new mayor 
after he defeated incumbent Craig Lowe in Tuesday’s 
runoff election.
Braddy, a former District 2 city commissioner, re-
ceived 7,258 votes — about 55 percent of the vote — while Lowe received 6,007 votes — about 45 percent.
The Supervisor of Elections’ Ofﬁ  ce reported a 16-
percent voter turnout, a 1-percent increase from the March 19 city election.
After all 35 precincts reported their results just after 
7:30 p.m., Braddy celebrated his victory with friends and supporters at The Warehouse restaurant on South 
Main Street.
Braddy said his campaign strategy helped set him 
apart from Lowe.
“We stayed relentlessly positive, and they got in-
creasingly negative,” he said. “And I think the voters 
kind of started to turn on that.”
Meanwhile, at Lowe’s campaign ofﬁ  ce at 315 SE 
Second Ave., Lowe emerged from a back room and thanked applauding supporters.
“The voters made their decisions,” he said, “and 
that is the beauty of democracy: that voters get to de-cide.”
He later issued a statement congratulating Brad-
dy.
“While we disagreed on many of the issues con-
fronting our city during this election,” he said, “I hope that we will maintain an open line of communication as he assumes his duties as Mayor and look forward Ed Braddy upsets Craig Lowe in mayoral runoff
SEE ELECTION, PAGE 4
◗ THE BUS MUST LEAVE TWO 
HOURS EARLIER NOW.
ALEXA VOLLAND
Alligator Writer
The UF Mobile Outreach Clinic has 
reduced its hours as a result of cutbacks 
in the UF College of Medicine.
As of April 1, the mobile clinic, a two-
room bus that delivers health care to 
the medically underserved in Alachua 
County, shortened its hours.
The shortened hours was news to Dr. 
Lewis Baxter, who learned about it upon arriving at the clinic March 18 to cover a shift.
Baxter said the bus driver told him 
the bus had to leave at 8 p.m. instead of the usual 10 p.m.
Baxter, a professor in the psychia-try and neuroscience departments, said with the clinic already at capacity, the reduced hours will mean less care for patients.
After hearing the decision came from 
the educational affairs ofﬁ  ce, Baxter re-quested the shortened hours take effect May 13 to avoid the risk of abandoning patients.
“What led to this cutback was the 
result of some mismanagement,” he said. “Funds went to some agencies not connected with the clinic that shouldn’t have. It wasn’t an attempt at diverting money or being evil, it was just misman-agement.”
Baxter corresponded with Associ-
ate Dean for Educational Affairs Joseph 
Fantone via email. Baxter does not be-
lieve the mismanagement of funds came Mobile clinic reduces hours
SEE CLINIC, PAGE 4COLLEEN WRIGHT
Alligator Writer
In the wake of the Boston Marathon trag-
edy, UF students will ﬁ  nish the race.
The UF Sikh Students Association and the 
Surat Fauj Running Club will sponsor a run 
in solidarity with the Boston Marathon run-
ners tonight.
Runners will meet on the Commuter Lot 
at 8:45 p.m. for the 1.2-mile run, which con-
tinues up Gale Lemerand Drive, right to Mu-seum Road, down Center Drive, across Mow-ry Road and back toward the Commuter Lot on Gale Lemerand Drive.
Neal Singh, president of the Sikh Students 
Association at UF, said a run in solidarity 
with the victims of the attack coincided with 
his efforts to raise awareness about Sikhism.
“We really just wanted to spread the mes-
sage that, as Americans, we should take a stand against senseless violence,” the 22-year-old UF psychology senior said.
There will be a candlelight vigil at the end of the run to remember the victims in Bos-ton.
Surat runs in solidarity with the Boston 
Marathon runners are also taking place in several cities including New York, Chicago and San Francisco.
Harshpreet Kaur Khurana’s cousins were 
half a mile away from the blasts in Boston. She said she wants to show support to the families affected.
“I’m running to show my support to the 
families, because I very easily could have been one of those injured,” the 18-year-old biochemistry sophomore said.
Contact Colleen Wright at cwright@alligator.
org.UF students to run for Boston
“I’m running to show my support 
to the families, because I very 
easily could have been one of those 
injured.”
Harshpreet Kaur Khurana
biochemistry sophomoreCAMPUS