« 
VOL UME 108 ISSU E 115 WW W.A LLIG ATO R.OR G FRIDA Y, M ARCH 14,2014 
UF Online director resigns three mon ths into job 
Her resignation was une xpected SEAN STEWART-MUNIZ 
Alligator Staff Writer sstewa rt-mun iz@all igator. org 
Only three month s into UF O nline's first 
semester, executive di rector Betty Phill ips re­
signed. 
In an administrative memo sent Tues day, 
provost Joseph Glov er wrote that associa te 
provost Andy McC ollou gh wi ll take o ver ad ­
ministrative duties for UF's fully onlin e de­gree program imm ediat ely. 
Phillips res igned Mar ch 1. 
Although the reaso n for Phillips' abrupt 
resignation was not explained, UF spok es­
woman Janine Sikes wrote in an email that 
Phillips will return to Arizo na S tate Unive r­
sity as a f aculty me mber. 
"Sin ce she wants to devote more time to 
research in this im portant are a of o nline edu ­i it Phillips 
2013. catio n, she decid ed to re­
sign her ad ministrative po­
sition in favo r of a faculty 
position that wil l allow h er 
to pursue these interests," 
Sikes said. 
Phillips was named as 
exec utive director for the 
program in September 
She left he r pos ition as pro vost and ex ecu­
tive vice p resident for ASU to lead UF's o n­line bac calau reate p rogram. 
She is marri ed to Win Phi llips, UF 's forme r 
senior vice p resident and chief operating of­
ficer, wh o step ped down i n Decem ber 2013. 
UF Onlin e launc hed Ja n. 1. 
There are 5 83 stude nts e nrolled in UF On­
line with a goal of 24,000 b y its 10th year of 
- operatio ns, ac cord ing to the program's busi­
ness plan. I n Febru ary, U F spokesman S teve 
Orla ndo said the university had accep ted 
three UF Onlin e stu dents. O ther applications 
were not y et com plete d. 
Gaines ville Gran dy's 
to be re placed by 
PDQ in the sum mer keep the doors open, but the 
recession hit the small busi­
ness hard. 
"If y ou d on't have a d ollar 
menu, you suffer," Mile s, 52 , 
said. "You can only discount 
so m uch." 
Miles said he had the op­
tion of renewing his lease 
a year and a half ago but 
didn't feel confident in the 
idea of resigning a long-term 
lease on a 30-year-old build­
ing that needs remodeling. 
Grandy's is a franchise, so 
there are locations in seven 
other states that will remain 
open. 
The Gainesville location 
SEE GRANDY'S, PAGE 4 KAITLYN WILSON Alligator C ontributing W riter 
A lot of things have 
changed in Gainesville over 
the past 29 years, but one 
thing has stayed the same: 
Grandy's, which has kept 
bellies full of fresh cinna­
mon rolls and country-fried 
steak. 
This summer, the "home-
style in a hurry" restaurant 
will clo se its doors. 
Dave Mile s, owner of the 
Grandy's located at 3401 W. 
University Ave., said the 
store's close com es as no sur­
prise. 
He said he wanted to Kristi Camara / Alligator 
Rockets Away 
Second and third graders from Idylwild Elementary School launch bottle rockets on Flavet Field on 
Thursday morning. The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics at UF assisted the students 
in building the rockets and launching them for the field trip. 
CAM PUS 
UF researchers to send plants to Int ernational Spa ce Sta tion JESSLY NWAD E 
Alligator Contributing W riter 
Two UF scientists will send off the 
SpaceX-3 Dragon capsule to the Interna­
tional Space Station on Sunday from the 
Kennedy Sp ace C enter. 
Robert Fer l and Anna-Lisa Paul, faculty 
members in the H orticultural Sci ences D e­
partment of th e Institute of Food a nd Agri­cultural Sciences, will monitor the capsule 
containing an experiment that they hope 
will aid them in understanding how plants 
function in space, according to a UF news 
release. 
They hope to learn zero gravity's im­
pact on cells by examining how Arabidop-
sis plants grow in space. 
"SpaceX-3 looks at the genes in the 
plants. It will look at the pattern of growth of th e plants and how they respond to t heir 
environment," Paul said. 
Paul, a research associate professor of 
plant molecular genetics, said the name of 
the experiment on Spac eX-3 is "CAR A^', 
which is an acronym for Characterizing 
Arabidopsis Root Attractions. 
Ferl and Paul conducted previous ex­
periments from 1999 to 2010 and learned 
that the r oots in space grew in specifi c pat­terns away from the shoots, called skew­
ing, according to the release. 
Paul said the scientists believed the 
skewing pattern required gravity. 
But in this space shuttle there was 
no gravity, so researchers are trying to 
find out the reasons behind this peculiar 
growth pattern. 
"We've tweaked some stuff, and we're 
SEE SPACE , PAGE 4 
Toda y 0 71/50 
FORECAST 2 CLASSIFIEDS 14 
OPINIONS 6 CROSSWORD 17 
SPO RTS 12 UF med scho ol jump s in nati onal rank 
It ran ked No. 7 5 for best prim ary care education, pg 1 0. 
Police: St Patty's ba rgoer s should arrange tran sport ation 
SNAP va ns will r un until 3 a.m., pg 1 1. lowering assistant fees 
They got a 4.4 percent pay raise last year, pg 1 0. 
w 
2, ALLIG ATOR "FRIDAY, M ARCH 1 4, 20 14 the independent florida 
News Today 
WHAT'S HAPP ENING 
Purchase a Hamantaschen gram 
for Purim 
Come purchase a sweet 
treat for your friends for 
Purim . They will be sold on 
Turlington Pl aza f rom no on to 
2 p.m today. Ham antasch en 
are cookies with thre e 
points to repr esen t the evil 
Haman's hat. To part icipa te 
in the custom, send a friend 
a Ham antasch en Gram, and 
the c ookie will be delivered to 
him or her on c ampus. Ord ers 
can a lso b e pla ced at Melissa@ 
ufhillel.org. 
Organic plant sale 
The Organic Sust aina ble 
Agricult ure Club is having 
a tran splan t sale in front of 
Fifie ld Hall today at 3 p.m. 
Tom atoes, kale and tomatil-
los will be among the plants 
sold. Pric es range from $2 to 
$5 per plan t, depending on 
size. Fifie ld is located east of 
Southwest Recre ation Center 
on H ull Road. 
Continuum 5K 
Join the Pledge 5 Foundation 
at the 5th Ann ual 5K-9 event 
at the C ontinuum on Sa turd ay 
from 7 a.m. until noon . Bring 
along your K-9 and enjoy 
a furi- filled day of exercise, 
food and prizes. Admission 
includes ent ry in to the 5K race 
and/or the one-mile pup rim, 
5K-9 T-sh irt, com plim enta ry 
gift bag for you and your pet 
and post race food provided 
by Texas Roa dhouse. Pledge 
to donate pet supplies and 
receive a coupon code for $5 
off regis trati on. Plea se bring 
pet donations to the regis tra­
tion table t he d ay of the ev ent. 
Admission for the race is $35 
and can be purchased online 
at tc5k92013.eventbrite.com /. 
Lakeland march for 
farmworkers 
Join CHI SPA S UF, 
Gainesville's Inter faith 
Alliance fo r Imm igran t Justice 
and local a ctivists, to pr essu re 
Wendy's and Publix to join 
the Cam paign for Fair Food 
to raise wages and guaran­
tee human rights for Flori da 
farm work ers. The march will 
take place in Lake land on 
Satu rday . If you would like 
to carpool, meet at the Gale 
Leme rand park ing gara ge on 
campus at 9:30 a.m . For m ore 
informa tion, call - 831-334-
0117. 
QR code scavenger hunt 
The So ciety of Asian Sc ientists 
and Engineers at UF chal­
lenges you to com pete in our 
bi-annual Quic kRac e, a team -
based scavenger hunt chas­
ing a trail of QR codes across 
the UF cam pus. This semes-
- ter's theme is The World of 
Gam ing. The top three teams 
will receive prizes. The event 
will be h eld in th e Reitz Union 
Satu rday fr om 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Register at bit .ly/ljwOrtl. 
Florida M useum hosts 'C an Y ou 
Dig It?' 
Dig into geology and d iscover FORECAST 
TODA Y SAT URD AY 
0 SUNNY 
71/50 0 SUNNY 
76/56 SUN DAY 
THUNDER­
STORMS 
75/63 MONDAY 
THU NDER­
STORMS 
69/54 TUES DAY 
PARTL Y 
CLOU DY 
70/51 
the ground beneath your 
feet at the Flori da Museum 
of Natural History's "Ca n 
You Dig It?" eve nt Saturday 
from 10 a.m . to 3 p.m. Enjoy 
hands-on activities, and 
watch dem onstrations of 
volcanic erup tions. For mo re 
informa tion, visit flmnh.ufl. 
edu/canyoudigit or ca ll 352-
273-20 62. 
Free concussion tests 
Athlete Brain w ill offer free 
baseline concussion tests 
at Healt hStre et, 2401 SW 
Arche r Road , Satu rday fro m 
noon to 3 p.m. Trained UF 
students will administer the 
tests, which provide infor­
mation on how an individu-
. al no rma lly p erform s on the 
areas typically impacted by 
a concussion, su ch as symp­
toms, balan ce and memory. 
Parti cipan ts will receive a 
copy of their test results to 
shar e with healthcare pro­
viders to help them maxi­
mize th eir clin ical ca re in the 
event of a concussion. This 
service is especially valu­
able for a thletes of all ages. 
Music in the park 
Music in the Park is Satur day 
at noon at Lake Wauburg's 
North Park. The afternoon 
will be filled with live mu­
sical perfor man ces b y a jazz 
band an d a ste el drum ba nd. 
Drop in at any ti me th rough­
out the day. No registration 
requ ired! Admission and 
activities are free with a 
Gato r 1 Card; cardholders 
may bri ng u p to fo ur g uests. 
For more inform ation, visit 
recsports.ufl.ed u. 
Annual Conservation 
Stewards aw ards 
Each year , Alachua 
Con serv ation Trust honors 
individuals in our com mu­
nity who h ave m ade cult ural 
and environmental protec­
tion a priori ty in their lives. 
This year 's recipients are 
the late Jack R ogers, Rober t 
Christia nson and Cha rlie 
Hou der. The festivities at 
Prairie Creek L odge, 72 04 SE 
County Road 234, kickoff at 
5:30 p.m. on Saturday with 
a cock tail hour, followed 
by a local foods dinner and 
the awa rds ceremony. The 
evening will wrap up with 
a live performa nce by Hard 
Luck Society. Tickets are 
$70. 
Henna tattoo fundraiser 
Help the HSF Scho lar 
Chap ter raise funds for 
Rela y for Life by getting 
henna tattoo s! We will be 
doing $2 and $4 designs. 
Guys are welcome to com e, 
too. The event will be at La 
Casita (next to Chipotle on University) on Monday from 
5:30 to 8:30 p. m. 
Beginner Ta ngo Class 
A beginner tango class will 
be held Monday at 7:45 p.m. 
at the St udent Recre ation and 
Fitn ess Cen ter. N o exp erience, 
partne r or sh oes req uired. For 
more inform ation, visit face-
book.com/groups / uftang o. 
Accent Speaker's Bureau hosts 
Buzzfeed creator Jonah 
Pere tti 
Join A ccent Speaker's Bureau 
on March 20 at the Phillips 
Cente r for the Perfo rmin g 
Arts for an evening of en-
trep reneurship , insight and 
insp iration with one of the 
leading media innovators of 
the 21st century. Perett i will 
discuss jo urnalism, the evolv­
ing media landscape and his 
career followed by an open 
Q-and-A with the audience. 
Free student tickets will be 
available for pickup at the 
Phillips Cen ter Box Office on 
Wednesday a t noon. Stu dents 
with a valid Gator 1 Card 
can receive up to two tickets. 
Doors open at 7 p.m. and the 
prog ram begins at 8 p.m. For 
mor e inform ation, visit face-
book.com/accentufl. 
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space ? 
Send an email with "What's 
Happening" in the subject 
line to kgrif fis@ alliga tor.o rg. 
To ensure publication in the 
next day's newspaper, plea se 
submit the event befor e 5 
p.m. Please model your sub­
missions after above events 
and keep them 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly form atted 
"Wha t's H appening" sub mis­
sions may not appear in the 
pape r. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper. 
Have an event planned? 
Add it to the Alligator's 
online calendar: 
alligator, org!calendar 
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news 
reports and editorials.. 
If you find an error, please call 
our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. alligator VOLUME 108 ISSUE 115 «. S ISSN 088 9-2423 
Not officially associated with the University of Florida 
Published by Ca mpus C ommunications Inc., of Gainesville, Florida 
NEWSROOM 
352-3764458 (Voice), 352-3764467 (Fax) 
Editor 
Managing Edito r / Print 
Managing Ed itor / Onli ne 
Univer sity Ed itor 
Metro'Editor 
Freelance Editor 
Opinions Edito r 
Blog s Edito r 
Sports Editor 
Assistant Sports Edito r 
alligatorSports.org Editor 
Editor ial Board 
Photo Editor 
the Avenue Editor 
Copy Desk Chiefs 
Copy Ed itors 
Online S taff Julia Glum, jglum@alligator.org 
Kelcee Griffis, kgriffis@alligator.org 
Katherine Kaller gis, 
kkallergis@alligator.org 
Alex Ha rris, aharris@alligator.org 
Kathryn Vam, kvam@ alligator.org 
Shayna Posses, 
sposses@alligator.org 
Chloe Finch, cfinch@ alligator.org 
Keil ani Rodriguez, 
krodriguez@alligator.org 
Adam Lichtenstein, 
alichtenstein@alligator.org 
Landon Watnick, 
lwatnick@alligator.org 
Jonathan Czupryn, 
jczupryn@alligator.org 
Chloe Finch, J ulia Glum, 
Kelcee Grif fis, K atherine Kallergis 
Willia m England, 
wengland@alligator.org 
Alexa Volla nd, avolland@alligator.org 
Eleni Kouvatsos, Kris tan Wiggins 
Jaclyn De Bonis, Emily Car dinali, 
Cara Chiaramonte, Melissa Figueroa, 
Steven Katona, Kristi n Letsch, 
Sarah Loftus, Haley Neer, M arisa Ross 
Rachel Crosby , TonySadiku 
DISP LAY ADVERTI SING 
352-3764482,800-2574341, 352-376-4556 (Fax ) 
Adv ertising Direc tor Shaun O'Connor, 
Office Manager 
Displ ay Ad vertising Cle rks 
Intern Coordinator 
Sales Representatives s oconnor@alligator.org 
Ashley Ala yon, 
advertising@alligator. org 
Samantha Aponte, Danielle Lawrence, 
Blair Sm ith 
Alysia Mowry 
William Campbell, Jacob Clauson, 
Andrew Hernandez, Lori Kaplan, 
Kacie Kemp, Kelvin Medina, 
Alysia Mowry, Kr istin Mumma 
CLASSIFIE D ADVE RTISING 
352-373-FIND (Voice), 3 52-3763015 (Fax) 
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org 
BUSINE SS 
352-3764446 (V oice), 3 52-3764556 (Fax) 
Com ptroller Delia K rado lfer, 
Bookkeeper 
Accounting Clerk dkradolfer@ alligator.org 
Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org 
Matthew Kearney 
ADMI NISTR ATIO N 
352-3764446 (V oice), 3 52-3764556 (Fax) 
General Manager Patricia Carey , tcarey@alligator.org 
Assistant Ge neral Manager Shaun O'Connor 
soconnor@alligator.org 
Administrative Manager Blake Butterfield, 
bbutterHeld@alligator.org 
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGow an, 
Imcgowan @allig ator. org 
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org 
SYSTEMS 
Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart 
PRODUCTION 
Production Manager 
Assistant Production Manager 
Advertising P roduction Staff 
Editorial Production Staff Natalie Te er, nteer@ alligator.org 
Evan Walker, ewalker@ alligator.org 
Richard Bales, Johan Bueno, 
Fabiola Lara 
Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz, 
Aub rey S tolzenberg 
The Independent Florida Alligator is a student newspaper serving the Univ ersity of Florida, pub­
lished by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The A lligator is published Monday through Friday morn­
ings, except during ho lidays and exam periods. Du ring UF su mmer academic terms The Alligator is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of A merica, National Newspaper Associa­
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern Univers ity Newspapers. 
Subscription Rate: Full Yea r (All Se mesters) $100 
The Alligator offices are located at 1105 W. U nive rsity Ave. Classified advertising can be placed 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday th rough Friday , except fo r holidays. Classifieds aiso i 
be placed at the UF B ookstore. © Copy right 2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator 
may be reproduced in any means without the written consent of an officer o f Campus Communica­
tions Inc. 
FRIDAY, M ARC H 14,2 014 • ALLIGAT OR, 3 
GOVERNMENT 
2014 THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT HOUSING AFFAIRS CABINET PRESENTS 
THE SPRING HOUSING FAIR FRIDAY, MARCH 14TH 
10AM-1PM AT THE REITZ UNION 
The Spring 2014 Housing Fair is this Friday, March 14th 
at the Reitz Union Breeze way and Morthwest Walkway. Ihe fair 
is designed to educate and inform students about the different 
housing opportunities and amenities our Gainesville apartments 
and living complexes have to offer. In addition, there will be lots 
of great giveaways and complimentary food and refreshments. 
See you out there! Find more info at http://sg.ufl.edu! 
grove 
aptyim snB to 
gainesviller alligator 
GAINESVILLE APARTMENT AND CONDO GUIDE CANOPY APARTMENTS RENTCfflflFY.COM 
it ^ £ V 3 '• I ) : 1 i i $ >c> P / 1 I < I 
4, ALLIGATOR • FRID AY, M ARCH 14, 2014 
CAM PUS 
'Bigalow' movie 
star com ing to 
IRHA event MEGAN KELLY Alligator Contributing W riter 
The "Richmeister" is c oming to campus. 
Rob Sc hneider, the sta r of movies s uch as "The Ani­
mal," "Hot Ch ick" and "Deuce Biaglow M ale Gigalo," 
will be a t UF o n March 27 as p art of th e Inter-Residence 
Hall Association's annual Residence H all Week. 
The event, ERHA Palo oza: a Night of Comedy, will 
be at the Curtis M. Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts. D oors open at 6:30 p .m. 
IRH A worked with a third party that was in con­
tact with celebrity agents to determine who to pick, 
said Rachel Stern, IRHA vice president. 
"We went back and forth with the different op­
tions and who we thought w ould appeal to the college 
audience the most," said the 22-year-old UF telecom­
munication senior who is overseeing Residence Hall 
Week. 
"It was unanimous Rob Schneider would be the 
best bet," Stem said. 
IRHA will pay Schneider $30,00 0 for his appear­
ance. 
Tickets are free for both students and the public. 
Ticket pick-up for UF students will be at the Phil-
Hps C enter March 26 at noon, and tickets for the gen­
eral pubHc w ill be given o ut one hour before the show 
begins. 
There is a limit of two tickets per student. 
Johnny Efstathiades, a 20-year-old UF apphed 
physiology and kinesiology junior, will be attending 
the event with a group of fr iends from an improv and 
sketch comedy club, Theatre Strike Force. 
"I'm excited, especially as part of an improv club, 
to sh ow people that comedy is fu n and within people's 
reach if they want to try it out," Efstathiades said. 
The theme of this Residence Hall Week is Cirque 
Du IRHA. 
Residence Hall Week consists of seven events rais­
ing money for IRHA's philanthropy/ Jungle Friends. 
In line with the theme of the week, there wiH b e an 
IRH A Carnival with a ride, games and food. 
Caylin Lewandowski, 18-year-old UF speech pa­
thology freshman, said she will attend because she is a 
fan of the movies Schneider has been in. 
"I find him hysterical, and I'm so impressed with 
UF f or having him at our school," Lewandowski said. Scientist s will study the plants as they grow 
SPACE , from page 1 
hoping it will give us some feedback on what plants use 
in their environment in the spaceflight in order to sur­
vive," Paul said. 
Paul said the CARA experiment will be studied in 
two ways: with high-resolution images sent from the 
Light Microscopy Module and by studying the plants 
after they come back next month. 
Kevin Lopez, a 21-year-old UF a erospace engineering 
junior, said this experiment could have further implica­
tions for plant research. 
"There are a lot of things that can be gained from try­
ing to grow plants with no gravity," Lopez said. "You 
can compare the differences on how life forms grow on 
Earth compared to zero gravity." Lopez said that if the experiment is successful, he be­
lieves there is a possibiHty that humans can grow life i n 
space. 
"You have, to start at the bottom in order to make 
progress in understanding space and zero gravity," Lo­
pez said. 
According to the release, the Center for the Advance­
ment of Science in Space, which is a national organiza­
tion based in Florida that encourages science on the ISS, 
is sponsoring the experiment. 
Paul said this experimental can benefit everyone in 
the UF community. 
"This is important for everyone because it's impor­
tant to know how plants work," Paul said. "The more 
we understand the fundamentals the better local gar­
deners and space partners we can become." 
A specific closing date has not been set 
GRAN DY'S , from page 1 
will be replaced by People Dedicat­
ed to Quality, known as PDQ, which 
is backed by former Gators quarter­
back Tim Tebow. It's a chicken res­
taurant. 
Miles said PDQ has been "more 
than gracious" and has promised him that employees of Grandy's will 
get priority interviews for the new 
restaurant. 
Miles said he's mainly concerned 
for his employees when Grandy's 
closes. 
Although he used to hire a lot of. 
UF students, he said, he began tak­
ing on more middle-aged workers 
when the economy declined. 
Kat Antunes / Alligator 
Grand y's fr anchise own er Dave Miles stan ds in front his restaurant on the 
corn er of W est Uni versity Avenu e and Southwest 3 4th Street on Thur sday . 
Register Now at 5K-9. org 
ICC N TINUUM 
5K-9 A 5K and 1 mile run/walk for you and y our dog! 
Pledge 5 Foundation's Pet Supply 
and Adoption Drive benefits: 
• Gainesville Pet Rescue 
• Alachua County Humane Society 
• St Fr ancis Pet Care 
Registration begins a t 7:00 a .m. at 
Bo Did diey Community P lata. 
Pet supply donations o aepttdat the registration table on rate da y. JUNGLE FR IENDS PRIM ATE 
SANCTUARY NEED S 
VOLUNTEEI 
On-§ite or from fFJcra te! 
Open Volunteer *Day 
'Every Satu rday in G ainesville 
10:00am - 2:00 pm 
jung 2efriends.org /opp ortun ities. shtm l 
info@junglefHend s.org 
386-462-7779 $100 I FEELING • .... • -Some locals are sad to see the 
establishment close, Hke John Cas-
tronover, a long-time Gainesville 
resident and a Grandy's regular. 
"I am an old country fella, and 
it's one of the few places I can get 
chicken livers, gizzards and turnip 
greens," the 69-year-old said. "I am 
gonna miss that." 
Castronover, who graduated 
from Gainesville High School and 
UF, said he was surprised to hear 
the restaurant was closing. 
He said every time he and his 
wife, Kathy, ate there, it seemed to 
be busy. 
The restaurant, which Miles 
opened only two years after he grad­
uated from UF, will close before the 
lease ends in August, although he 
does not have a specific date. 
He said he's not sure what he will 
do next because he has been his own 
boss for the past three decades. 
He said he's sad to see his busi­
ness end. 
But he is thankful for the loyalty 
from the community. 
"I have been overwhelmed by 
the support over the last few days 
as word has gotten out," Miles said. 
"Gainesville has been very good to 
me and my family." 
.#v Ml 
PER NIGH T 
GUARANTEED 
You love making moola? 
Gator Domino's is hiring 
closing drivers at the 
SW 13th St. location 
APPLY ONLINE 
WWW.GATORDOMINOS.COM 
Must have a good car. 2 tickets or less in the 
last 3 years. Must pass a background check. 
Cash paid daily. Include tips, mileage, and 
wage Must work a closing shift of 8 hours or 
more to meet the $100+ guarantee.. 352-294-CARE(2273) umatter(a ufl.edu 
WHAT WE DO 
Being a Gator means caring about the Gator Nation! If yo u or a 
fellow Gator is in distress, contact U Matter. We Car e in ca se of a n 
emergency, contact the University of Flori da Poiice Departm ent 
at 352-392 -1111. Matter 
FRIDA Y, M ARCH 14,2014 • ALLIGATOR, 5 
FIRST LOOK: 
The ideas behind the new 
UF branding campaign. Be among the first to learn about the strategic thinking and creativity that led to UF's bold new brand. 
YOU'RE INVITED TO A 
TOWN HALL MEETING MARC H 20 
4:00 PM 
Squitieri Studio Theatre, located in the West Wing of the 
Phillips Center for Performing Arts, 3201 Hull Road. 
Presented by iSoovergo, UF's branding agency. 
Seating limited to the first 200 respondents. 
BY RSV P ONLY: BRAND ING@U FL.EDU 
Join yo ur colleagues. Sh are your thoughts. Ask your questions. 
This is your campaign. 
I UNIVERSITY of WWWm UNIVERSITY of 
UF FL ORIDA CAM PUS 
Student org 
to give free 
concuss ion 
tests CHRISTI WE ALVAREZ Alligator Contributing Writer 
Student and amateur athletes 
alike can take steps to protect their 
brains Sat urday. 
Athlete Brain will be adm inister­
ing free baseline concussion tests 
from noon to 3 p.m at HealthStreet, 
located at 2401 SW Ar cher Ro ad. 
The stu dent-run org anization, af­
filiated with the UF Col lege of Publi c 
Health a nd Health Pro fessions, aim s 
to promote concussion education 
and outreach, said Aliyah Snyder, a 
28-y ear-o ld UF doctoral student in 
the clinic al and health psychology 
department of the colle ge and tire 
graduate adviser of the organiza­
tion. 
"We try to educate athletes 
at all le vels and parents, just 
anyone, about how common 
concussions are." 
Cary Gibbons 
vice p resident of Athle te Br ain 
The tes t, kno wn a s the Spo rt Con ­
cussion As sessmen t Tool , or SCAT3, 
colle cts information about how an 
individual performs on the te st. Thi s 
helps health professionals make 
treatment decisions if a concussion 
is suspected in the future and pro­
vides a concrete way for doctors to 
monitor someone's pro gress. 
"It doesn't take very long, it's re­
ally valuable, and it may help you 
kind of reduce yo ur risk in the long 
term of your negative con sequences 
after a c oncussion," sh e said . 
Athlete Brain is the only group 
that has released research on the 
baseline concussion test, providing 
national norms for t he previous ver­
sion, which makes fire gr oup highly 
involved in the development of the 
test, Sny der said. 
Cary Gibbons, a 20-y ear-o ld UF 
applied physiology and kinesiolo gy 
junior an d the vic e pre sident of A th­
lete Brain, is o ne of the UF stu dents 
who has been cleared to administer 
the test. 
Gibbons, who is also on the UF 
Women's Rugby team, said these 
tests are a convenience because 
they're not usually offer ed when 
you get a normal physical. 
"We try to ed ucate athletes a t all 
levels and parents — just anyone 
— about how com mon concussions 
are," she sai d. 
Solomon Patton, former UF 
football wide receiver and kickoff 
returner, is co nditioning for the Na­
tional Foot ball League and prepar­
ing for the draft. He said that some 
of his teammates have had concus­
sions in the past, and they would 
have to miss practice when they 
were se vere. 
"So many people get brain dam­
age and people could die," Patton 
said. "They re ally d on't play w hen it 
comes to a co ncussion — they t ake it 
real seri ous." 
mions FRIDAY, MAR CH 14,2014 
WW W.A LLIGAT OR.O RG/O PINI ONS 
Editorial 
Despite a freak cold snap last night, this weekend is 
shaping up to look like Spring Break: Part Deux — or at 
least, that's what we're telling ourselves. 
We're in the home stretch, guys. The finish line is in 
sight for seniors, and all the freshman have parted ways 
with their campus maps and lanyards — f inally. That being 
said, here it is: your is-it-St.-Patrick's-Day-yet edition of 
Darts & La urels This week, Gainesville City Commission elections cul­
minated in the incumbent Todd Chase's victory in District 
2, Craig C arter's win over incumbent Susan Bottcher and a 
runoff election scheduled in April for At-Large Seat 2 can­
didates Annie Orlando and Helen K. W arren. 
We were surprised when, on election day, copies of the 
Gainesville Sun arrived with stickers promoting certain 
political candidates. Although political advertising and 
sticker ads aren't new, these particular advertisements 
could have easily been misconstrued as the paper's en­
dorsements of those candidates. When the line between 
editorial content and political advertisement is blurred, 
problems arise — putting ads on the front page that look 
like endorsements is misleading to readers, and for that, 
we're throwing a DART at the Gainesville Sun. 
Remember when news broke that Subway used the 
same chemicals in its bread used to make shoe soles and 
yoga mats more elastic? As if you needed more of an ex­
cuse to shy away from their questionable lunch meats and 
overrated sweet chilli sauce. 
However, Subway announced late last month that it 
would quit using the gross compound azodicarbonamide. 
The changes are slated to hit UF s oon, and for that we give 
a begrudging OK-those-meatball-subs-aren't-so-bad LAU­
REL to Subway headquarters. 
In other sandwich-related news, Gainesville lunch 
lovers were disappointed to learn this week that the last 
Quiznos location in GNV is shuttering its doors for good 
on Saturday. The owner, Lance O'Carroll, told the Alliga­
tor that he planned to retire after realizing sales had been 
gradually declining. 
Are you serious?! If Subway, Jimmy John's and Quiz­
nos were the original members of TLC , Quiznos would be 
Left Eye — a s tunning talent met by an untimely and tragic 
death. In light of this unfortunate news, we're throwing 
a DART at Gainesville sandwich consumers who don't 
know a good sub when they see one. 
And, finally, your feel-good news of the week: We want 
to award our final LAU REL to Gainesville Harley David­
son and local law enforcement for helping Marc Okes, a 
local 8-year-old boy with a cancerous brain tumor, achieve 
his dream of riding a motorcycle. Marc rode sidecar to 
Gainesville Harley Davidson owner Kevin Lytle's motor­
cycle alongside a crowd of Gainesville motorcycle owners. 
"It was my favorite day because I never done that in 
my whole entire life," Marc told the Alligator. Well said, 
dude. 
See you on Monday! 
Reader response 
Today' s qu estion: Have you ever eaten at Grandy's? 
Thursday's ques tion: Have you see n 71% YES 
"Ora nge is the New Black?" 29% HQ 
69 TOTA L VOTE S 
Vote or post a message at www. alliga tor.or g 
p,,,m Kelcee Griffis 
EDITOR Katherine Kallergis Chloe Finch 
. MANAG ING EDITORS OPINION S EDITOR 
• farffpraJrat nwU a • 
alligator IF BARACK WERE PREZ IN '39 
A LOT 
obanw 
Column 
Obama's 'Ferns' visit clever, controversial 
Last week, the president went to a fake talk show for 
what may be the most bizarre head-of-state inter­
view ever. 
The show is called "Between Two Ferns" and is hosted 
by comedian Zach Galifianakis, star of the "Hangover" 
movies. 
It's a cringe-humor show hosted by the site 
FunnyOrDie.com. As host, Galifianakis plays a character 
who's dumb and very awkward. All of his guests are 
celebrities. W hen they get to the show, he openly mocks 
them in ways that are both hilarious and incredibly 
uncomfortable. He's downright rude to his guests — 
he said to Justin Bieber, "You've had three hairstyles; 
what's next for your career?" and then hit him with a 
belt. "B etween Two Ferns" is sem i-improvised though, so 
guests have plenty of opportunities to fight back. They 
usually call Galifianakis fat, with varying degrees of 
success. 
It was kind of a shock when news broke that Barack 
Obama made an appearance on the show. 
Seeing the president of the United States sitting with 
Zach G alifianakis was just as surreal as I thought it might 
be, and the verbal sparring that ensued was tremendous. 
Galifianakis asked him what it's like to be the "last black 
president," and Obama called him out, saying Bradley 
Cooper carried "The Hangover" movies. And then the 
plug happened: Galifianakis asked the president what 
websites he likes to go to, and Obama took the opportu­
nity to talk about healthcare.gov. 
It's a pretty successful plug; in spite of Galifianakis' 
joking, the president was able to provide a lot of informa­
tion on the many ways to sign up for insurance under the 
Affordable Care Act. 
The president said to G alifianakis' face t hat he wouldn't 
be on the show if he didn't want to plug health care. 
Actually, the whole show was set up as an advertise­
ment for the Affordable C are Ac t: "B etween Two Ferns'" 
producer contacted the White House months ago for an Alec Carver opinions@alligator.org opportunity to " help publicity. 
The deadline to sign up for 2014 
— March 31 — is rapidly ap­
proaching, and numbers of sign­
ers are faltering. 
The show is something that 
could only exist because of the 
18- to 30-year-old male demo­
graphic, which goes nuts over 
alternative comedy like this. 
Conveniently, the Affordable Care Act targets young 
people in this demographic because they are one of the 
most commonly uninsured groups in America. 
Whether the president brought shame to the office by 
appearing on "Between Tw o Ferns" is debatable; there is 
no solid "it-is" or "it-isn't" answer. What is true is that 
going on that show was a great way to get more publicity 
for the Affordable Care Act. The mere fact that he went 
on the show guarantees the episode will be viral, solely 
because of the novelty. Ad d the fact that the show's audi­
ence is also one of the Affordable Care Act's target de­
mographics, and what you have is a sneaky and brilliant 
marketing ploy. 
Politicians and pundits alike have criticized the ploy. 
Bill O'Reilly took the position that Abraham Lincoln 
would not have done it, and he's probably right. But 
Abraham Lincoln probably w ouldn't have blown up little 
kids in Yemen with sky robots either. 
The show itself has also been criticized. Many people 
feel that using "Between Two Ferns" to promote govern­
ment interests is a misuse of comedy. Comedy should be 
used to criticize and satirize authority, not advertise it. . 
That said, the number of u ninsured Americans our age 
is pretty high. Regardless of your views on Obamacare 
or the ethics of humor, health insurance is a necessity in 
America. 
Alec Carver is a UF journalism freshman. His columns 
appea r on Fridays. 
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of th e Alligato r. 
will be with held if th e Jhjp h 60 S. r°m r ers" Letters t0 the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). The y m ust be typed, double-spaced and must include the author's name, classification and phone number. Names 
r s ows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@ alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. Uni versi ty Av e., o r send them to P.O. Box 14 257, Gainesville, FL 32 604-2257. 
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Q uestions? Call 3 52-376-4458. 
FRIDA Y, M ARCH 1 4,2014 • A LLIGATOR, 7 
Column 
Hey, Bill O'Reilly, you can sit down now * ,1m i-< < »>*• (-» « 4l1 /V TiTrtfl/r 
When Russell Simmons appeared 
on Fox News' "The O'Reilly Fac­
tor" Monday night to promote his 
new book about meditation, he probably 
had no idea his interview with Bill O 'Reilly 
would focus on Beyonce. 
After introducing Simmons' book incor­
rectly, O'Reilly didn't even give the Def 
Jam Records co-founder 30 seconds to talk 
about his work before he started question­
ing him about Beyonce's artistic choices. 
First of all, how rude. I don't understand why 
O'Reilly would think Simmons should answer for Be­
yonce just because he's a black businessman involved 
in the musical community. 
Regardless, the political pundit was bold in saying, 
"Beyonce in the back of a limo having sex, referencing 
Monica Lewinski. That's art?" 
O'Reilly was talking about "Partition," a song in 
which B eyonce, a grown-ass, m arried woman, celebrates 
being a feminist and enjoying sex with her husband. 
Now, b efore I g o into defending-my-BFF mode — b e­
cause although we've never met, I do look at Beyonce 
as my super cool and talented best friend — I will say 
that I don't think O'Reilly was trying to be as offensive 
as he came off when he implied that "Partition" falls 
under the category of "exploitative garbage." 
He was arguing that artists have an obligation to 
protect impressionable children who lack parental 
guidance. 
And while I do agree that we should collectively 
care about the well-being of of our country's youth, a 
more effective approach would be to advocate for com­
prehensive sex education in all United States cities. Be­
cause that would actually provide kids who don't have 
"an amazing mother and an OK father" with an under­
standing of how unwanted pregnancy and broken fami­
lies can affect lives — at least more successfully than 
dismissing an artist's work as garbage. 
Disagreeing with the self-interpreted message of 
a song doesn't make it any less valid. Last I checked, 
art is "the expression or application of human creative 
skill and imagination, typically in a visual form such 
Gues t colum n Marjorie Nunez opinions@ alligator.org as painting or sculpture, producing works 
to be appreciated primarily for their beauty 
or emotional power." It's also "the various 
branches of creative activity, such as paint­
ing, music, literature, and dance." 
Beyonce do es a hell of a job d oing her job. 
She's an artist in every sense of the word, 
and she's a positive female role model in 
the industry who shows women we can be 
successful even when the odds are stacked 
against us. 
Not only does her latest album promote the femi­
nist movement, but it teaches a few lessons, including 
that, "you could actually work super hard, give every­
thing you have and still lose." and "Enjoy your life, it's 
short." 
Clearly, O'Reilly didn't listen to the rest of the album, 
because in his statements Monday night, he affirms one 
of the topics addressed in Beyonce's "Flawless." She in­
cludes an excerpt from a Ted Talk by Nigerian author 
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, in which she said, "We 
teach girls that they cannot be sexual beings in the way 
that boys can." 
Which brings me to question O'Reilly, whose favor­
ite artists as listed on his site include Luther Vandross, 
The Doors, The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, Elvis Pres-
7ley and Frank Sinatra, among others. All of these art­
ists, whom I, too, enjoy, have created works glorifying 
sex. Is it OK that they address sex in their work because 
they're male? 
Although none of these artists are new to the media, 
they have and will continue to influence youth in our 
country and around the world. So before we point the 
finger at Beyonce, let's look at the media as a whole. 
Regardless of your hard work, talent and whatever 
else you have going for you, haters gonna hate. And 
Monday night, on Fox News' "The O'Reilly Factor" host 
Bill O 'Reilly was being a total hater. 
As Kanye West would say: Yo, Bill, "I'm really hap­
py for you. I'mma let you finish, but Beyonce h ad one of 
the greatest videos of all time." 
Marjorie Nunez is a UF journalism senior. Her columns 
appear on Fridays. 
Alligator's SG elections endorsement 
editorial was contradictory 
The Student Government elec­
tions three' weeks ago were 
the most lopsided election I'v e 
ever witnessed as an undergraduate 
student. A single party won all 50 
seats while minority opposition had 
an internal breakdown. But the elec­
tion's absurdity was exceeded by 
that of the Alligator's endorsement 
letter of Feb. 1 8. 
The editorial endorsed the execu­
tive ticket of Swamp Party and, in 
the same letter, endorsed the Sen­
ate candidates from the opposing 
parties. Instead of helping students 
overcome the cynical nature of stu­
dent politics, the Alligator added to 
the confusion. 
Let's analyze the endorsement 
letter from the beginning. In the first 
paragraph the editorial states, "We 
have serious reservations about en­
couraging the growth of a one-party 
system — especially when that one 
party has a history of corruption." 
And yet despite all the Alligator 
published in the weeks leading up 
to the elections lamenting about the 
monopoly of Swamp Party — and Umair Asghar 
Speaking Out 
its past iterations — an d that party's 
history of corruption, the Alliga­
tor's "reservations" didn't seem to 
be "serious" enough when it came 
to facilitating to the strengthening 
of the one-party system. 
Can you denounce one-party 
rule and the corruption that exists 
in that one party that rules, and 
then endorse that party you just 
accused of corruption and unfair 
domination for the highest offices of 
SG? Sure you can. But was it sane? 
Hell no. And yet the Alligator had 
the gall to state later in the article, 
"The state of SG is disheartening. 
It's overwhelmingly run by Swamp, 
and the only way to start fixing that 
is to make Student Senate more di­
verse. For that reason, the Alligator 
also endorses all of t he S tudents and 
Taco Libre candidates for Senate." 
Has a more bizarre editorial ap­
peared in the pages of this distin­
guished newspaper? The wisest decision would've 
been to endorse no party at all. It's 
incomprehensible as to why the Al­
ligator would endorse a party's ex­
ecutive ticket with the idea that its 
"members are qualified." My dear 
editorial board, have you thought of 
why Swamp's candidates are more 
"qualified"? Has it crossed your 
mind that it's because of their sin­
gular domination of campus politics 
and their nepotism which prevents 
other students from joining SG and 
eventually becoming "qualified"? 
Endorsing executive office candi­
dates running unopposed appears 
meaningless to me. Of course the 
Alligator can be against one-party 
rule while also endorsing that same 
party. The Alligator can do what­
ever it wants. But it's not a question 
of "can or cannot." It's a matter of 
whether the Alligator can live up its 
name of being "independent" — no t 
swayed by the tides of absurdity 
that our campus politics appears to 
be drowning in. 
Umair Asghar is a former C ollege of 
Engineering SG senator. Joseph Casper 
UWire Students recall 
Harold Ramis 
We recently lost Harold Ramis, one of the most 
talented comedic writers and influential sati­
rists in Hollywood. Since 2010, he battled 
complications from autoimmune inflammatory vas­
culitis, a disease in which the immune system attacks 
blood vessels and swells them. On Feb. 24 , Harold lost 
that battle. H e was 69 y ears old. 
Ramis was a triple threat: 
writer, actor and director. He 
wore all three hats at different 
times but sometimes performed 
double duty, acting in movies 
he helped write and usually showing up in movies he 
directed and wrote. No m atter what role he had in fil m­
making, he alw ays strived for the same goal: to ma ke us 
smile and to root for the u nderdog. 
Ramis directed many comedies in the '80s and 
'90s that are now considered classics. "Caddyshack," 
the original "National Lampoon's Vacation," and 
"Groundhog Day," just to name a few. Ho wever, it wa s 
his work as a writer that often left a lasting im pression, 
and it wasn't just hilarious dialogue that's repeatedly 
quoted. 
Ramis had audiences pulling for protagonists that 
have everything working against them: lovable losers 
and misfits that are told they'll never amount to any­
thing but in the end pull through, overcoming often 
ridiculous scenarios and situations to succeed. 
Before going int o business fo r themselves, the Gh ost-
busters are kicked out of their university positions. 
Even though their peers see them as poor scientists, 
they ignore the ridicule and end up saving New York 
from the wrath of a 1 00-foot-tall marshmallow man. 
Even Clark Gr iswold in "National Lampoon's Vaca ­
tion" just w ants to inn ocently deliver some summer fu n 
to his family by visiting a theme park bu t ends up go ing 
through hell driving them across the country. All the 
audience wants to se e is C lark succeed in that quest. 
As an actor, what made Ramis' characters so like­
able w as his propensity for dry wit. 
Growing up, my favorite Ghostbuster was Bill Mu r­
ray's Peter Venkman. And why wouldn't he be? He 
was witty, calm under pressure and had all the best 
one-liners. Hell, in the end he even got the girl. Within 
the past couple of years though, I realized that Venk­
man wasn't the funniest Ghostbuster: it was Ram is' 
Egon Spengler. 
Early in "Ghostbusters" when Venkman asks Egon 
if he's really serious about actually catching a ghost, 
Egon simply replies with a calm "I'm always serious," 
setting the tone for his character that fuels a n anchor of 
comedy throughout the rest of the film. Egon look ed 
at every situation with rationality, responding to ludi­
crous and bizarre scenarios with a steady, monotone 
disposition — p roof that even the brains can b e the fun ­
niest source of humor. 
"I'm sorry, Venkman. I'm terrified beyond the ca­
pacity for rational thought." 
Only Harold Ramis ha d the dry wit necessary to de ­
liver the hilarity within this line. 
But he couldn't do it all b y himself. The comedic suc ­
cess of "Stripes," "Ghostbusters," "Caddyshack" and 
many other projects throughout his career relied heav­
ily on bouncing ridiculous dialogue off of numerous 
comedic talent, som ething Ramis learned early on. 
One of his first gigs was a writer and actor on 
"SCTV," Canada's version of "SNL." It was here that 
he met the likes of many talented comedic actors that 
would later help him create classics such as John Be-
lushi, Rick Moranis, John Candy and Martin Short, all 
of whom are easily candidates to be immortalized on 
comedy's Mt. Rushmore. 
But Ramis doesn't need to be placed on a Mt. R ush-
more of comedy to be remembered. 
The work that he left behind resonates with many 
people, som e of whom would go on to find success in a 
career in comedic filmmaking, and others that are only 
members of an audience looking to sm ile. 
Many times, Mr . Ramis s ucceeded in bringing about 
those sm iles. 
Joseph C asper is a writer for the Niner Online. A versi on 
of th is column originally a ppear ed on UWire. 
8, ALLIGA TOR • FR IDA Y, M ARCH 1 4,2014 
Brain Awareness Week hopes grade school students get cerebr al 
Some dissected sheep brains 
TAYLOR WIDOM 
Alligato r Contributing W riter 
The stu dents of Ro om 5 0C co uld 
barely keep within their assigned 
squares on the rainbow-checkered 
rug Tu esday morning. 
And with teeth clenched as if 
to keep answers from spilling out, 
they each held up one arm and 
waited impatiently to be called on. 
"You use your brain for think­
ing in y our head," said one kinder­
gartener at Newberry Elementary, located at 25705 SW 15th Ave. in 
Newberry. 
"What you hear from your ears, 
your brain tells you what it is ," an ­
other explained. 
Regina Martuscello, coordina­
tor of Gainesville's third annual 
Brain Awareness Week, said the 
presentation was just one of 52 th at 
would be given on and off U F cam ­
pus this week to more than 2,000 
home-schooled and local students 
from kindergarten through 12th 
grade. The goal is to get young people 
excited about neuroscience, she 
said. 
The presentations are tailored 
to different age groups and their 
level of comprehension in the 
"It's important to get kids 
to be knowledgeable." 
Jord an S chmidt 
UF mathematics senior 
hopes of reaching that goal. 
By th e end of the week, elemen­
tary school stu dents will ha ve seen 
a presentation built around art 
and candy-based brain tests, w hile 
middle and high scho ol students will have taken part in sheep brain 
dissections, M artuscello said. 
Most of the outreach materials 
needed were donated by the Dana 
Foundation, which spearheaded 
the national campaign in 1996 to 
increase public awareness of the 
progress and benefits of brain re­
search. 
However, Martuscello said the 
sheep brains contribute to an ad­
ditional expense of about $4,00 0, 
which was funded by the McK -
night Brain Institute and other 
sponsors. 
Twenty-one-year-old UF math­
ematics senior Jordan Schmidt, an undergraduate researcher at the 
McKnight institute and a Brain 
Awareness volunteer, said he 
thinks the campaign is worth far 
more than the investment. 
Schmidt said the campaign 
helps get students thinking about 
the f uture consequences of t oday's 
actions. 
"Choices you make as a chil d or 
young ad ult can affect brain devel­
opment and affect you for the next 
50 y ears or longer," he said."And 
if kids can be informed of how 
their brain works and what kinds 
of changes happen as they age ... 
they can make die right cho ices:" 
LOC AL 
Art business pairs wine with painting to uplift patrons' spirits I IT OPPMPn AT C1 Q MIA/ COTU CT CI IITC D inn ci a .1 . 1 i . .. , , . . . . . I IT OP ENED AT 6 18 NW 60TH ST. S UITE B. 
KRISHN A CAB RERA 
Alligator C ontributing W riter 
Cindy O 'Steen's favorite part about nur sing was being able 
to he lp pe ople feel better. 
But l eaving 26 years later didn't stop her from spreading 
joy. 
O'Steen l eft h er nursing job t o open Painting with a Twist, 
a painting stu dio that pairs wine glasses with brushes, in Oc­tober 2012 in St. A ugustine. After much suc cess, she opened a 
seco nd lo cation in Gainesville las t week, jo ining mo re than 100 
other fra nchise lo cations acro ss th e U.S. 
"Art is abo ut le tting go , put ting your p ersonality on the can ­
vas and seeing what comes o ut," she sa id. "There's something 
freei ng ab out that." 
The business, 618 NW 60th St. S uite B, offers art classe s 
taught by loca l inst ructors an d enc ourages par ticipants to brin g 
their ow n beverages. 
The a rt instructor guides the gro up through painting on e of 
the a bout 3,800 t emplates w ith a ccompanying m usic. 
Kelli Daughtry, die Gainesv ille studio manager, said the first tim e she attended a class in St. Au gustine, she wa s shock ed 
by he r cre ation. 
"I wasn't an artist," Daughtry said. "I never in a million 
years th ought I cou ld do som ething l ike t his." 
Gabriela Fernandez, 20-year -old UF family, youth and 
com munity sciences so phomore, said she's excite d to att end a 
Gainesville session after hearing about a relative's expe rience 
at a P ainting with a Twist st udio in M iami. 
"With Gainesville being such a small town, it's hard to 
find new things to do every weekend," Fernandez said. "This 
sounds like a unique expe rienc e that everyone can enjoy — 
even if th ey aren't artists." 
Police arrest woman 
hiding cocaine in her bra JENNA LYON S 
Alligator staff Writer jlyons@all igator.org 
Gainesville Poli ce ar rested a man an d 
woman W ednesday after police discov­
ered the vvoman was hiding cocain e in 
her b ra. 
Offic ers arrested 
Stephen Johnson Jr., 
26, on charges of co­
caine possession and 
driving with a sus­
pended license. Kan-
ika Kehindi Dem ps, 
40, was arrested on 
charges of cocain e 
possession. 
At about 11 p.m., an offic er notic ed 
a car driven by Johnson speeding. As 
the of ficer c aught up to the car, Johns on 
brak ed and used his turn signal, ac cord ­
ing to the re port. H e then sta rted driving 
on the w rong sid e of the road. Johnson When the office r pulled them over, 
Johnson said he w as dr inking ea rlier. An 
empty bottle of vodka was underneath 
the seat, acc ording to th e rep ort. 
Johnson then let the pol ice se arch his 
person and the vehicle. He admitted to 
smoking marijuana earli er when the of­
ficer fo und weed on t he dr iver's side and 
the passenger floo r boa rd. 
When the officer asked to search 
Demps, she started cryin g. Demps said 
Johnson ha nded her c ocaine an d she had 
stuffed it in her bra. She then removed 
a bag with 4.3 grams of cocaine from 
between her breasts, according to the 
report. 
Officers booked John son into the 
Alachua County Jail a t abo ut 11:5 0 pjn., 
where he remained as of press time in 
lieu of a $7,000 bond. Demps was re­
leased at about 5 p.m. Thursday after 
meeting a $5,000 bo nd. William A . England / Alligator Sta ff 
Ready, Set, Drag 
Drivers line up for practice runs on Thursday afternoon at Gainesville Raceway. The 
45th Annual Amalie Motor Oil NHRA G atornationals will t ake place through Sunday. 
UF science research center celebrates opening with d onors I IT GO T AN $8M GRANT. 
PURVI PANDIT 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
One of UF's largest federal 
awards has helped create one of six 
pred ictiv e sdence research facilit ies 
in the cou ntry o n campus. 
The new Center for Compress­
ible Multipha se Turbulence, located 
in the Pa rticle En gineering Re search 
Center on campus, celebrated with its donors Wednesday evening at 
Eme rson A lumni H all. 
The center came into existence 
after a year of planning on March 
1 with its $8 million federal grant 
mon ey, s aid S. "Bala" Balachandra, 
the dir ector of the center. Th e cen ter 
is funded by the U.S. Department 
of Ene rgy a nd the National Nuclear 
Secunty Administration's Offic e of 
Advance Scien tific Simulation and 
Computing. 
The c enter has been working for 
the Pr edictive Scie nce Academic Al-"This ce nter is exactly th e 
kind of collaborative work that 
UF is id eally sui ted to pur sue." 
Cam my Abernathy 
dean o f the College of Engineer ing 
fiance Program II. 
He said the c enter w ould be used 
toward simulation-based predictive 
science, w hich w ould encompass all 
engineering departments. 
"(California Institute of Technol­
ogy), Stanford, Michigan, Purdue, 
I mean, we can say we're among them," Ba lachandra sa id. 
Cammy Abernathy, dean of the 
College of Engineering, said this 
change will bring in high-quality 
faculty, Ph.D . students and busi­
nesses. >trb. 
'This cente r is exac tly the kind of 
collaborative w ork that U F is id eally 
suited to pu rsue," s he said. 
Nalini K umar, a 26 -year-old e lec­
trical engineering Ph.D. student, 
said she works at the center in col­
laboration with many other depart­
ments and people. The center is focused on solv­
ing problems through a multidis-
cipfin ary approach. Departments 
attempt to simulate responses to 
various p roblems, sh e said. 
"We're working on developing 
sdence," she said. "Imagine if you 
had a volcano, and you wanted to 
predi ct why it ex ploded that way." 
David Norton, vice president fo r 
research a t UF , was one of a handful 
who spo ke at the celebration. 
"We want to be the best of the 
best in the world," he sai d. 
FRIDAY, MAR CH 1 4,2014 • AL LIGA TOR , 9 
M-F 7am-7pm I Sat 8am-4pm 1 Sun 10am-2pm HA NEW DONOR 
SPECIAL alid for New S 'Ret urn New Donors ( "no? d onate d in l ast S mont hs) O NLY 
1ST 2ND 
DONATION DONATION 3RD 4TH 
DONATION DON ATION 
150 N.W. 6TH ST. 
GAINESVILLE, FL 32 601 
BIOLOGIGALS "THE PUHWfi CEWTW 
• www.dciplasma.coin • § s 
COUPON COB PON COUPON COUPON 
Get o n with your life! 
Illness/Injury T reatment | Immunizations [ Pha rmacy 
Allergy Injections j Nutrition Services 
Massage j Sports Med icine j Physical Therapy 
Sexual Health Services j Wo men's Health 
T IF I ^uc*en* Health Care Center 
%Jm I UNIVERSITY of F LORIDA 
shcc.ufl.edu • facebook.com/ufshcc • twitter.com/ufshcc mil mm 
Live without regrets, 
Learn wi thout borders. 
Disc over where you'l! stu dy 
abroad at usac.unr.edu 
@Stu dyAb roadU 5AC ... USAC# University Studies Abroad Consortium Sessio ns help entrepreneurs STATE 
Fla. tosses malpractice caps THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
TALLAHASSEE — Caps placed on how 
much mo ney peop le can receive in cas es wh ere 
a doctor's mista kes led to a patient's death 
were declared unconstit utional by the Horida 
Supreme Cou rt on Thu rsday. 
The laws uit limit s were part of a law R epub­
lican th en- Gov. Jeb Bush push ed in 2003 in a n 
effort to low er the cost of malpractice insu rance 
rates a nd to keep docto rs from m oving o ut of 
state. 
In a 5-2 de cision, the cour t said the caps in 
such cases viol ate the equ al pro tectio n gua ran­
tee in th e stat e's con stitution. 
Thirty-five state s have some type of cap 
on medical malp ractic e award s, according to 
the National Confer ence of State L egislatures. 
Flori da beco mes at least the seventh st ate to de­
clare m edical malprac tice awa rd limits uncon­
stitutional. The rulin g doesn' t affect other sta tes 
beca use it is ba sed on the Florida cons titution. 
The case invo lved a lawsu it filed aga inst the 
federal g overnment by the pare nts of Mich elle 
McCall, who died after giving birth in 2006 
while being treate d by U.S. Air Force doctors 
at Fort Walton Beach Medical Ce nter. A jury 
awarded her paren ts and son $2 milli on, b ut a 
feder al court low ered the aw ard to $1 milli on, citing th e state law . 
Henry Co urtney, the lawyer w ho repres ent­
ed the f amily , said in a phone interview that 
McCal l's parents kept their daughter's bed­
room , which w as pr epared for the arrival of the 
baby , intact after h er death. 
Nonec onomi c dam ages are for pain and suf­
fering, a mong o ther things. Economic a ward s, 
which ha ve no c ap, ref er to lost wage s or medi­
cal costs. 
Horida law capped doctors' liability for 
non-eco nomic dam ages at $500, 000 in most 
malprac tice cases and $1 million in cases i n­
volvin g deat hs. 
The Florid a Med ical Association said ris­
ing in suran ce cost s we re dr iving do ctors out of 
Florida a nd that m ay happen again because of 
this ruli ng. 
Debra Henley, execu tive director of the 
Horid a Justic e Associ ation , said caps on dam­
ages are f undamentally un fair t o the victims of 
medical neg ligenc e. 
"Wh en little ki ds lo se their mo mmy or dad ­
dy because of medical ma lpractice , they're a b­
solute ly victi ms," sh e said . 
The rulin g do esn't address cap s in malprac­
tice cases where th e patient does n't die. Henley 
said she expects that aspe ct of t he la w will be 
before th e court a t som e point . I THE PROGRAM AIMS TO 
EMPOWER WOMEN IN BUSINESS. 
SILVIA RUEDA Carla Buddens ieg, program coordi­
nator. Wom en who participate in the 
program are paired with a technology 
medium and an experienced entrepre­
neur to simulate creating a company. 
The final product is presented to a 
panel of fe male i nvestors at the end of 
the program. 
Buddensieg said, however, that the 
program go es beyo nd te aching women 
business a nd techn olog y skills. 
Christine Urba n participated in 
the program's pilot session in Fall 
2012. Before eWiTS, sh e worked with 
small businesses an d owned a spa. She 
walked aw ay fro m the p rogram feeli ng 
she could do even gr eater things. 
She is now the acting CEO of wa­
ter resource sustainabifity company 
Waterway Ecologies, b ased out of Tal­
lahassee. She will be returning to the 
program this Sprin g as a mentor. 
Women interested in the eWiTS 
program can attend an informational 
session on Tu esday fro m 3 to 5 p.m. at 
the Innovation Hub. Alligator C ontributing W riter 
For 20-y ear-old UF financ e junior 
Ariela Ste inberg, being a w oman in th e 
business w orld can feel lik e walkin g on 
eggshe lls. 
"I feel a lot of pressure going into 
interviews th at I don't think men do ... 
it's a lmost lik e a b oys clu b," she s aid. 
But a program by UF's Office of 
Techn ology Licensing, UF Tech Con­
nect an d the Florida Inno vation H ub is 
seeki ng to c hange that. 
The pr ogram, Em pow ering Wom en 
in Tech nolo gy Startups, takes women 
on a 10-we ek journey where they l earn 
skills to com bine science and technol­
ogy with business to create products 
and start companies. It is set to begin 
its thi rd session later this se mester. 
The s essions are not set in a tradi­
tional classroo m environment, said 
10, AL LIGATOR • FRID AY, M ARCH 1 4,2014 
CAM PUS 
UF med school jump s in national rank MONiQUE H ERNAND EZ 
Alligato r Contributing W riter 
The UF College of Medicine 
jumped up three spots on Tuesday 
in the top research medical school 
rankings in the nation. 
For t he se cond year in a r ow, the 
university's medical school has im­
proved in ranking in the U.S. N ews 
and World Report, moving fro m its 
spot last year as No. 45 to No. 42 
out of th e 114 schools ranked. 
The rankings also revealed the 
colleg e ranked No. 75 for best pri­
mary care e ducation. 
Marian Limacher, senior associ­
ate d ean for faculty affairs and pro­
fessional development for the Col­
lege of Medicine, said the increase 
in ranking was due to a couple of 
factors, including student excel­
lence, fac ulty accomplishments and 
colle ge cu rriculum. 
She said it is gratifying that 
there is external recognition for the 
work and accomplishments every­
one in the college has done during 
the past years. 
According to the U.S . News and 
World Report's website, the medi­
cal schools are ranked by several factors, including MCAT scores, 
students' undergraduate grade 
point averages, acceptance rates, 
faculty-to-student ratios and Na­
tional Institutes of Health grants 
awarded. 
"We don't consider U .S. 
News and World Report's 
ranking to be the ultimate 
measure of success for the 
College of Med icine ." 
Mari an Lima cher 
senior associate dean 
The average GPA for incoming 
medical students is 3.8, and the 
MCAT s cores are above the nation­
al average for accepted students, 
Limacher said. 
The Col lege of Medi cine is build­
ing a n ew medical scho ol ed ucation 
building to enhance the ability to 
fully implement the n ew c hanges in 
the college's c urriculum, she s aid 
"It will continue to help us im­
prove in national stature," Limach­
er said. 
The college has also had an in­
crease in the level of the National 
Institutes of Health funding over 
the past several years due to com­petitive research awards, Limacher 
said. She said a factor is having ef­
fective researchers on faculty and 
being able to recruit people who 
are similarly succ essful in receiving 
funding. 
However, the rise in ranking 
doesn't necessarily affect decisions 
made by the college o r by students. 
"We don't consider U.S. News 
and World Report's ranking to be 
the ultimate m easure of s uccess for 
the Co llege of Me dicine," Li macher 
said. "It is one metric of external 
recognition. It's not what drives 
us." 
Harrison Bonil la, a 19-year-old 
UF chemistry sophomore on the 
pre-med track, s aid the UF College 
of M edicine is am ong his top choic­
es for medical sch ools. 
Bonilla s aid he would be able to 
flourish at the UF Co llege of Medi­
cine because it foste rs a low-stress 
environment and tight-knit com­
munity. 
"I'm surprised (the ranking) 
didn't rise even higher," Bonilla 
said. "I see how UF is constantly 
improving. So to me, it doesn't re­
ally influence my opinion because 
it's something that I exp ected." GPD aids in re scue 
of mi ssing woman » A HE LICOPTER HELPED. 
JENNA LYONS 
Alligato r Staff Writer 
jlyons@ alligator.org 
A woman and three chil­
dren missing since Tuesday 
in the Ocala National For­
est were located Wednesday 
morning with the help of the 
Alachua Sheriff's Office and 
Gainesville Police Joint Avia­
tion Unit. 
At about 9 a .m., the Marion 
County Sheriff's Office re­
quested a helicopter from the 
unit to help with the search, 
wrote G PD s pokesman O fficer 
Ben T obias in an email. After 
an unsuccessful search in the 
northern area of the forest, a 
Lake County Sheriff's Office 
helicopter began to search the 
southern area and spotted the 
woman and the children in a 
wilderness area near U.S. 41. The woman went for a drive 
with the children, and her car 
got stuck in the mud. 
When Marion County 
Sheriff's Office deputies brain-
stormed how to get cars to the 
stranded woman and children, 
a joint aviation unit pilot sug­
gested landing and evacuating 
the group by air, Tobias s aid. 
A helicopter piloted by a 
Marion County officer picked 
up two boys, then another air­
craft piloted by a GPD officer 
picked up the woman and 
a 2-month-old baby, Tobias 
said. Pilots flew the group to 
Salt Springs Sheriff's station 
for medical attention and to 
treat for dehydration. 
Ocala National Forest 
spreads over about 383,0 00 
acres. Much of it is restricted 
to ve hicle traffic, w hich is why 
Marion County Sheriff's Of­
fice called for additional air 
service, Tobias said. 
Graduate students rally in support of lowering assistant fees BEATRI CE D UPUY 
Alligator S taff Writer bdupuy@alligator.org 
Graduate students lined the steps of Ti-
gert Hall clanging pots and chanting "no 
more fees" as part of a Graduate Assistants 
United rally Thursday. More than 60 students donning "Don't 
feed the Gators with my fees" shirts assem­
bled to voice their opposition to the current 
rate of graduate assistant fees. 
At the rally, the students were asked to 
sign a letter stating their needs for Marshall 
Cristina Ruiz-Poveda / Alligator 
Gwendol yn Zoharah Simmons, a UF as sistant profes sor and activist, supports Grad u­
ate Assistan ts United at the rally ag ainst tuition fees on T hurs day a t Tigert Hall. Criser III, the chancellor of Florida's state 
university system. 
In front of posters listed with the salaries 
of university administrators, Tom Auxter, a 
UF ph ilosophy professor, said the $700-per-
semester fee rate is an outrageous amount 
for g raduate assistants to pay. 
"You will no t build a top 
10 university on the backs of 
underpaid and overworked graduate 
students." 
Kevin Funk 
co-president of UF's G AU chapter 
"This is not the way to treat graduate 
students at a serious university," said Aux­
ter, who's also the president of the United 
Faculty of Florida. "They are the center­
piece of all the work we're doing." 
The University of South Florida and 
Florida State University had Graduate As­
sistants United representatives at the con­
ference as well. 
Joshua Guy Lenes, co -president of USF's 
Graduate Assistants United chapter, said 
graduate students need to come together to 
raise awareness about the cost of fe es. 
"We. are gathered as state employees 
to tackle this issue at a state level," the 27-
year-old said after the conference. 
In 2013, Gov. Rick Scott signed a bill to 
provide $15 million to elevate UF to a top 10 university. Kevin Funk, the 31-year-old 
co-president of UF's GAU chapter, said he 
thinks UF sh ould eliminate the fees to help 
propel it into a high-ranking spot. 
"You will not build a top 10 university 
on the backs of underpaid and overworked 
graduate students," he said. 
About 4,200 graduate assistants who 
teach, research and assist professors are 
enrolled at UF, according to a UF press re­
lease. In October, UF and the Graduate As­
sistants United negotiated a contract that 
included a 4.4 percent raise for graduate 
assistants. 
However, students say the raise didn't 
help much for some, such as Milton New­
berry IE, a UF agriculture education and 
communication graduate student who said 
he still can't afford to attend conferences 
for his research. 
"They are asking so much from gradu­
ate students," said Newberry, 30. 
UF f aculty members w ere also present at 
the rally. Paul O rtiz, director of the Samuel 
Proctor Oral History Program, as well as 
Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons, assistant 
professor in the African American Studies 
Program and the Department of Religion, 
showed their support for the students. 
"You are receiving poverty-level wages 
to do the job that many professors receive 
six-figure salaries for," Simmons told the 
crowd. 
Gainesville Dojo 
Boxin g or KicMioxing 
Purchase 8 wks of Boxin g of 
Kickbo xing f or $120 & rec eive 2 
extra weeks free. 
378- 3070 536 SW 2n d Ave 
GEN ERA L NUTRITION CEN TER S 
M 27% O FF any one GNC P roduct 
ra C anno t be com bine d One Co upon per c usto mer. 
3914 SW Archer Rd 
onjy available at Butler Plaza location 
Specials 377-5020 Exp 3/31 /14 ,, $100 PER NIGH T 
GUA RANT EED 
Gator Domino's is hiring closing 
drivers at the SW 13th St. location 
APPLY ONLINE 
WWW.GATORDOMINOS.COM 
Must have a good car. 2 tickets or 
less in {h e last 3 years. 
Must pass a background check. 
Cash paid daily includes wage, 
mileage, & tips. Mus t wor k a 
closing shift of 8 hours cr more to 
meet the $100+ guarantee. purchase of an entree 
4200 NW 97th Blvd. 
352-331-4875 Half O ff Exam for New Patients! 
Only $ 26.00 a fter discount 
Valid at both locations. Ad must be mentioned 
when making appointment. Valid while 
openings are available. 
See our Webs ite or Facebook pag e for add itiona l specials 
Oaks Veterinary Hospital 
k 229 NW 75tb St. j 562.7172 I oakvets.com A 
Northwqod Oaks Veterinary Hospital 
5-331 NW 34"'n give j 505.8574 j nwoakvets com 
I I « •: 5 '» 5 5 S S 2 ? S • ! S 5 5 5 2 ? S « S 3 I y . 
# 1 
Advertising Sup plement FRIDAY , MARCH 14, 2014 • ALLIGATOR, STU DEN T LIVING G UIDE, 3 
I ft GET 
YOUR 
Dl DAY. B 
apartments in_ 
gainesville^ 
1. Arbor Park 
2. Arlington Square 
3. Aspe n Rid ge 
4. Bivens Cove 
5. Boardwalk 
6. Cam pus Club 
7. Cobblestone 
8. College Manor 
9. College Park 10. The Crossing at Santa Fe 
11. The Enclave 
12. Frederick Gardens 
13. Gainesville Place 
14. The Gardens 
15. Greenwich Green 
16. Hidden Lake 
17. Hidden Village 
18. The Landings 19. The Laurels 
20. Lexington Crossing 
21. Madison Pointe 
22. Museum Walk 
23. Oxford Manor 
24. Pinetree Gardens 
25. The Polos 
26. Spanish Trace 
"Map indicates approximate location. Please call property for further directions. Apartment searching? Apartmentsingainesville.com has a full listing 
of Gainesville's best apartments. 
it you re looking tor These,.. 
Unlimited utilities 167 steps to UF 
tially furnished Newly upgraded units 
Pet friendly Guaranteed parking 
Sign a lease a nd g et your keys i§ 352-372-7111 www.coll egemano r.org 
V V% Roomate 
tm VDT Matching 
rfrt/itAI vthm ^Ifrossfng®0 
IH 1 Y Uxingtoncrossingtcc.com 4000 SW 37th Boulevard 
www.CampusC lubTCC .com oh2. Bedrooms! 
NLY 4 LEFT!!!! (ft Clfc ^CQBegePc^uF-QainesviCCe Tface 
APARTME NTS 
352.2 71.31 311 Gai nesvillePla ce.co m | 2800 SW 35th Place | Gaine sville. FL 32608 
Study at 
the Sw amp 
live a t The i^ke! 
CAMPUS "CLUB APARTMENTS 
4, STU DENT L IVING G UIDE, AL LIGATOR • FRIDAY, MARCH 14,2014 Advertising Supplemen 
Do ! Really Need Insurance 
For MY Personal Property? 
Yes. Unless you are financially able to replace all yo ur 
belongings, you sho uld h ave insurance. Proper insur­
ance coverage will protect you against the loss of your 
valuables in mo st circumstances. Land lords are leg ally 
respo nsibl e for s uch loss es only un der very spe cific, lim ­
ited circumstances that m ay be very difficult to prove in 
• court. 
If you are a resident-relative of your par ents, yo ur pe r­
sonal pr operty may be insured through their h omeown­
er's po licy. Have your pa rents confirm the coverage in 
writing wit h the ir ins urance agent. 
If coverage is not available through your par ents' 
homeowner's policy, you may be able to purchase 
renter's insu rance. Even w ith in surance, there are cer­
tain precautions you sho uld a lways take. Alway s loc k 
your apartment sec urely ev en if you are only going next 
door. Nev er leave jewe lry, c ameras, cash, che ckbooks, 
credit cards, ele ctronics, or o ther valuables in pla in 
view. Getting Along 
You MAY be able eithe r to withhold your 
rent or te rminate your lease if t he problem 
consti tutes a material breach of the lease 
or the Act. You must follow the exact re­
quire ment s of t he Act. 
You must give the lan dlord a w ritten no­
tice demanding the repairs be made in 
seve n days. The notice must indicate an in­
tent to terminate th e lease or with hold ren t 
if the repa irs ar e not made. 
This is a complicated process a nd the le­
gal con sequences are very serio us. Do not 
attempt to te rminate your lease or with hold 
rent without first obtaining leg al ad vice. Can I Deduct 
Repair Costs 
From My Rent? 
No. 
The Ac t does not auth o­
rize you to make repairs or 
to re cover the cost of such 
repai rs. In fa ct, mos t apart­
ment leases prohibit re­
pairs by t enants. Wh en the 
landlord refuses to make 
repai rs, the Act gives you 
a qualified right to termi­
nate the lease or w ithhold 
rent. As pr eviously ind icat­
ed, you should consu lt an 
attorney before attempt­
ing to terminate the lease 
or withhold rent. 
Information reprinted with permission by UF S tudent Legal Services 
i£<Hi . Sr//i /ir& 
LUfcuti 
\%-
1 ' t: 
i" 
Tour today and receive* 
A $150 Visa gift card 
if you sign a 12 month lease 
*offer valid when you sign a lease within 72 hours of a tour 
1601 SW 51st Terrace 
Gainesville, FL 32607 
cbga inesv ille.co m I 3 52-335-2000 
Advertising Supplement FRID AY, M ARCH 1 4,2014 • ALLIGATOR, STUDENT LIVING GUIDE, 5 
gatorstudentliving.com 
HOUSING FAIR MARCH 14 - 10AM-1PM 
• N THE REI TZ UNION BREE ZEWA Y 
THE ESTATES 
TAKE A TOUR BY 3/16 & BE ENTERED TO WIN $1000 
+ SAVE $209 WITH ZERO DOWN @ THE ESTATES 
Fees & deadlines subject to change. See office for details. Limited time only. While supplies last. ^ ' AN AMERICAN CAMPUS COMMUN! i T 
6, ST UDENT LIVING GUI DE, ALLIGATOR • FRID AY, MA RCH 14 ,2014 Advertising Supplement 
NW 39th Ave. 
NW 23rd Ave. 
•NW 1 6th Ave. 
NW 8th Ave. 
• 
W University Ave. • I fflgii g§8S# 
K .1' ... 
' ' 
m SW 2nd Ave. 
Depot Ave 
cn 
tradwak apartments 
2701 SW 13 th St. • 
• 
grove 
^Cab (J'WeJ'THE 
ESTATES 3527 SW 20th St. 
3477 Hull Rd. 725 NW 13th St. • 
* ilo-fL St ypuArt 
if lA/isierut/ 7D(HV?LS 
2701 SE 2 nd Ave. 
AVIA RA 
205 SW 16th Ave. TtlE POLOS # Gainesville 
2330 SW Williston Rd. 
2930 SW 
23 rd Terr. 
ir aoana BEACH 
1601 SW 51st Terr. if Lexington o 
Grassing TOWNEPARC A GAINE SViLlf COMM UNITY 
o e 
CAMPUS FCLUB APAR TM EN TS ' 
4000 SW 37th Blvd. • 3700 SW 27th St. 
HIPPEN 
LA KE 1015 NW 21st Ave. Gainesville Place 
2800 SW 35th PI. 
2701 NW 23rd 
Blvd. 303 NW 17th St. 
Adverti sing Su pple men t FRIDAY, MARCH 14 ,2014 • ALLIGATOR, STUDE NT L IVIN G GUIDE, 7 
Leases Joint Leases ake sure y ou read and fully u nderstand all aspects of the lease before signing. A lease is a contract 
between you and your landlord that spells out specific details of your living arrangement. Leases 
• j loften involve policies about pets, security and pet deposits, legal entry and other important infor­
mation. Typically, leases in Gainesville are for 12 m onths. If you will need your place for 10 m onths or less, 
talk with the management about whether they can provide you a short-term lease. There are two types of 
leases that are usually available, Joint Le ases and Individual Leases . M: 
All roommates are held respo nsibl e for the lease. If one person breaks the lease, the other room­
mates are held respo nsibl e for paying the total rent. This tends to be the lease more prominent 
when renting a house or single fa mily dwelling. 
Individual Lease s 
Each person is held res ponsi ble for his or he r own actions. For inst ance, if one roommate brea ks th e 
lease , that person is sti ll respons ible for paying their own rent. For most college stude nts, ind ividual 
leases are the b est choice. Each pe rson in th e lea se is responsible fo r his or her o wn actions and no t 
the actions of a roommate. 
Clauses to LOOK FOR in a lease: 
ODates of occupancy 
3 Amount of monthly rent and the 
date it is due each month 
3 Amount of Application Fees , Se­
curity Deposit, Redecoration Fees 
and any other fees c harged 
3 Res ponsibility fo r payment of utili­
ties 
ORespon sibility f or general mainte­
nance and repairs 
^Sublease: If you sign a 12 month 
lease, b ut think you may need the 
dwelling for a shorter p eriod of time, 
make sure th e lease allows you to 
sublease (rent your dwelling to an­
other person who will a ssum e the 
remainder of your lease) 
3Pet policy 
^Automatic renewal clause 
3Type of lease: Joint vs. Individual J Clau ses to AVOID in a lease: 
3At man agement's d iscretion, the 
tenant may be asked to leave with­
in three days 
OTenant waives all defects in the 
building 
OLandlord shall n ot be responsible 
for injury to person, including tenant 
and guests, as a result o f any cause 
OTenant is responsible for all rep airs 
to premises 
OLandlord m ay enter dwelling with­
out notice 
OLandlord has a lien (a legal claim 
on the property of another as se cu­
rity for the payment of a debt) on 
all personal property of tenant H 
A great University of Florida resource available to full-time 
students is Stu dent Legal Services. For any questions on your 
lease, visit the Student Legal Services website www.studenflc 
golservices.ufl.edu and set up an appointment with a lawyer 
to help review it BEFORE yo u sign it. 
Information reprinted with permission by UF' s Off Cam pus Life 
V /instate You're in good hands. Ask abo ut our 
Auto & Renters 
Bund les 
Mickey H. Rawls INS LLC. 
1410 NW 13th Street S-9 | Gainesville, FL 32601 
(352) 377-551 1 Our Ap 
*1.3 M iles t o UF 
*0n City Bu s Route 13 
*Cardio Cen ter 
*BBQ Area At Poo l "Pets Welcom e 
*Ceram ic Til e In K itchen & 
Bath 
*Resor t Style P ool w ith 
Hamm ock a nd M isters 
AUTO • HOME RENTER • COMMERCIAL 
FREE QUOTE LIFE • FLOOD^ 32605 352.377.7401 
www.boardwalkaptcom 
2701 SW 13th Street 
Gainesville, F132605 LOW COST SPAY/NEUTER 
We're Fix ing to Sa ve Lives! 
Operation PetSnip 
$50 Cats $80 Dogs 
$50 Co mmunity Cats 
I m jm HMilffiKtl 
4205-A2 NW 6th Street 
Gainesville, FL 32 609 
352-376-6647 
nmhp.net 
8, STUDENT LIV ING G UIDE, AL LIGATOR "FRI DAY, M ARC H 14,20 14 Advertising Supplement 
f you are thinking about renting 
a house or apartment, Renter's 
Insurance provides important 
coverage for both you and your 
poss essio ns. A standard Renter's Policy protects your personal property in case of theft or damage and may pay for 
temporary living expenses if yo ur rental is damaged (including loss of use). It c an also shield you from personal liability. 
Anyone who leases a house or apartment should consider this type of coverage. 
I OTalk with your parents before getting your own 
renter's policy. If you are still financially dependent on your parents or a family 
Stember ana they own a home, they might be able to cover you under their home-
wner's policy. Some homeowner policies will cover a dependent's rental property 
while in college. 
OJhere are several types of Residential Insurance policies. Read your policy 
information carefully and ensure you have full coveraqe. Policies should in­
clude the following 
'items: 
1 Fire or li ghtning 
Windstorm or hail 
Explosion 
Aircraft 
Vehicles 
Smoke 
| • Vandalism or m alicious 
| mischief 
j • Theft 
« • Damage by glass or safe-
I ty-glazing material that is 
J part of a building 
• Falling objects 
j • Water-related damage 
from home utilitie s 
j • Electrical surg e damage 
Flood s, ear thquakes, a nd hurricanes 
| aren 't on the list. I f you live in an area 
prone to one or mo re of the three, you 'll 
need to buy a separate policy or a rider. 
In are as w here hurrica nes c an pose a 
threat, you might also n eed to buy a 
separate rider to cover w ind damage. 
Ask you r insu ranc e agent about this ext ra 
coverage. Gain esvill e is pro ne to hurri­
canes and some are as flood. 
EMPOWERVOOR 
BOSINESS, 
Advert ise in the c ountry's 
large st co llege newspaper. 
With a d aily c irculation of 35,00 0 
and a d aily re aders hip of 50, 000, 
reach eve ry mark et in Gain esvill e. Information reprinted with permission by UF's O ff Camp us Life 
• Prices starting at $335/month per person! 
• 3/3, all-inclusive r oommate matching available 
• Wa lk-in closet s 
• 3 Pools 
• 24 h our Fitness Center 
• Sand Volleyball P it, Racquetball, Basketball & Ten nis Courts 
• 3 RTS Bus Rou te O ptions J 
^Waived signing fees with this ad 
through March 30th (up to $540 value!) --- ' — ' 
Contact us at [352] 376.4482. 
alligator facebook.com/thepolos www. 
52.335. 2330 SWVVilliston Rd • Gainesville, FL 3 2608 CeL? 
Advertising Supple ment FRIDAY, MARCH 1 4,2014 • ALLIGATOR, ST UDENT LIVI NG GUIDE, 9 
Safety Tips 
Both personal and property safety is important 
as you search tor off-campus housing. Before 
signing a lease. Off Campus Life recommends 
you check the crime stats of an area before moving 
t^ere. a free service called Crime Reports is avail­
able on the Gainesville Police Department's website. 
Crime Reports allows you to see all reported crime in 
a certain area. Go to www.gainesvillepd.org, click 
"Crime Reports" on the right-hand side, and enter 
the address of interest to see local incident data. 
1 Go back to the. 
complex at night. 
How do you feel? Is 
the place well-lit and 
populated or dark and 
isolated? Below are five tips t o use w hen looking at safety during your a partment 
4 search: 
2Does the property 
have working se-3Check for dead 
bolts on the outside 
curity gates and/or 
guards? door, locks for individual 
doors, alarm systems, 
etc. and ask lots of 
questions about the se­
curity. Is there an extra 
charge for a security 
system? Has th ere been 
"crime in the area 
recently? What ac­
tions have been done 
to prevent crime from 
happening? 5Don't forget about 
purchasing some 
Renter's Insurance to 
protect you and your 
stuff from the unex­
pected. 
Information reprinted with permission by UF's Off Cam pus Life 
doesn't mean you shouldn' 
protect what you own. 
I can help you take car e of wh at's yours. 
Protect your valuables for an average of about 68$ a day** 
with Castle Key R enters Ins urance. Plus, I c an h elp yo u save 
up to 10% on your auto policy when you purchase Castle 
Key Renters Insurance. 
Call me today to get a quote. 
KRIS HOCTER 
352-3 75-75 11 
3720 NW 43RD STRE ET #100 
GAINESVILLE 
krishocter@allstate.com 
IN DEMNITY COMPANY 
• •prem ium based on rounde d state atei aoe. Actual premiu m wil l vary. Coverage and discounts are subject to av ailability and 
qualificatio ns. Discount amou nt may v ary Please read policy tor detai ls. Property i nsuran ce issued b y Castfe Key indemnity 
Company. S t Petersburg. F t Castle Key Indemn ity Company is rei nsured by Castle Key Insura nce Company, formerly Allstate § 
Roridia n insurance Compan y The assets and obfcgations o! the C aste Key compani es are separate and dis tinct from those of 
any other comp any in the Aitelate gr oup. -'3 200 3 Allstate Insurance Company $50 off rent if you sign y our lease 
by 3 /31/14 per month 
Offer Valid with: 
Rege ncy Oaks 
Apartments 
• Oak Glade 
Apartments 
Southwest Villas • Rocky Point 
Apartments 
• Archer Woods 
Country Gardens 
Apartments 
MADISON 
""20 th 
VP\ RTM KNTS 
I #1311 
One and Two-B edroom 
Apartme nts s tarting a t 
$450 pe r month . 
madisonon20 th.co m 
Open Mon-Fri 
8am - 5pm 1901-B SW 4 0th Terrace 
352-335-7066 MIJ5 C ANC ER % PRO JEC T 
•« 
Finally! •> 
A prescription with 
side effectsyou want. .. 
Blueberries and red 
bean s are powerful 
remedies against 
cancer. Research 
shows that fruits, 
vegetables, and other low-
fat vegetarian foods m ay 
help prevent cancer and 
improve survival rates. A 
plant-based diet can also 
lower cholesterol. & 
For a pe e nutrition booklet with 
cancer fighting recipes, 
call toll-free 1-866-906-WELL or 
visit www.CancerProject.org 
I 
J 
* • mmm •*-- • m 
'3 1 What is the 
I monthly rent? 
2What's included in th at rent? Utilities, 
gas, wa ter, cable, Internet? 
What's n ot included in rent? What is the 
average monthly cost for ga s, electric, 
water, garbage disposal? If management 
doesn't know, contact GRU at www.gru. 
com and they can give you average costs 
pf utilities for th e previous ye ar. 
4Want to have a pet? Factor in t he de­
posi t and monthly cost for fo od, medical 
and grooming care. 
5Don't fo rget the insurance. Before yo u 
sign your le ase, call your in surance com­
pany and see how much it will cost monthly 
to insu re yo ur apartment or h ouse. 
6Are y ou g oing to need fuel fo r yo ur 
vehicle or a re you going to use the bus? 
Factor transportation/car maintenance 
costs int o yo ur budget. 
7How much will you spend monthly on 
groceries or on a meal plan? &*** — • m — • —i — - « ••••> • — » 
gHave some fun! Don't sp end so much on rent that you don't have money for fun stuff. 9-mmmm mmrnmmmmm • mmmm 
j Q What d0 you spend on clothing, shoes and accessories? 
ho How m uch money can you save every month? It's reall y good to save some money every month to cover 
ed emergency expenses. Even $ 20 a month saved is good. Every littl e bit c ounts. I l 
unexpect- | 
j mmm 9 -- • Ml am mmm m mm mmm m . am mmm mm 
Your living environ ment plays a major fa ctor in your overall ha ppiness level. Know wh at you w ant to qet out of vour l ivina SDac e an d 
off c Zp^«°ncen1 r°°mmate's) accordingly. Gainesville i s hom e now so le t Off Campus Life hllp you g et the m ^t o^ olyour 
Information reprinted with permission by UFs Off Campus Life 
GUIDE TO 
Every Thursday I 
The Alligator 
alligator J 1/1 Flat: 1st Floor 
1/1 Flat: 2nd Floor 
2/2 Townhouse 
3/2 Townhouse 
4/2 Townhouse 1635 $615* 
$650- $635* 
1656- $785* 
$956- $850* 
$115 0 $950*J *Specials valid for select units. Rates subject to change. Some restrictions may apply. 
•W~ 
TOWNE PARC 
2930 SW 23rd Terrace (352) 375 - 3072 
Gainesville FL, 32608 www.towneparc.com * Large sparkling pool 
• Great Fitness Center 
* Clubhouse with 
billiards & foosball 
« Alarm systems in every unit 
• Lighted basketball, 
raquetball & tennis courts * Pe t Friendly 
8 3 Bus routes to UF 
* Computer Lab 
* Dog Park 
* Vegetable Garden 10, STU DENT LIVING GUIDE, ALLIGATOR . FRIDAY. MARCH 14.7014 Advertising Supplement 
dgets You can't find the right place to li ve until you kn ow how m uch yo u 
are able to spend. Here are some budget que stions y ou should 
think about while touring a propert y: 
Adv ertising S upplement FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 2014 • ALLIGATOR, ST UDEN T LIVING G UIDE^ll 
Does the Law Require 
i Interes t Payme nts on 
Security Depos its? 
Landlords must hold securi ty deposits in 
one of three methods. Two met hods of h old­
ing the deposit s require interes t to be paid. 
The met hod wh ich does not require int erest 
payment is the one most landlords use. The 
landlord is req uired to inform you in writing 
how your deposit is be ing held, where it is 
held, and w hether you will rec eive interest. When you take occupancy of the apartment, co mplete a thorough w ritten inv entory of the 
apartment's condition and have the landlord or an impartial wi tness sign th e inventory. Ma ke 
sure yo u keep a copy of the inventory. Thi s helps p rotect you from the landlord claiming you 
caused pre-existing da mage. 
When you move out, clean the apartment completely and thoroughly. Som e landlords pro ­
vide a checklist outlining the cleaning they expect you to do. Keep all your r eceipts for clean­
ing supp lies a nd profes siona l carpet cleaning as ev idence. 
Before y ou leave, ask th e lan dlord to in spect the a partment with yo u. Complete a move-out 
checklist and make sure th e landlord signs an d da tes it. Use an impartial witness if the landlord 
is not available or refuses yo ur re quest. Move-in and move-out photographs or videotape are 
strong ly recommended in ca se there is a dis pute. 
Getting Out 
Can I Br eak M y Leas e Be cause... 
I am graduating? 
My roommate left? 
I cannot afford the rent? 
I need to work this summer? 
The n eighborhood is u nsafe? No! 
No! 
No! 
No! 
No! 
Under the Act, you can only terminate the lease 
if the landlord is materially violating your lease or th e 
Act. You shou ld ob tain legal advice before attempt­
ing to terminate your lease. In ma ny cases, the best 
thing y ou can do is fin d replacement tenants. Can I Sublet My Apartment? ^ Usually, the la ndlord cannot unre asonably withhold co nsent to an as signment or sublease. 
The la ndlord m ay re quire potential replacement ten ants to s ubmit an a pplication inc luding a 
credit check. The landlord m ay also c harge a r easonable sub let fee ev en when you provide 
the replacement tenants. Normally you remain liable under your lease if the replacement 
tenants do not pay rent or damage the apartment. Som e land lords will rele ase you fro m the 
obligations of your le ase. If yo u are being re leased, get it in wr iting. 
How Soon Must I Renew M y Lease? 
There is no time period established b y the Act. You sho uld n ot sign a lease that pro­
vides for automatic renewals of requires you to give the landlord a notice of nonre­
newal. If you d o sign su ch a lease, yo u must strictly c omply with th e no tice require ments 
imposed by the lease. There are some limits to the enforceability of these clauses. 
Contact an attorney if you have any que stions. 
If the lease does not specify other wise, renewals are a matter of general contract 
law The lan dlord cannot force you to r enew prior to the end of yo ur lease. How ever, if 
you do not renew by the landlord's "deadline," the landlord m ay rent your apartment 
to someone else. 
Information reprinted with permission by UF Student Legal Services 
YEAH. 
T'S THAT FAST WE TALKING 
ABOUT US! 
eAlligatorArmy-
"[GATOR NET is the] 
Lest Internet in Gainesville, 
IMQ. and part of 
the reason I picked my 
current complex." & 
Is the fastest Internet in Gainesville available 
where you re nt? It sh ould b e! Only GAT OR NET 
can p rovide all the speed you 'll eve r need. E njoy 
cutting-edge, non-stop Inte rnet when you li ve in a 
GATO R NET community. That mea ns streaming 
video, m usic, gam es and your classes on multiple 
computers without ever s lowing down or buffering 
again. Yeah, it 'll blow you away. 
To find a GATO R NET community, visi t 
www. gator. net Already locke d into a leas e? 
Tell your p roperty man ager you need GAT OR N ET. 
ASK B EFORE YOU LEASE! 
Call 352-3 34-300 0 or go to 
www.gator.net to learn more today! FIBER OPTIC INTERNET 
Powered by GRU 
RES ORT ST YLE PO OL 
ADDRESS: 3477 Hu|j R oad GaiHesyjjjg pL 32607 
PHONE: _ 1 WPB 
352.376.5373 WcB: gogrove.com/gainesviHe 
FACEBOOK: x 
facelXKJk.com/grovegainesville 
^WITTER: @grovegaines . FULLY LOADED COLLEGE LIVING® grove 12, S TUD ENT LIVING GUIDE, AL LIGATOR • FRIDAY, M ARCH 1 4,2014 Advertising Sup plem ent 
PRIVATE ROOM, BA TH AND 
WAL K IN CLOS ET COM E BY AND 
DISCOVER LIFE ATTHE 
GROVE WHERE YOU 
CAN ENJOY OUR 
BEACH VOLLEYBALL 
FRIDAY, MAR CH 14 ,2014 • AL LIGATOr i|ll 
CAMPUS 
UF learning labs featured in study JESSICA HUNDLEY a 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Two UF innova tive l earning sp aces we re fea­
tured in a recen t case study done by manufac­
turer Steelcase Study Sol ution s. 
The Media:scape Learn Lab in the archit ec­
ture building, and the AHA ! Inn ovation Cola b 
in Weimer Hal l, we re fe atured in the study . The 
spaces are not constructed like conv entio nal 
classrooms but are designed for a more activ e 
style of learning. 
Jason Meneely , an assoc iate professor in the 
depar tmen t of interior design, helped design 
both labs. 
"When you come in th e room , there is no fro nt 
of the room," Men eely said . "You have four wa lls 
with LCD projectors drat are projec ted right on to 
whit e boards." 
This is done , he said, to try and eliminate a 
teaching stag e. Students are able to interact di­
rectly with the info rmation t hey ar e dealin g wit h 
and are enc ourage d to openly participa te in dis­
cussions. This active learning is meant to help 
better motivate the student than a lecture hall 
would, he said. 
Each s tudent has access to a whiteboard, a 
collaborative mon itor a nd a pro jector th at can b e 
viewe d by the entire c lass. Chelsea Caracciolo, a 21-year-old UF advertis­
ing sen ior, said she fre quently uses th e AHA! In­
nova tion Colab. 
"Usually we do te am m eetings u p here, so we 
have more freed om to k ind of talk abou t things," 
Caraccib lo said. "The whiteboards in the meet­
ings roo ms are really nice to spr awl all your notes 
on an d kind of brain storm." 
Merteely said the class room s have received 
mixe d reviews from instructors. Some love it, 
but othe rs have a h ard time ada pting to the new 
teaching style. 
"What companies are really looking 
for are people who are able to 
creatively solve problems, regardless 
of what field you're in." 
Jason M eneely 
interior design asso ciate prof essor 
Ther e is not one sin gle te achin g platf orm tha t 
is perfec t for a specific subjec t, but thes e teaching 
style s could be beneficial in ma ny diffe rent fields, 
Menee ly said. 
"What compa nies are looki ng for are not 
people who know it all," Meneely said. "What 
companies are really lo oking for a re pe ople wh o 
are able to creative ly sol ve prob lems , regardle ss 
of wh at field you 're in ." Police: Bargoers should 
arrange transportation li 
» SNAP WILL RUN UNTIL 3 A .M. 
DENISE ROB INSO N 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Students hoping for ex tra tr anspor­
tation optio ns on St. P atric k's Day are 
out of luck. 
Univer sity Police Officer Way ne 
Clark , superv isor for the Student 
Nigh ttime Auxiliar y Patrol, sai d he as­
sumes ther e will be more re quests than 
usual. 
SNAP' S hours will not change for 
the holiday, which means vans will 
run until 3 a.m. 
The Re gional Tran sit Sy stem's L at­
er G ator, whic h offers la te-night rides 
to stud ents Wednesd ay thr ough Satu r­
day, will not be pickin g up r evelers. 
RTS spoke sman Chi p Skinner wrote 
in an email i t cannot a dd another day 
becau se the service is fund ed by UF. "Contract negoti ation s are betwe en 
the transportatio n fee commit tee and 
UF faculty and Student Gove rnme nt 
memb ers," he s aid. 
Michael Brown, a 21-year-old UF 
food science and human nutri tion ju­
nior, said he walked home when hi*? 
lived on cam pus. Now that he has a n 
apart ment , buses affect how late he 
can stay out . 
"For living off campus, it would 
definitely aff ect h ow late I stay ou t be­
caus e I wou ld be st randed on ca mpus 
due to lack of trans portatio n," he sai dy^j 
Those o ld enough to drink shoul d 
be respons ible for dec iding how they'll 
get h ome b efore they leave, said GPD 
spok esma n Officer Ben Tobias. 
"An increased num ber of patrols 
will be stationed in Midto wn and 
downtown," Tobias said. "And there 
will also be a shift of officers to more 
popu lated areas keep ing the roads 
safe." 
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of 
the independent, florida -MM UiC 1 .w« 
alligator and 
announces t he openings for the positions 
Edito r, 
a paid position as head of the Editorial Division 
and as an unpaid member of the Board of Directors 
Managing Editor/Print 
AND 
Managing Editor/Online, Paid positions. Unpaid member of the Board of Directors. 
Summer Semester: May 12,2014 to August 18,2014 
The app lications fo r these p ositions are av ailable at th e rec eption d esk 
at th e en trance of the first f loor of The Alligator Building at 1105 
W. University Ave., each weekday between 10:00 and 4:00 p.m. 
from now until March 14. Please do not call. Further written 
inform ation is av ailable at th e time a n ap plication is p icked up . Please 
allow up to 15 minutes at that time to read information you will need 
for the application process. The application must be returned to 
the same desk by 4:00 pm, March 17. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE 
DEA DLIN E. Interviews and selections by the Board of Directors 
will be held at The Alligator offices in a meeting open to the public 
beginning at 2:00 pm , Ap ril 4. Applicants must be pres ent at that 
meeting to be co nsidered. Applicants m ust b e de gree-seeking c ollege 
or university students. Preference will be given to those who have 
experience at The Alligator. 
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employer 352.371.0215 .•.v.v.v.v.1 PREMIER AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS 
• Insurance Claims 
• Domestic & Foreign Cars 
• l-CAR, ASE- a nd BASF -
• Certified Technicians 
Mention this ad for a stu dent discount ! 
33 SE 1 3TH Rd. GT-motorcars^et 
HEALTH 
INSU RAN CE 
Chip Williams "Stu dents need Health Insura nce. 
Help protect yourself from t he 
rising cost o f medical services. 
You dese rve quality health 
insur ance coverage, and it is 
avail able fo r you. We at Chip 
Willi ams & Associates will helo 
you ac quir e that insura nce." 
WE FIND ANSWERS. 
CHIP W ILLIAMS & ASSOCIATES 
Your Local Agency for 
'FIgtuUl Btue 
Form Number: 1 8533 -599S U Independent Insurance Ag ents 
373-077 5 3669 S.W . 2nd Avenu e 
Sports FRIDAY, MAR CH 14 ,2014 
WW W.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG 
Top-see ded Fl orida beg ins SEC Tournament against Missouri JONATHAN CZUPRYN at the bottom rf... .u.. * , . . ° 
Alligator Staff Writer @jczupryn 
The last time Florida faced off 
ageinst Missouri, Chris Walker 
was getting cheers for just walk­
ing to the scorer's table, Dorian 
Finn ey-S mith had just begun 
the worst shooting month of his 
career and the Gators were only 
halfway through their historic 
Southeastern Conference run. 
But Friday at 1 p.m. when the 
Tige rs (22-10, 9-9 SEC) get their 
seco nd shot at the Gators (29-2, 
18-0 SEC) this season, they will 
see a more levelheaded and ma­
ture Florida squad. Well, that's 
only if coach Billy Donovan's 
message gets across to his play­
ers. 
"The biggest area for us is to 
get emotionally, mentally and 
psyc holo gically past what hap­
pened on Saturday," Donovan 
said. "We've got to get past 
that." 
Just six days after cutting 
down the nets to celebrate their 
best regular season in school his­
tory, the Gators jump back into 
action Friday in their attempt to 
capture their first SEC Tourna­
ment title since 20 07. 
With Florida having already 
shattered the multiple win streak 
re^ ds the 2007 team set, the 
four-man senior class is looking 
to add to its legacy. But Patric 
Young echoed his head coach by 
saying his team must be wary of 
the challenge in front of them — 
not the one down the road. 
'Well, the most important 
thing to start off is we get our 
mind-sets back to that we're back at the bottom of the path, the 
journey to get to that," the senior 
center said. "It's really important 
for us to focus on the moment 
and getting better every single 
day as we've been doing all year 
and not let the moment be bigg er 
than what we're trying to accom ­
plish." 
On the other side of the court, 
Missouri, which defeated Texas 
A&M 91-83 i n double overtime, is 
fighting for a chance jus t to ap pear 
in the N CAA Tournament. But Ti­
gers' coach Frank Haith assured 
the media that his team's focu s is 
on nothing but the Gators. 
It's really important for 
us to focus on the moment 
and getting better every 
single day as we've been 
doing all year and not let 
the moment be bigg er 
than what we're tryin g to 
accomplish." 
Patric Young 
UF cen ter 
"We have got to ha ve a 40 -min -
ute game plan against them," 
Haith said. 
"They're the best team in the 
country. We're the only team in 
the country that has this oppor­
tunity (Friday) so we got to look 
forward to it." 
In Florida's previous match­
up against Missouri, the Gators 
needed Michael Frazier II to hit 
three st raight threes to pull ahead 
late i n the second half. The T igers 
led the G ators by three at the half 
and were previously 15-0 when 
leading at the break this season. 
Because Florida is not only the No. 1 seed in the SEC Tourna­
ment but also the No. 1 team in 
the nation, Don ovan said he ex­
pects every opponent to give its 
best sh ot against the Ga tors in the 
postseason. 
And just because Florida has 
virtually clinched a No. 1 seed in 
the NCA A Tournament doesn't 
mean it will lie down and get 
some rest before the Big Dance. 
The Gators are hungry and eager to show the c ountry that they can 
go 21-0 a gainst the SE C. 
Donovan said what separates 
this squad from others in pro­
gram history is its desire to ac­
complish goals as a group rather 
than individually. 
The unselfishness the Gators 
bring to the table has brought 
them their best regular season 
in school history and it may 
help bring their first tournament championship to Gainesville in 
seven year. 
"These g uys have done a gr eat 
job of serving one another and 
not bei ng totally focused on me , I, 
what I want, what I need," Do no­
van said. 
"I think that's been something 
that's made them special. I think 
when you can get young people 
to do that, that really allows you 
to create something special." 
BAS EBA LL Pa,no Young defends during Florida's 84-65 victory a gainst Kentucky on S aturday'Te O^nntTcT 
ter. You ng a nd UF start S outheastern Confererence Tournament play against Mizz ou today at 1 p.m. 
5?ler returni"g to Gators after 19-game suspension Alligator Staff Writer — hi front of ratrhor Tairl™ cur- ^— • ., — @adam Dpincu s 
. Richie Martin will get one of his best friends 
bacx in the line up on Sun day. 
Harrison Ba der will ma ke his sea son debu t 
in the series finale agains t Arkan sas (8-5) after 
servin g wha t would be a 19-ga me suspe nsion 
stemmi ng from his Feb. 2 arres t after a scooter 
accident and su bsequent DUI investigat ion. 
As fr eshmen, Mart in and Bader power ed Bader in front of catch er Taylor 
Gush ue until the incid ent 
12 days before the seaso n 
open er. But even without 
Bader, the Gators (11-6 ) 
open Sout heas tern Confer ­
ence play hosting the Ra-
zorbacks on the heels of a 
five-game w inning stre ak. 
. ^"I t , s a lesson to be learned. He paid a price 
the top o f Horida 's orde r. Now as sophomore s, for if'" coach Kevin O'Sulli van sai d. "W e look 
they'l l finally be on th e field tog ether aga in. forw ard to ha ving h im bac k." 
Bader, Flor ida's leading hitter with a .312 He Ieft Florid a scr amblin g to complete its 
avera ge a y ear ag o, w as expecte d to hit third outfield- His return, especially at the start of SEC co mpet ition, gives the Gators an offen­
sive boos t and stability in the field. Till no w, 
they have platooned Ryan Larson , Brad en 
Mattson, Zack Po wers and Justin Shafer at the 
comer outfie ld spots. Freshman Buddy Reed 
has starte d all 17 gam es in cen ter field. 
One play er's deb ut coincides with ano ther's 
role change: righ t-hander Karst en Whitson (1-
0,4.72 ERA ) has m oved to the bull pen. 
O'Sulliv an w anted to take p ressure off t he 
former ninth -ove rall pick. W hitson ha s show n 
flashes of h is freshman All-American season, 
and O 'Sulliv an did not call the mov e a de mo­
tion, but instea d a bette r way of furthering him along in his recovery fro m sh oulder sur gery. 
"Having him as a veteran presenc e in t he 
bullpen is going to be awesome," Gushue 
said. "When ever Ka rsten is on the mo und, h e 
is goin g to help our t eam anyway." 
Fresh man r eliever K irby Sne ad added that 
Whit son, in his f ourth year at UF, de mands 
an increas ed focus am ong the staff. F reshmen 
Logan Shore and A.J. Pu k will pitch Game 1 
at 7 p.m. and 3 at 1 p.m., respecti vely while 
sophom ore Eric Hanh old will pitc h on S atur­
day n ight at 7. 
Bader joins a te am that has perse vered in 
SEE BASEBALL, PA GE 13 
Rolan d Thor nqvist and 
the Florida women's 
tenni s team tak e on 
Tenn essee today. Rea d 
the story on page 19. Gators begin home tournament 
The Florida women's golf team begins the 42nd annual SunTrust 
Gators Women's Golf Invitational today at the Mark Bostick Golf 
Course starting at 9 a.m. Gators in t he NBA 
Former UF center Joakim Noah scored 13 points and 
recorded 10 rebounds and nine assists in Chicago's 
111-87 win a gainst Houston on Thursday. 
FRID AY, M ARCH 1 4,2014 • ALLIGATOR, 13 
Be the First to get your 
NCAA Tournament Bracket 
took for it in... M -NM A the independent florida 
March, 17,h BASEBALL. from page 12 
Ryan Jones / Alligator Staff 
Harr ison Bader slides into home during Florida's 1 4-5 win against South Carolina on April 13, 2013. 
Bader missed UF's fi rst 19 games due to a suspension after a scooter accident and DUI investigation. his absence and slowly found its way 
with its pi tching. Sho re has settled in to 
a Friday night spot and relievers h ave 
established b ullpen rol es. 
O'Sullivan said in his post-game 
com ments on Wednesday night that 
the coaching staf f has a greater grasp 
of its roster — one that featured 17 
newcom ers heading into its season 
opener on Va lentine's D ay. 
"I think we're swinging the bats 
better. I thin k we have a better fee l for 
our lineup righties versus leftie s and 
I think we have an idea of what our 
" pitching staff looks like," O'Sullivan 
said follo wing Florida's 13-5 victory 
against Illinois S tate. "You guys have 
seen it. Th ere is a lot of m atchup after 
the fi fth in ning, an d we fe el good with 
those guys down there. Everybody 
GRAND X OPE NIN G 
FORMAGGIO'S 
Stop by and check out our lunch 
specials served fresh doily from 11 to 3 
Bring in th is ad and get a complim entary dessert! 
Gourme t Sand uuiches • Salalds • Soups 
2441 NUJ 43rd St. Phone: 
Suite 12 in Thornebrook Village 352-505-6202 19 W. U niversi ty A ve. 
(on the corner of SW 1st Street) 
352-376-1100 
Scan for 
Ftnd us on . Tap List 
Gain esville 
House of Beer ™ 
buiikker3# 
@GainesviJ ieHOB SOFTBA LL 
Gators travel to Baton Rouge for series against Tigers JORDAN MCPHERSON 
Alligator W riter @J McPh ersonl l26 
After sh utting out Mercer in a midweek 
doubleh eader on Wednesday and capping 
off a s ix-game home stand, Florida is pre­
paring for i ts first Southeastern Conference 
road se ries. 
No. 1 UF (26-1, 2-1 SEC) starts its three-
game s eries against LSU (17-8,1-2 SE C) to­
nigh t at 7 in Baton Rouge, La. 
The Gators have not played the Tigers 
since the 2012 SEC Tournament — Florida 
won 1-0. 
The last ti me Florida played LSU in Ti ger 
Park wa s a two-game series in 2011 . Senior 
Hannah Rogers is the only player still on 
UF's r oster who played during that series. 
Even t hough the majority of the Gators' 
roster has not played LSU , coach Tim Wal­
ton does not believe it will make an impact 
on the t eam's production. 
"I don't know that we really care about 
who we've seen," Walton said. "We're go­
ing to LSU. I t's a tough place to play. It's a 
great team. It's going to be a crazy environ­
ment. We've played some great ballgames 
there." 
LSU ow ns the series against Florida 29-20, including winning 14 of the 21 contests 
in Baton Rouge. 
The Tigers are led on offense by sopho­more shortstop Bianka Bell a nd junior out­
fielder A.J. Andrews. Bell paces LSU with 
a .742 slugging percentage and six home 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Tim W alton looks on during Florida's 8 -0 win ag ainst Indiana on Feb. 22 at Katie S eas-
hole Pressly Stadium. Walton and UF play LSU for the first time since 2012 today. runs, while Andrews boasts a .407 batting 
average and 33 hits. 
But Florida has powerhouses of its own. 
Six of the Gators' starters in the double-
header against the Bears on Wednesday 
have at least a .306 batting average and all 
of them have a batting average of at least 
.369. 
UF will also rely on its pitching staff to 
keep the momentum in its favor. Florida's 
pitchers have a combined 1.15 ERA and 
have struck out 175 batters while giving up 
only 101 hits. 
But the T igers, who are averaging 8.4 hit s 
and 5.7 runs per game, have the ability to 
play against tougher competition. LSU h as 
won two games against ranked opponents 
this season — a 6-3 win against then-No. 3 
Washington and a 5-3 victory against then-
No. 13 Stanford — in addition to going 11 -5 
at home in 2 014. 
"They've got a softball-rich tradi­
tion program, so it's going to be tough 
whether our team's seen them or not seen 
them," Walton said. "They're a good team. 
They've beaten some really g ood teams this 
year and it's going to be tough for us on the 
road. They're going to be ready to go." 
Teammates say Bader has 
worked hard while out does t heir job." 
Braden Mattson said having 
Bader would only help the Gato rs. 
Case y Turgeon said the outfielder 
has w orked his butt off in the batting 
cages . Gu shue named the Bronx, N .t., 
native o ne of Florida's bi ggest pe rson­
alitie s in the dugout. 
Whitson gained a greater app recia ­
tion fo r the game watching 2013 fro m 
the bench. Martin has seen the same 
dedication fro m Bader in his w ay back 
to the f ield. 
"I noticed in die cages he's really 
focused, because I know he's itchi ng 
to get back out there. H e just wa nts to 
kill th e ball every time he gets up to 
the p late and help this team out any 
way h e can," M artin sa id. 
"He's really excited. I'm excited . 
The re st of the team is excited. He's a 
great team guy and everybody loves 
him." 
BUY fT. SELL fT. F IND fT. 37 3-FIND 
Classifieds FRID AY, MARCH 14,2 014 
WWW .ALL IGAT OR.O RG/C LASS IFIED S 
For Rent 
furnishe d 
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIN D. 
SS & VAARE WELCO ME' 
Starting @ $375/BR All incl usive! 
Furnished • Cable • Inter net • Utilities 
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098 
4-23-72-1 
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifull y furnished 
condo o n bu s rou te. Bb all, vb all, poo l, spa and 
fitness room. $425 /room , includes $50 util­
ity allowance per/room . Fall occup ancy. Ellie 
561-361 -960 0 or ebell iveau @sg czkla w.com 
3-27-14-40-1 0 For Rent \ 
mm unfurnished - J flf For Rent 
WMll unfurnished 
MADISO N ON 20th -1 & 2 BR Apts 
Just off SW 20th Ave & 34th St 1BR /$47 5 
2BR /$595. 335-7 066, visit us on Facebook or 
Twitter or at mad isonon20th.com. 4-23-14-For Rent 
unfurnished 
Spacious 1, 2, & 3br s tarting at $475. Many 
floor plans, som e w/ en closed patios or bal­
conies. Italian tile, BRs carpeted. DW, W/D 
hk-ups, verticals, C H/AC. Ne ar bus rte, som e 
walk to UF. Sec 8 accepte d 352-332-7700 
4-23-14-72-2 LAK EWOOD VILLA S Larg e 1,2 & 3BR floorplans starting at $6 65 
Free Hi-Speed internet, washer/dryer, 
fitness center, computer lab, 
swim ming pool etc. M-F 9-6, Sat. 10 -5 
700 S W 62nd Blvd. 352-371-8009 
www.lakewoodvillas.com 
4-23-14 -55-2 Real Estate 
CHARMIN G 3/1 HOUSE NEAR DUCKPOND 
Total re model insid e. Extra large bo nus room 
New appliances, incl W/D . Fro nt po rch, back 
deck. $1000 non-smoking. 352-214-1939 
3-19-14-5-2 
Furnished 2BR /2BA condo in Haile 
Plantation. Was her, dryer, fr ont g arden, bac k 
porch $1100 + utilities/month. Call 352-378-
8710 2-72-14-5-1 
Enhance your e ducational expe rienc e! Stud ent 
Condo 4BR /4BA individual leases. Excellent 
ame nities on bus line, loads of park ing utfls 
incl. Now thru fall. $375 mo. Also 3BR /2BA 
hom e steps to UF campus fall occu panc y. 
Contact Bristol Park Real ty 352-367 -266 9 
4-8-14-20-1 
For Rent 
unfu rnished • Centerpoint -1 220 NW 12 ST 
$460 - 1 BR/ 1 BA - 530 SQ.FT. 
Bike to UF through-tree lined s treets or 
ride the bus located one b lock away! 
No application fee , most pets ok. 
E.F.N. P roperties, 352-371-3636 or 
www.efnproperties.com  
rentals@efnproperties.com 
3-31-14-45-2 
1,2, & 3BRs. Tile i n LR , kitc hen & bathrooms 
& bedrooms. Hardwood floors, cent A/C, ceil­
ing fans, W/D hook-ups. Several locations, 
some walk to UF. Starting at $450/mo. M ust 
See! Call 352-215-7780 4-23-14-72-2 
PET'S PAR ADIS E $390 - $650. No app or pe t fee. 
1 & 2BR, privacy fenc ed. SW. 352-331-2099 
3-31-14-61-2 UPPER WESTSIDE/ 
NANTU CKET W ALK 1 & 2 bd rm L uxury Apts. starting at $850. 
Gran ite counters. FREE Hi-Speed Internet. 
Parking avail. 
Walk ing d istance to UF & Stadium. 
408 NW 14th St. Now leasing for Fall 201 4. 
For info, call 352-872-4644 
www.upperwestsideuf.com 
4-23 -14-54-2 
2BR C OTT AGE $700 Small Pet OK. Call 352-372-1201 or 352-
213-3901 3-27-14-15-2 
FOR RENT 1 B D/BR ARLINGTON 
SQU ARE DOWNTOWN. Looking for a 
quiet room mate in a 2/2. Apt is 
furnished except bedroom. Prefer female. 
Will ne gotiate rent price less than $500 
per mo nth. 617-901-5776. 3-17-14-5-2 Subleases Buy Mountain P roperty AT B ELOW COST!!! 
Stream front Acre age. 2 nicely wooded acres 
with mountain view s, private streamfront & 
springhead. Loaded w ith m ature hardwoods. 
Gentle building site. Private paved roads, 
municipal water, underground power, fiber 
optic, more. Just $19,900. Excellent financ­
ing. Only one,call now 1-866-952-5303 x 
183 3-14-1-5 
Don t get stuck with an extra rent paym ent. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself som e cash 
Call 373-FIND. 
LEAVING FOR THE SUMMER? 
NEED TO SUBLET YOUR ROOM? 
DON'T WAIT 
PLACE YOUR SUBLEASE AD 
TODAY! 
ITS EASY...JUST GO TO 
www.alligator.org/classified Up to 9 acres from $14,900. Mountain cab­
in only $89,900. Access to lake and trout 
stream. Views of the A tlanta skyline. 45 min-
mutes from Northern Atlanta. Priced below 
developer cost! Call 866-260-0905 Ext 17 
3-14-1-5 
Furnishings 
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Ca ll 373-FIND (3 463) to 
place your ad tod ay. 
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today! 
1 BR A PT $395/m o Smi'.Tpetok. Call 352 -372-1201 or 352-213-
3901 4-23-14-72-2 
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/ 
house, 60 second walk to UF. R emodeled 
Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer 
included. Wood floors. With Parking By 
Pnyate Owner. 352-538-2181 Iv message 
4-23-14-72-2 WALK TO UF 
Live in prestigious Jackson 
Square. 2 BR condos avail . 
$1300-$1600 m o. 352-505-5049 
6-16-14-74-2 
8 BLOC KS TO UF 
Spacious 2BR/1BA, island kitchen. 
Plenty of parking! Avai lable Fall T erm 
$700 mo. 352-505-5049 
6-19-14-74-2 
•• ELLIE'S HOUSES •• 
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990 12-5-14-168-2 SPY GLA SS Individual Leases. Fu rniture p kgs 
incl W asher/Dryer & FR EE Hi-Speed 
internet. Rates start at $ 439. Every unit 
an end unit. Mo n-Fri 9-6 Sa t. 10-5 Sun. 1-5 
701 SW 62nd Blvd. 352-373-6330 
www.spyglassapts.com 
4-23-14-55-2 WALK T O CA MPUS - 2BR/1.5BA 
Townhou se. Carport w/ 2 spaces. Covered 
porch, sma ll yard, W/D. Common area fur­
nished. Available June 1st or fall sem ester. 
No pets. $1000/mo. Call 352-665-3378 
3-20-14-7-2 
Available Au gust: Several Cute & Clean 2 , 3, 
& 4 BR vinta ge ho mes ne ar UF. Wo od floor s 
C/HA, W/D. Rents @ $860-$1760/mo. Call/ 
text Anit a 35 2-575-4395 
Details: www.CozyGator.com 3-25-14-10-2 
$500 spac ious 1 BR Apt, private patio w/ 
locking gate , shade trees.squeaky clean 
study/live quietly; 1825 NW 10th St. 352 376 
0080;postj@bellsouth.net 4-23-14-30-2 
HOUSES for Au gust 1 
Cute & clean. Bike to UF. 
Wood floors, C/H&A, W&D provided 
Quiet area s. For m ore info: 
10houses.com 352-316-0154 3-27-14-10-J|| Roommates 
I'VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOU D MUSIC! 
Is your roommate driving you craz y? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Clas sifieds! 
LAKEFRONT HOUSE. 2 m iles east of d own­
town. 3/2, nice kitchen, laun dry, garage, 24' 
x 36' screened room. $400. Quiet neighbor­
hood. Call Dave 352-281-2200 3-20-14-
10-4 BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDIC 
Pillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, 
new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver. 4-23-14-72-6 
BED - FU LL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC 
Pillow-top mattress & bo x. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846 4-23-14-72-6 
a MIC ROFIBER SOFA& LO VESEAT - $400 
Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must 
sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600 352-372-
7490 4-23-14-72-6 
Real Estate 
Sell your house, condo, acre age, mobile 
hom e and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! R each thousands of p ossible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepte d over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHE CK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or plea se call 373-
Find (373-3463) BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP 
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas­
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588 Can 
deliver. 4-23-72-6 
SOFA & LOVESEAT 100% Italian leather. 
Brand new in plastic w/warranty. Retail 
$1800. Sacrifice $700. Call 352-377-9846 
4-23-72-6 
How To Place A Classified Ad: Online W/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified S =^° L TO UF ™ »» B™D NEW 
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or NiJh n P'eCff Include: Headboard, 
S.! 5SSS&3T ChS£SSS 
frf Person: 
Cash, Check , MC , or Visa 
The Alligator O ffice 
1105 W. U niver sity A ve. 
M-F, 8am - 4pm 
By E-mail: classif ieds@ alligato r.org 
By Fax: (352) 376-3015 By Mail: 
Call 352 -373 -FIN D for informa tion. 
Sorry, n o cash by m ail. 
MasterCard, Visa o r checks only. 
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND 
Payment by Visa or Maste rCard O NLY . 
M-F, 8am - 4pm 
6 Furnishings 
7 Comp uters 
8 Electron ics 
9 Bicycles 
10 For Sale When Will Your Ad Run? 
Ads pla ced by 4 p m wi ll appear two pub lica­
tion d ays later . Ads m ay ru n for any len gth 
of tim e and be ca ncelled a t any tim e. So rry, 
but th ere can b e no re fund s or cred its fo r 
canc elled ads . 
11 Motor cycles , Mo peds 
12 Autos 
13 Want ed 
14 Help Wanted 
15 Servi ces Corrections and Cance llations: 
Cancellations: C all 373-FIND M-F,^am - 4pm. No refunds or cradits can be given 
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALL IGATOR I S ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will he extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can he given after placing the ad. Corrections called In 
after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day's paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. 
Health Services 
Typin g Services 
Personals 
Conn ectio ns 
Event Notices 21 Entertainment 
22 Tickets 
23 Rides 
24 Pets 
25 Lost & Found 
I lil^ ^ ^ ^ S ^ S S g s s s s s s ^ — • #on in employment (barring lega l exceptions: h eJL T 'S Vi°'ali°n °'me laW'M persons are here&y informe d that all 
FRIDAY, M ARCH 14,2014 • ALLIGATOR, 15 
Computers For Sale 
Selling comput ers, parts, or repa ir services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Class ifieds. Ca ll 373 -FIN D for mo re 
information. 
COMPUT ER & LAP TOP RE PAIR S 
Network speciali sts 
We buy com puters a nd la ptops 
Working and Non-w orking 
378-40 09, 607 N W 13th S treet 
4-23-14-60-7 
Electronics 
Sell y our old stereo, cell phon e, and more 
in the Electron ics Section of the Alligator 
Classifieds. 373 -FIND 
In the mark et fo r a n ew set of w heels or just 
looking to add a second to that colle ction ? 
Want person alized handle bars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Clas sified s 
For Sale 
•UF Surplus On-Line Auctions# 
are underwa y...bi kes, compu ters, fu rnitu re, 
vehicles & more . All individ uals int erested in 
bidding go to: SURPL US.UF LEDU 3 92-03 70 
4-23-14-7 2-10 Guita rs and M usical Inst ruments 
New, Us ed and F actory Refurbished 
Chec k Us O ut Bef ore Y ou B uy or Sell!! 
Leona rdo's Mu sic, M icanopy, F L 
352-450 -0928 L eona rdos 302.com 
4-23-1 4-72-1 0 
Party Supplies : Com plete line of Ba r 
Suppli es, glassw are, Li quor Pours , Shake rs, 
Profes sional C ooking U tensils. 
R.W. Beaty Co. 1120 N. M ain St., Gainesville 
352-44 8-3433 beat yequ ip@aol.c om 4-23-
14-72 -10 
HORSES & GOA TS 
FOR SALE 
Charli e - 352 -278- 1925 4-23-7 2-10 
Motorcycles, Moped! 
Alliga tor Class ifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on th e road. Show off your bikes, 
scoot ers, and re pair services. Call 37 3-FIND 
to get your cl assif ied in. 
4-23-14 -72-11 
Weekly S UD0KU 
by Linda This tle 
9 6 3 2 
3 7 5 
5 4 1 8 
6 9 5 7 
2 1 6 
9 8 5 
2 7 3 9 
1 8 2 
8 6 4 7 
Place a nu mber i n the empty boxes i n such a way 
that each row across, eac h column d own and 
each small 9 -box squa re con tains all of the 
num bers from one to nine . 
DIFFICULTY THIS WEEK : • 
• Moderate •• Challenging 
• •• HOO BOY! 
© 20 14 K ing Fe ature s Syn d., inc . Motorcycles , Mopeds 
• •••NEW SCOO TERS 4 L ESS**** 
Grea t Scoot ers, Ser vice & Pr ices! 
118 N W 14th Ave, Ste D , 336-1271 
Vespa , Genu ine, GM W, & M ore! NS4L. com 
faceboo k.com/ newsco oters4l ess 
4-23-1 4-72-1 1 
••SCOOTER REPAIR** 
New S cooters 4 Less ha s LO W repair rat es! 
Will repa ir any m ake/m odel. Close to UF! 
Pick-u ps ava il. Cheap o il changes !! 336-1271 
4-23-1 4-72-1 1 
••••Road Rat M otors**** 
Large st Sco oter Sto re in Town! Run by Gat or 
Grad s! New scoote rs sta rting a t $999. 1 -2yr 
warra nties with roadsid e assistance includ ­
ed. 376-627 5 RoadR atMoto rs.com 4-23-
14-72- 11 
Road R at Mo tors offe rs FRE E pickup servic e 
for a ny paid scoot er repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, q uickest turnar ound in town! Will repa ir 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. Road RatM otors .com 4-23-14-72-1 1 
••SCOOTER RENTALS** 
Rent fo r a day , week , mon th or se mester. 
Now rentin g Buddy scooters too! 352-33 6-1271 
www.g ainesv illesco oterren tals.co m 
4-23-1 4-72-1 1 
Camp us Sc ooter s Mobi le Sal es and 
Scoote r Ser vice. We offer free est imates 
on all re pairs and we com e to y ou. 
V\fe also ha ve ne w scoo ters st arting at 
$799. 00 Call us today at 352-263-0 425 
4-23-1 4-72-1 1 
*•• WWW .SWAM PCYC LES.C OM ••• 
Scoo ters & Motor cycles • Sales & Service 
Quality, E xperi ence d, Cer tified Tec hnicians. 
Clos e to Camp us, Low est Prices . 
633 NW 1 3th St. 352-3 73-88 23 
4-23-72 -11 
ccmotorcycletraining.com 
2 days $ 150 week days o r weekends G-ville/ 
Starke 352 -331 -013 1 train on motorcy cles or 
scoote rs Sta te certi fied Co & Tr ainers 3-14-
14-20-11 
MOST WANTED 
Murrell 
Rutledge 
Black Male 
(DOB 10/02/73); 5M1", 
165 lbs, Black Hair, 
Brown Eyes 
Wanted for: 
Violation of Probation 
for Possession of 
Marijuana 
AMC ilUA COUNTY 
CRIME STOPPERS 
Call (3 52) 37 2-STOP Autos Autos 
Unlo ad your lot. Sell your cars throu gh 
Alliga tor Advert ising for cheap. 373- FIND 
or pl ace your ad onlin e at www.a lligator .org/ 
classif ieds 
We B uy Junk Cars • •• 
•Trucks, Vans - Titled only# 
Call KT 352- 281-99 80 or 352 -215- 3191 
4-23 -72-1 2 
96 Ol ds Achieva $1000 
95 For d Explo rer $150 0 
93 Pat hfind er $15 00 
92 Toyota Camry $1999 
352-3 38-19 99 4-23-72- 12 
91 Ca price $130 0. 
00 Intre pid $ 1500 
98 Intre pid $ 1999 
01 Tauru s $1999 
352-3 38-19 99 4-23-7 2-12 
97 Dod ge Van $ 900 
97 Bl azer $299 9 
00 Jee p Ch erokee $ 1999 
99 Fo rd Ex plorer $2 999 
352-3 38-19 99 4-23-72-12 
SUN C ITY AU TO SA LES 
$0 DOW N!!! 
FILE Y OUR T AXES H ERE 
AND DRIV E HOM E TODAY 
352-3 38-19 99 4-23 -72-1 2 
SUN C ITY AU TO SA LES 
ALL VE HICL ES $ 0 DOW N 
NO CR EDIT CHE CK!!! 
NO EM PLOY MEN T CHEC K 
352- 338- 1999 4-23-7 2-12 
SUN RISE AUT O SAL ES 
DOW N PAYM ENT DEFERR ED 
FILE Y OUR T AXES H ERE 
AND D RIVE HOM E TODAY 
352-3 75-90 90 4-23 -72-1 2 
SUN RISE AU TO REN TALS 
ALL VE HICL ES 201 4 
3630 N. M AIN S TREET 
www.c arrent alsunr ise.co m 
352-3 75-90 90 ^4-23-72- 12 
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!! 
ANY C ONDI TION -RUN NING OR NOT!!! 
FREE TOWIN G & SAME DAY PI CK-UP 
NO TITL E NEEDED. Call Steve 352-7 71-6191 
4-23- 14-7 2-12 1995 Custo m Z-28 Conv ertib le Cama ro, 
136,5 00 miles, 5.7 V8,6 -spe ed man ual trans ­
missi on. Excellent cond ition. Custom body 
work, hood, body kit all flat black. Priced 
below book value at $4,7 00. 352-4 94-57 39 
3-14-5 -12 
SUNR ISE AUTO SA LES 
DOW N PAYMENT DEF ERR ED 
NO CR EDIT CHECK S!!! 
NO EM PLOYM ENT CH ECK 
352-3 75-90 90 4-23 -31-1 2 
••••HEADLINERS SAGGING?***-* 
••POWER WINDO WS D ONT W ORK?** 
Call or google Steve's He adlin ers 
352-2 26-19 73. On s ite a vaila ble. 4-23- 31-
12 
Wanted 
This newsp aper assum es no respo nsibili ty 
for in jury or loss arising from contacts made 
throu gh advertisi ng. We sugge st that any 
reade r who re sponds to a dver tising use cau­
tion and inve stigate the sin cerity o f the adv er­
tiser befo re giving out pers onal inform ation 
or arra nging m eetings or inv estin g mon ey. 
St. Froncis House 
St. Fran cis House is a hom eless shelt er 
and so up kitchen lo cated in do wnto wn 
Gaine sville, and we are lo oking for h elp 
from volu nteers li ke yo u. 
St. Franc is House de pend s on mo neta ry 
suppo rt from ind ividu al dono rs and 
commu nity busine sses in orde r to h elp feed 
the homele ss and the hungr y. 
If yo u are intere sted in volunt eering , 
pleas e contact S teph anie B reval 
at (352) 37 8-90 79 or 
sfhco or@s tfranc is.cfc oxma il.com 
To make a do nation by m ail, 
pleas e send ch ecks paya ble to 
St. Franci s Hou se 
P.O. Box 124 91 
Gainesv ille, FL 3 2604 
GOLD • GEMS • ETC 
Free A ppraisals • Top Cas h or T rade 
40 years in Busin ess 
OZZIE 35 2-318 -4009 
4-23-7 2-13 2J 
SCMBBIB g V—* BRAND 1 ' BRAND 
SCRAB BLE' is a trademark of Hasb ro in the US and Canada. ©2014 H asbro. Distributed by 
Tribune Content Agenc y. LLC.A II rights reserved. 
••••••• 
m m ® 0 ® @ 0 
••••••• 
••••••• 
••••••• Triple 
Word Sc ore RAC K 1 
RACK 2 i. -
2nd Letter 
Double RACK 3 
RACK 4 
PAR SCORE 155-165 
BEST SC ORE 246 FOUR RAC K TOTAL 
TIME LIM IT: 20 MIN = 
DIRECTI ONS; Make a 2- to 7-let ter word from the letters in each row. Add 
points of each word, using s corin g directio ns at right. Finally 7-letter words get 50-
poin t bonus. "Blanks" used as any letter have no point value All the words 
are in the Official SCRABBLE* Playe rs Dictionary, 4th Edition . SOLUTION TOM ORROW 
For more information on tournament and clubs, email NASPA - North American SCR ABBLE 
Players Association info@scrabbleplayers.org . Visit our website • www.scrab bleplayers .orgN ? 
For puzzle inquiries contact scrgrams@gmail.com . 
16, ALLIGATOR • FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 2014 
Wante d Help Wanted 
c UF GRAD PAYS MO RE 
for go ld jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, di amo nds, 
guitars, e tc. Top $$$. Get my offer bef ore yo u 
sell! Call Jim 376-80 90 or 222-809 0 
4-23-72-13 
The Americ an Cancer S ociety 
Road to Re covery Volunteers Ne eded ! 
VOLU NTEE R DRIVER S NEE DED 
to transp ort can cer patients to treatm ent. 
Flexible schedule. 
Train ing a nd liability insurance prov ided. 
Please call 
352-240 -5062 if intere sted. 
CASH PAID $3 00 AN D UP !!! 
ANY CONDI TION-R UNNIN G OR NO T!!! 
FREE T OWIN G & SAM E DAY PICK-UP 
NO TITLE NEEDE D CALL 352-7 71-61 91 
4-23 -14-7 2-13 
VOL UNT EER S NEEDE D 
I AM BLIN D & WO ULD LIKE HEL P WIT H: 
•Rides to churc h: Mas s at Queen of Peace. 
•Learning to rake k nit hats to send to H aiti & 
othe r plac es. Call 352- 219-69 48 
3-28 -14-7 2-13 
Help Wan ted Stud ents in Account ing, Avia tion, Busin ess/ 
Sales and compute r science need ed for 
variou s posit ions. Flexib le sche dules and 
comp etitive pay. J oin ou r team ! Leam more 
at www.g leim.co m/emp loymen t 4-23 -14-
72-1 4 
SBSG i s a fi nancial tra nscription compa ny 
offerin g part-t ime work. 
- Create y our ow n sched ule 
- Competiti ve Prod uction -Base d Pay 
- Clos e to ca mpus ! 
- Mus t be a ble to t ouch-type 65wpm 
Apply Online : www.s bsgrp. com 12-3-1 4-
151-1 4 
DOM INO" S HIRIN G 
Deliv ery Experts & Assista nt Mana gers & 
Futu re Manag ers. Driver s earn betw een $14-
$17 p er hour. G Ms earn 4 0K-5 0K+. Apply at 
gatord omino s.com 4-23 -14-7 0-14 
Summe r Jobs 
$2400 fo r 8 w eeks 
Co-ed ca mp 
Room a nd Board in cluded 
Get P aid to Play! 
The F lorida Elks Youth C amp (FEY C) needs 
male and female camp c ouns elors ages 18 
and u p. FEY C is a n over-nig ht camp lo cated 
in Umat illa, FL. The camp runs June 9th -
Augu st 2nd . Please c ontac t Kry s Ra gland at 
352 455-4 267 or Krys@ feyc.or g. 4-23-1 4-
64-1 4 
This news pape r assume s no respon sibility 
for injury or loss arising from conta cts m ade 
through advertisin g. We suggest that any 
reader who res ponds to advertisin g use c au­
tion a nd inve stigate the sincer ity of the adver ­
tiser befo re giving out persona l informa tion 
or arr anging me etings o r investing mon ey. Food Scienc e and Hum an Nutrit ion at the 
University of Florida is conduc ting a re­
search study for wom en 20-40 yo on birth 
control pills. Com pens ation g iven. For detail s 
call Luisa Rios -Avil a at 392-19 91 Ext 266. 
4-23-14- 45-14 
Certified Dental Assistant, x-rays, chart­
ing, expan ded duties, enthusi astic, effi­
cient, must have compute r skills, schedule 
appointm ents,De ntrix know ledge Call 352-
331-8683 epde ntistr y@liv e.com 3-14-14 -
8-14 
Sun Country S ports is hiring for sum mer! 
Camp Coun selor s, Sw im, Gym nastics, 
Office, R ockw all, C heer, D ance, 
Clean/Ma int., Dr ivers . Apply today at 
sunco untrys ports. com/j obs.h tml! 
3-14-14-5-1 4 
WUN is a fin ancia l welln ess compa ny 
offering finan cial fr eedom. 
• competitive c omp ensa tion pl an 
• luxury & vac ation b onuses 
• create own s ched ule 
• all natural en ergy d rinks 
• must be 18 
Please c ontac t Cresh a at 352-26 0-5724 for 
more info. 3-14 -5-14 
Weekly SUDOKU 
Answer 
1 9 8 6 5 4 3 2 7 
3 6 2 9 8 7 1 4 5 
7 5 4 3 1 2 8 6 9 
4 8 6 2 9 5 7 1 3 
.5 2 7 1 4 3 9 8 6 
9 1 3 7 6 8 2 5 4 
2 7 5 4 3 1 6 9 8-
6 4 1 8 7 9 5 3 2 
8 3 9 5 2 6 4 7 1 
F0OP PRIh'KS MUSIC FRIENPS 
first Baptist Clnmh 
Sunday? Worship 8:30 + 11:00 
Bible Study 9:30 
Wednesday: Dinner 5: 30 
Bible Study + Activities 0:30 
14105 NW 39th Ave. 
3 miles II est of /- 75 
u n a •.jbcgninesviHe. net 
Monteodia Baptist Church 
Deformed A Evangelical 
Sunday W orship 1 Dun A Opm 
9420North County Hood 225 
15 minutes from I F rumpus 
find out more on laeelmok nun nvflsisT 
Unitarian Universalis! 
Fellowship 
IMAGINE a religion that endmires 
numy different beliefs... including 
yours. 
Join us on Sunday at HAM 
I nifarian I niversalisl Fellowship 
4225 AH 34th Street 
hformation: 
371-100)9 or uufg.org FUN SUM MER JOB ON UF C AMP US 
Seeking enthu siastic and outgoing UF stu­
dents to help with Gator Dining mea l plan 
sales from May - August. Approx . 20 hrs 
a week, $10/h r plus cash bonuse s, flexib le 
hours and even ings plus free mea ls! Must 
enjoy inter actin g with others in a profe ssional 
man ner and have a po sitive at titude. Retail, 
custome r service or volunteer e xper ience is 
a plus. Ap ply on line a t www.ga tordinin g.com 
3-14 -4-14 
DATA ENTR Y/CLE RICAL PO SITION 
FUL L OR PART TIM E 
Plea se apply i n pers on 
Institute of Vet erinary Spec 
3603 NW 98th St. Sui te A 3-19-5 -14 
Bench Scien tist: Self-mot ivated individual 
with stron g problem-s olving skills to work in 
sam ple testin g and production. Knowled ge 
of ELISA metho dolog y and basic immunol­
ogy is desir able. Basi c laboratory skills , at­
tention to detail, and ability to mana ge m ul­
tiple projects requir ed. B. S. in scientifi c field 
preferred; laborato ry experience may be 
subs titute d. To apply, sen d resume t o: 
d.mil ler@ elisa- tek.c om 3-18-1 4-5-14 
PHOT OGRA PHY: 
Looking for peop le to photogra ph apart­
ment exteriors. N eed camera, c ar & Inte rnet. 
E-mail resum e to carissaw @pi-ei.c om for 
info. Tempor ary contrac t; flexible schedule' 
3-18 -14-5 -14 
UF Hillel 
Friday Night 7:30 pm 
Services it Dinner 
Reform Conservative Orthodox-
Across from The Stadium 
wuu\uflulle\.org 
ILIC 
St. Augustine Church 
Mass Times: 
Sat. 5:30pm 
Sun: 'him. 11:30. 1:30 
(S/xuush) 5:30pm. 7:30ftm 
Daily: M-FNoon, 5:30pm 
Confession: M-F 4:30pm-5:20pm 
www.ealholicgalors.org 
University Citv Church of 
Christ 
Gators for Christ campus ministry 
college group meets at I Diversity 
City church on 
Sundays at 9am and Wednesdays 
at 7pm - practical appliiiition from 
Gods wonl. plus service projects, 
large group events, free meals, and 
much more... 
(directions and events calendar at 
www.gatorsfarchiist.org) 
For rides please call: 
352-514-S26I Trinity United 
Methodist Church 
New Modem Hbrslup - I Dun 
( ontern/iorary - lied at 6:35pm 
( offer Talk for college age + 
young adults on Sundays at noon 
. Dlditional services: 
Sundays at S: 15, 9:40 + Ham 
Cator VVesle v Center 
United Methodist Campus 
Vlin. 
www.gxiforwesley.com 
Worship- Sundays @ Ham 
Free Lunch @ 12:15pm 
liible Study Wednesday @ 7pm 
1380 W. I Diversity . Ave. Electro nic Cigarett e Com pany lookin g for 
Student 15-20 hour s/we ek. Please email 
resum e with one p arag raph explainin g your 
experi ence with e-cig s to info@ grabb agco. 
com. 3-18-5-14 
Five S tar Pizza is now h iring delive ry 
driver s. Dayshifts and nig htshifts av ailab le. 
Fast pac ed env ironme nt with full an d 
part tim e position s ava ilable . Mus t have 
reliab le car and g reat c ustomer servi ce 
attitud e. Apply in p erson at 210 S W2nd 
Ave 3-18-5-1 4 
Wing Zo ne is N ow Hiri ng! 
Deliver y Drivers a nd Asst . Mana gers 
Min. 2 Years Exp. for As st. M anage rs 
Print Applic ation On line 
www.win gzone.co m 3-18 -14-5 -14 
DATA ENTRY/CL ERICAL POS ITION 
Full or p art time 
Pleas e apply in p erson 
Institu te of Veterinary Spec 
3603 N W 98th St S uite A 3-19- 5-14 
Experi enced OTR Flatbed Drive rs earn 
50 up to 55 cpm loaded . $100 0 sign on to 
Qualifie d drivers. Home mos t weeke nds. 
Call: 84 3-266-37 31 / www. bulldo ghiwa y.com 
EOE 3-14-1-1 4 
I'VE H AD IT WI TH YOUR LOU D MU SIC! 
Is you r roommate d riving you crazy? Fin d a 
replac ement in the Alliga tor C lassi fieds ! 
Zion Fv. Lutheran Church 
1700.AW34th SL 
Gainesville. FL 32653 
I'hone: 352-376-9940 
Worship: Sunday, 10:30 a..m. 
Ion are alums welcome.' 
Qiajiel of die Incarnation 
The FpiscoGafors Welcome You'. 
Communion: 5:30pm Sun. Jollowetl 
by a free home cooked meal for 
students 1552 W University Ave 
across from Library West. 
myrffln 
First Presbyterian Church 
Trajectory 
I allege Bible Study 
Weilnesday 7:30 at Firsterian 
('hatch Gainesville 
College Cafe 
Free Food After 10:50am Worship 
KM) SW 3rd St. 
Contact Scott Stuart 
coliege@lstfxc.org 
• 
IP ?; 4 ft 1 
For information on advertising in die 
Worship Guide, contact Kristin Vfumnui, 
Alligator Advertising 
352.376.4482 
FRIDAY, MA RCH 14, 2014 • ALLIGATOR }17 
Help W anted Services 
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDE D NOW! Learn 
to drive for US Xp ress! Earn $ 700 per week! 
No experience need ed! Loca l CD L Tra ining . 
Job ready in 15 days! 1-88 8-36 8-19 64 
3-14-1-14 
CDL-A Team Owner Operato rs: $2,50 0 
Lease Incentive! Team Dedica ted Routes. 
Great Revenue & Regular Wee kly Hom e 
Time! 888-486-594 6 NFI Indu strie s nfipa rt-
ners.com 3-14-1-14 
Services 
Do you have a busin ess that 
provides a service? Plac e you r 
ad in the Services Section of 
the A lligator Classifieds for as 
little as $2.50 pe r day. Call us 
at 373-FIND. 
BRAND GRAMS SO LUTI ON 
B3 Ei Nl Z10 E1 N1 III RACK 1 = 104 
Si Ti_ Ai Ti Lh V* RACK 2 = 60 
Ai EE | C3 Jl F ^ RACK 3 = 69 
w] Oi G2 RACK 4 = 13 
PAR SCO RE 155-165 TOTAL 246 
SCR ABBL E" is a trad ema rk of Hasb ro in the U S and C anada. ©2014 H asbro. 
Distribute d by Tribu ne Co ntent Agenc y. LLC All rights rese rved 
it U MB • by D avid L. Hoyt 3-14-14 
CLUE 
1. Club carrier 
5. Land units 
6. Fraudulent 
7. Clobbered 
CLUE ACROSS 
DOWN 
1. Allegation 
2. Sturdy, reliable 
3. Wisdom 
4. Helpful example ANSWER 
DED AIC 
RE CA S 
B0UGS 
ENE TBA 
ANSWER 
AHRGCE 
BALED UR 
THSI GIN 
N0SELS 
CLUE: The 
BONUS Bridg e was completed in 1937. 
l-lr-Mi/ ioUw ComPlete the crossword puzzle by looking a t the clues and 
nDW VU y\a\ unsc ramb ling t he answ ers. When the puz zle is com plete, 
1 unscramble th e circled letters to solve the E30NU5. 
neousppo-g -qq a-QZ ^4><]L ©2014Trixjne Content Agency LLC 
sn6og-V9 saioy-yg 3\PP& D-Vl :Sei3AV3Ny & Hoyt Designs. AIfl®Lved. 
Send comm ents t o TMS - 435 N. Michig an Ave., Suite 14 00, Chicago, II I. 60611 or DLHoyt@ao l.com . Services Health Services [ill Events / Notices 
Want to be a CNA, phleboto mist or pharm 
tech? Expres s Train ing o ffers course s, day s, 
eve, weeke nd. All classes live, no videos. 
Call 352-33 8-1193 or 
expre sstra ining servi ces.c om 4-23-1 4-72-1 5 
PERS ONAL T RAINING 30 0 
Perso nal an d Group Traini ng 
Flexible S ched uling Exclusive Fa cility 
Call for a free w orkout 
339-2199 
4-23- 72-15 
NEED A LAWYER? Siddiq uiLeg al.com 
Priva te Exp erien ced Affo rdab le 4-23-72 -15 
Wan t to be a C NA? Don't w ant t o wai t? 
Expre ss Trainin g Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be complete d in one 
weeke nd. Perfe ct for bus y colleg e students . 
www. expre sstrai nings ervice s.com /ww 4-23-
14-67 -15 NUR SING CAREE RS begin here - Get 
traine d in mont hs, n ot yea rs. Small clas ses, 
no waiting list. Finan cial aid for qualified 
studen ts. Apply now at Centura Institute 
Orlando ( 888)22 0-3219 3-14- 1-15 
AIRLI NE CAR EERS begin here - Get FAA 
appr oved Aviat ion Mainte nance Technician 
trainin g. Ho using and Fi nanc ial Aid for quali ­
fied students. Job placem ent assistance. 
CALL Av iation Ins titute o f Main tenance 877-
741- 9260 www .FixJ ets.c om 3-14-1-15 
Health Services Personals 
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING 
Alac hua Coun ty Hea lth Dep t. Call 
334-7960 for app't (option al $20 fee) 
THE TR UE YO U! 
Lose 8-15 p ounds in 4 w eeks 
Only $119! 
Gain musc le whi le you l ose fat 
Groups formin g now. 33 9-2199 
4-23-72 -16 
ACLS BL S PA LS CPR/FA 
Amer ican Hear t Assoc. cert issued. 
Conve nient schedu ling. Teachin g gators for 
over 1 5 year s. Safetyn et of Florida. Call u s 
today (800 )319 -570 8 6-10-14 -40-16 HIV ANTIBODY TESTING 
Alach ua Cou nty Hea lth Dept. Call 
334-796 0 for ap p't (optiona l $20 fee) 
•Family Chiropractic* Sinc e 1977. Two blo cks from U .F. 
373-70 70 
4-23 -72-18 
Connections 
Want to make a c onne ction? 
Place your ad h ere to look for s omeone to 
share a common int erestwith or for y our true 
love 
Los Angeles Tim es Daily Crossword Puzzle 
Edited by R ich Norris an d Joyce Nichols Lewis 
ACROSS 
1 Set co unt 
5 Ally of S un 
11 Rel ocation a id 
14 Unre strainedly 
15 Div ulges 
16 A s per 
17 Lin er w ith Intel 
inside? 
19 On e may be . 
flipped 
20 W hen man y night 
visio ns occ ur? 
21 Re vealing ga rb 
22 Ny lon no table ? 
25 Ba g 
29 Hig h mou ntain 
30 "Yi kes!" 
31 Lo ck 
34 "Ger ontio n" 
poefs mo nogr am 
37 Ge t one 's kicks in 
a pa inful way? 
41 Rus h 
participants p rize 
42 Fiel ds 
43 Giv e for a while 
44 Music -licensing 
org. 
45 Mes hes 
47 Prin cipal plant? 
53 Pla ygro und 
bouncer 
54 Lik e some 
important lette rs 
59 Pay stub? 
60 Surp rise the 
neighborhoo d? 
62 Ta ke ho me 
63 Univ ersity of 
Minnesota 
mascot Goi dy 
64 Uns igned, brie fly 
65 Priv ate 
66 Profe ssorial du ds 
67 Nume rous 
DOWN 
1 Sc rape 
2 Mideast VIP 
3 sci 
4 Tak e fro m the to p 
5 Dre ss 
6 '20s -'30s skat ing 
gold me dalis t 
7 Pers onal answ er 
8 "My N ame is 
Lev": Ch aim 
Potok novel 
9" can't" 10 5 7-Dow n 
measu re 
11 Bo na fide 
12 D ress style 
13 F loor 
18 Pool lead-in 
21 T ourist 's guide 
23 Secur e at the dock 
24 Oth erwise 
25 Hi ghest power? 
26 Pe tri dish filler 
27 V acation 
destination 
28 Ch emica l suffix 
31 D igital 
temperature 
gaug e? 
32 Ge netic 
messe nger 
33 U nexpect ed 
fictional v isitors 
34 Y ou, to a Friend 
35 F unctio n in 39-
Dow n 
36 S craps 
38" Said" : Neil 
Diamo nd hit 
39 It involves 
angle s, for short 
40 35 mm came ra 
optio n 
44 Mar athon unit: 
Abbr . 45 Tr ains may stop 
at th em 
46 Sm ooth- talkin g 
47 C hoph ouse 
choice 
48 T in Man ac tor 
Jack 
49 M ake merry 
50 B readth 
51 "W ag th e Dog-
actress 
52 T icked 55 Hoax 
56 New York 
colle ge w ith a 
masc ot na med 
Killian 
57 Coll . major 
58 Fashio n lette rs 
60 York , for on e: 
Abbr. 
61 Do-i t-
yourselfer's 
concern 
ANS WER TO PR EVIOU S PU ZZLE: 
D A R T 
1 K E A 
N 1 L L A 
E M 1 L Y 
O B E Y E 
N O D 
xworde ditor@ aol.com 03/14/14 
1 2 3 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 
14 
1 16 
17 18 19 
20 21 
22 23 24 
2b 26 27 28 29 
30 31 32 33 31 36 
37 38 39 40 
41 42 43 
44 45 46 
47 48 49 50 51 52 
53 , 55 58 
39 _ 60 61 
62 63 
1 64 
6b 66 6/ 
By M arti DuGuay-C arpente r 
(c)2014 Tribu ne Content Age ncy, LL C 03/14/14 ATTE NTIO N VIAGRA US ERS 
Help improv e your stamina , drive, 
and e ndura nce wi th EverGen e. 
100% natural . Call for FR EE bot tle. 
NO PRES CRIPT ION NEED ED! 888-586-
1703 3-14-1 -16 
Devoted , affectionate profe ssion al coup le 
will he lp you , uncondition ally love & be h ands 
on wi th your bab y; main tain con tact. Allo wed 
expenses paid. Doug & Liz 800- 918- 4773 .-
Susan Stockma n-FL#03 42521 3-14-1-16 IS YOUR BUSINESS, C LUB OR 
ORGANIZ ATION HAVING A N EV ENT ? 
DO YO U HAVE A SPECIAL 
ANNOUN CEMENT ? PLA CE YOUR,AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTI CEDIb 
Entertainment 
Get the party start ed! Place your 
Enterta inment classified toda y to get pg£?ile 
up and about. C all 373-F IND. 
• Rocky Creek P aintball • 
In Gainesvi lle • It's a Bla st! 
Call 371-2 092 
4-23-1 4-72-2 1 
£ Rides 
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classi fieds to find trip arran gem ents or 
show o ff your bus an d shuttle servi ce. 373-
FIND 
Pets 
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room ­
mate...p ets. Find or adve rtise your pets or 
pet pr oduc ts he re in the P ets sectio n of the 
Alligator. 
Lost & Found 
Finders Keepers? i f you f ind somethin g, you 
can pla ce a FREE F OUND AD in our lost & 
found secti on. Be kind to some one w ho's lost 
what you 've found . Call 373- FIND . 
PUT IT IN THE AL LIGAT OR! 
• LOC AL -»J 
• TAR GETED 
• EFFECTIVE 
• ECO NOM ICAL 
Reac h over 50,0 00 re aders 
each publication day. 
Smoking Causes 
Immediate 
Damage 
to Your B ody. 
You Can Quit. 
For Free Help Call 
1-800-QUIT-NOW. 
V^,Osparto>snle>t • 
Health «eS human Servlur, 
Ctt J- f 4- |glj^ 
vosinsi-antfaiwnflon . 
fCOCTict 
18, ALLIGATOR • FRIDAY, M ARCH 14,2014 
a 
MEN'S GOLF 
Coach returning to alma 
mate r for tournament Florida aiming for top SEC 
East teams in home matches 
LAYNEWEiTZEL 
Alligator Writer @layn ejweitz el 
In a way, Buddy Alexander is re­
turning ho me again . 
Florida has put its w heels d own in 
Statesboro, Ga., for die th ree-day Ch ris 
Schenkel Invita tional at the p ar-72 For ­
est H eights C ountry Q ub course. 
Statesboro is the home of coach 
Alexander's old sto mping grounds as 
an alumnus of an d former player and 
coach at Ge orgia Sou thern. Th e Eag les 
are the host team of th e tournament. 
Alexander graduated from the 
university in 1975 with a bachelor's 
degree in recre ation and in 1980 with 
a master's in educational administra­
tion. Athle ticall y, he received All-
America honors in 1974 an d 19 75 and 
coac hed the Eagles to a seventh-place 
finish in the NCA A Tournament in 
1980 — their highest place in his four 
years c oaching at the s chool. 
But H orida has sig ned Alexander's 
paychecks f or 26 yea rs, an d he is a ll in 
with the Ga tors this w eekend. 
UF will look to build upon its 
ninth-place finish a week ago at the 
USF In vitational. It i s up against a 14 -
team field that feature s No. 8 UCF, N o. 
11 Virg inia and No. 1 3 UAB. Florida 
GYMNASTICS has met UCF a nd UAB two times this 
season, mos t recently a t its h ome Sun­
Trust Ga tor In vitational in February. 
The Gators are sending out Victor 
Tarnstrom, Richard Donegan, Ryan 
Orr, Eric Bank s and J.D . Tomli nson for 
the five -man lineup. Santiago Gavino 
will com pete as an individual. 
"We have the same six guys com­
peting that we did at Lake Jovi ta, with 
one play ing as an individual," Alex­
ander said in a release. "Hopefully, 
the las t two rounds at Jovit a will carry 
into th is eve nt." 
Horida finished fourth at the tour­
nament last year with a total score of 
873 (+9). Ban ks w as the lowest score r 
for th e Gator s, sho oting 216 (E) in thre e 
rounds and tying for 11t h pla ce. 
Tom linso n was the next best Hori­
da finis her, t ying for 16t h pla ce w ith a 
score of 219 (+3). 
Play will begin at 8 a.m. Frida y 
with the first 18 hol es. Ho rida is pair ed 
with No. 15 Texas and Southeastern 
Conference foe No. 29 Kentuck y for 
the first round. The next 36 h oles will 
follo w on S aturday and Sunday. 
"Friday will be important for us," 
Alexander said. "It's a field that we 
can be competitive with and I have a 
good fe eling g oing in." UF 5-0 in Gainesville BRUNEE MCCOY 
Alligator Writer @TheR eporter Giii 
The No. 17 Gators (6-5, 
1-1 Southeastern Conference) 
look to extend their 5-0 home 
record as they take on two 
top SEC East opponents this 
weekend. 
The Gators have played 
better and more comfortably 
at home this season — all five 
of the team's losses coming on 
the road. 
Florida will face No. 14 
Tennessee on Friday at 5 p.m. 
and No. 16 Georgia Sunday 
at 1 p.m. at the Ring Tennis 
Complex. 
Coming off of a tough win 
against South Carolina on 
Sunday, Horida has had time 
to strengthen areas where 
they need work, like doubles 
matches. 
In the past 11 matches, the 
team has given up the d oubles 
point six times. 
Chit of those six times, 
they've come back to w in only 
twice. There's been a competitive 
history between Horida and 
Tennessee. 
Last year, the Gators beat 
the Volunteers 4-3 i n the reg­
ular season but lost to them to 
end their rim in the SEC Tour­
nament in the semifinals. 
"Georgia is tough any 
way you slice it. They've 
got a great program." 
Bryan Shelton 
UF co ach 
"We know that tomorrow 
night, Tennessee is a quality 
opponent," coach Bryan Shel­
ton said. 
"We're going to have our 
hands full again. We know 
them very well, and they 
know us, too." . 
As for the Bulldogs, the 
Gators defeated them earlier 
this se ason o n Feb . 15 in H ous­
ton at the ITA National Men's 
Team Indoors. Sophomore 
Gordon Watson clinched the 
match to pull off t he 4-2 u pset. 
That was Horida's only road win this s eason. 
"Georgia is tough any way 
you slice it," Shelton said. 
"They've got a great program. 
[UG A coac h Ma nny Diaz] does 
a good job of getting those 
guys ready to compete." 
These two opponents were 
also the o nly two teams to fin­
ish a head of H orida in the SE C 
East last s eason. 
Although UF faces two 
tough opponents, they have 
momentum. Horida is coming 
off a 4-2 come-from-behind 
win against South Carolina on 
Sunday. 
The Gators will have to 
start the match off fighting on 
Friday. 
With only two come-from-
behind wins this season, they 
can't afford to fall behind 
against these two top-20 op­
ponents. 
"We're going to have to 
play aggressive tennis — kind 
of first-strike tennis," Shelton 
said. 
"We know we're going to 
have to go out there and play 
to win because they're not go­
ing to give it to us." 
Boyce , Sloan hope to perform well in front of families rkl A A A EfifCAA. HERNANDEZ 
Alligator W riter @EricaAlyssa 
For tonight's meet, the Gators 
travel to Columbia, Mo., for the 
first time since the Tigers joined 
the Southeastern Conference in 
2012. 
Missouri (6-6, 0-5 SEC ) hosts 
No. 3 Florida (8-1, 5-1 SEC) in 
the last meet of the 2014 regu­
lar season. For Horida, the trip 
is the last chance to prepare 
for the grueling postseason the 
team looks forward to all year 
long. 
"We're looking at this as an 
awesome opportunity, we've 
never been to Missouri before," 
coach Rhonda Faehn said. 
"We're looking to be able to put 
cviSrJ lin eups together exactly as 
we'd like for the SEC Confer­
ence Championship. 
"So we feel like we're getting 
the closest w e've been to it as far 
as order and as far as the lineup 
— w hat it's going to be." 
Freshman Claire Boyce has 
been in the floor and beam 
lineup for every regular-season 
m€et so far, and Faehn said her 
spot in both events' postseason 
lineups is safe. 
"I had Claire step into the 
leadoff position there, and 
Claire is such a calm and ag­
gressive competitor and I know 
that she has tremendous scor­
ing potential, 9.90 and above 
ei£ry single time she steps out," 
Faehln said. "She should be able to score that no matter if she 
goes first or last. Wherever she 
goes in the lineup, she can carry 
that score because she is that 
good." 
Boyce has scored a 9.90 or 
better in her last three beam 
performances, with her season 
and career high of 9.925 coming 
on Feb. 28 against Alabama. 
"I'm really striving to get 
those no wobble beam days; 
I've been getting a lot more of 
those," Boyce said. "I'm just 
working on my confidence and 
it helps with consistency in the 
end." 
Born and raised in Missouri, 
Boyce estimates she will have 
about 50 family and friends on 
hand to watch her likely lead off 
Florida's beam effort. 
Bridget Sloan, from the 
nearby state of Indiana, will 
also have about 30 family and 
friends in the stands. Florida's 
meet against Kentucky on Feb. 
7 was the last time Sloan's fam­
ily attended an UF away meet. 
It also happened to meet the 
first time she scored a perfect 10 
on beam. 
"My mom's side (of the fam­
ily) is all from Missouri, so we 
have a ton of family coming," 
Sloan said. 
"When they come to away 
meets it's awesome to have 
them, especially when they 
were at Kentucky, to see me get 
a 10 on beam. That made it 10 
times more special." . Emil y Cochrane / Alligator Staff 
Clair e Boyce co mpetes on the balance beam during UF's win a gainst LSU on Feb. 21 in the O'Connell Center. 
Boyce's li neup s pot is secure as she prepares to compete in front of her fam ily in Mi ssouri t oday at 7:30 p.m. 
ir,-r v .• ? i if = •? r i > . - ?r 
FRIDAY , MARC H 14,20 14 • A LLIGATOR 19 
Florida looking to 
sweep NCAA Indoors' LAWRENCE LAGUNA 
Alligat or W riter @La guna Lawrenc e 
Only two teams — Arizona 
State in 2008 and LSU i n 2004 
— hav e ente red the N CAA In­
door Champ ionsh ips wi th bo th 
the men's and wom en's teams 
ranke d No. 1 and won both 
titles. 
Today , the Gators look to 
become the th ird. 
If Florida want s to sta mp its 
name on that record, it needs 
to accum ulate more points 
than its Southe astern Confer­
ence foes Arkansas and Texas 
A&M, which are ranked sec­
ond and third on the men's 
side a nd third for A &M o n the 
wom en's. 
Altho ugh th e press ure is o n, 
this has become almos t an en­
joyable break for the Gato rs. 
"This i s the fun time of the 
season," senio r runner Cory 
McGee said. "This is die part 
where we get to back off in 
train ing and we know that all 
the h ard wo rk is done. 
"You come out to practice, 
and we 're all doing w orkouts at 
race p ace and feeling con fident 
in ou r fitness and where we are 
in our y ear and how ev erything 
has progr essed." 
McGee — who gathered 
num erous awards in the past 
week , inclu ding a Women's 
First-Team All-S EC selec tion 
and South Region Women's 
Runner of the Year — has ap­
proac hed nationals thinking 
less of those awards she won 
and more on he r team clinch ing 
a title. 
The Pass Christi an, Miss., 
native has repeat edly said the 
point of finishing her senior 
year as a Ga tor is to win a title. 
Howe ver, the wome n's team 
hasn't wo n an indoo r title since 
the 1992 seaso n — their sole i n­McGee door title. 
But the women's squad is 
the SEC Indoor cham pions, an d 
this is their b est c hance th ey've 
had for their f irst national title 
in 22 years. 
On the* 
other hand, 
the men h ave 
accumulated 
three straig ht 
indoor titles 
from 2010-12 
and intend* 
to bring the 
title back to 
Gainesville after faltering in 
2013. 
Defendin g champion hur­
dler Eddie Lovett a nd 200-me-
ter SEC champ ion Arman Hall 
look t o lead die Gators to that 
champ ionship . 
Hall, who put up 20 p oints 
on his own in three events 
(200m, 400-meter, 4x400-relay), 
has a shot at s nagging his first 
NCAA indoo r title i n multiple 
events. 
"Kno wing that I ca n at leas t 
do the four, the two and the 
4x4, it 's a great thing for me 
to know , because now I have 
more confidence in myself to 
know I could really double," 
Hall said. 
"Now since I know I can 
successfully [d oubl e], I just go t 
to keep c arryin g that on to na­
tionals and o utdoors as well." 
The Gato rs hav e a lot to live 
up to. T hey h ave won the titl^* 1 
before, and now they look to 
make this t eam one to remem­
ber. 
"So now we're going to 
nationals , they have us No. 1, 
we're not going to let it get to 
our heads a lot because that's 
just a rankin g," Hall sa id. 
"We want to show every­
body th at we 're No . 1, we d on't 
want to talk about i t." WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Gators facing struggling Volunteers IAN COHEN Alligator Writer @ibCOhen5 
In the coming weeks, Flori da wil l 
go up a gainst No. 12 Georgia, No. 8 
Alabama an d No. 11 Vanderb ilt. 
But before the Gato rs prepare 
to tackle the South easter n Confer­
ence 's best, they will take on the 
conference' s worst. 
No. 49 Tennessee (4-7, 0-3 SEC) 
plays hos t to No. 3 Florida (11-2 ,3-0 
SEC) this afternoo n at 4 p.m . 
And the Gato rs aren't too wor­
ried. 
"This wee kend is fun, " coach Ro­
land Thornqvist said. "It won't be 
hard to get ready for this w eekend." 
With its 10 rema ining matches 
all comin g against conf erenc e ri­
vals, Rorida has sufficient motiva­
tion to try to finish the season on a 
hot streak before beginn ing t he SEC 
Tourn ament . 
But to day, m otivation might not be all that n ecessary. 
. The last time Tenn essee won a 
point again st Rorida was April 25, 
2010, when th e form er lost 4-1. Since 
then, UF h as steamrolled UT by a 
combin ed scor e of 23-0. 
In addition, Tenn essee is 0-4 
agains t teams ranked inside the top 
25 this season and is trying to a void 
its fifth loss in six ga mes wh en Ro ri­
da visits toda y. 
As if that w asn't enough, Ror ida 
has comp iled a n 88-2 all-time rec ord 
again st schools fr om Te nnesse e. 
Still, it is a roa d mat ch. The Gators 
are all too fam iliar w ith falling sh ort 
agains t an underdog on the road 
like they did a t the National Indo ors 
quarte rfinal s on Feb. 8 ag ainst then-
No. 16 Nort hwestern. 
Both of Ro rida's two los ses came 
in away matches, albeit against 
much more formidable opponents 
— No. 4 Stanf ord and No. 9 North­
western Tenn essee doesn't look to be a 
tough matchup, but playing in a 
hostile road enviro nmen t agains t a 
team desperate fo r a win does te nd 
to rais e the stak es. 
"Playing at both [T ennessee an d 
Georg ia], the cr owds are going to be 
large and they don't like the Ga tors 
very m uch," Th ornqvi st said. 
"We're going to have to play 
good tennis under pressur e this 
weekend." 
Despite the adve rsity , Thorn ­
qvist said his playe rs are seaso ned 
enough to kno w wh at to expect. 
"We've seen the stages and the 
big crowds. I don't think that's re­
ally going to be a factor here," the 
thirteenth-ye ar coach said. 
If they w in out , Ror ida will have 
ended its regul ar se ason on at leas t 
a 10-match winning streak for the 
fifth cons ecutive yea r. The first of 10 
begins to day at Tennessee . 
And the Gat ors are n't wo rried . 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff 
Senior Sofie Oyen and freshman Kou rtney Keegan compete during UF's 4 -0 win over Harvard on Jan. 26 
at the Ring Te nnis Co mplex. Florida faces Tennessee in Knoxv ille, Te nn., today at 4 p.m. 
Be There &Biotest From N ature for Life 
Donate Plasm a And Save A Life Today 
Please help ustielp th ose c oping with rare, chr onic, ge netic di seases. 
New donors can receive $1 00.00 this w eek! r 
Ask a bout our Spec ialty Program s! 
Must be 18 years or o lder, have vafid I D. 
along with proof of SS# and local residency. 
Walk-ins We lcome. 
NOW O PEN 7 DAYS A WEE K! Biotest Plasma Center 
1112 N. M ain Street 
Gainesville, FL 326 01 
352-378-9431 
www.biotestplasma.com wqawia) SMA RTP HON E CE NTE RS # Buy*Sell*Trade*Repair 
off contrac t phones 
| In Butler Plaza (352) 371-3fc»0| BeUy Dance 
& 
Aerobics 
352-384-9200 HURRfCAME; j ALTER NATO RS, STA RTE RS & BATTE RIES j 
~~ OFF A NY REP AIR 
OR SERVICE 
378-4440 
Like us on Facebook and get a discount 
dally green . 436 se 2nd s treet, galnesviiie f132601 
352- 226- 8288 • vis it www.daIlygreendowntown.org Gainesvil le's new fav orite lunch spot is now open! 
(and i t's aro und the corner from you) 
20, ALLIGATOR • FRIDAY, M ARCH 1 4,2014 
Finney-Smith looking for redemption LANPONWATNICK 
Alligator St aff Writer @LandonW atnick 
For Dorian Finney-Smith, A tlan­
ta brings back plenty of unpleasant 
memories. 
As a freshman in 2011-12, Finne y-
Smith — a four-star recruit com ­
ing out of high scho ol — started at 
power forward for a struggling 16 -
16 Virginia Tech team desperate to 
win the Atla ntic Coast Conference 
Tournament in or der to earn a berth 
for the Kg Dance . 
But a matchup with then-No. 6 
Duke in the Phillips Arena in At­
lanta stood in the way of VT's qu est 
to extend its postseason. 
On March 9,2012, Virginia Tech 
got<bounced 60-56. A bout a month 
later, so did its coac h, Seth Green-
berg. 
It was one of th e low est p oints of 
Finney-Smith's bas ketball career. 
But once an opportunity to 
transfer to Florida presented it­
self, Finney-Smith saw a glimmer 
of hope, line decis ion to leave his 
home state may have been a tough 
one, but joini ng an elite program 
like UF was too g ood of an offer for 
the Portsmouth, Va., native to pass 
up. 
"The whole reason for me to 
come here was to win," Finney-
Smith said. 
Fast-forward about two years, 
and all Finn ey-S mith has d one so fa r 
at UF is w in games. No. 1 se ed Flor­
ida (29-2,18 -0 So utheastern Confer­
ence) is riding a 23-gam e winning 
streak into th e SEC Tou rnament and 
will begin its postseason today at 1 
p.m. against No. 8 seed Missouri in 
the Georgia Dome in Atlanta — a 
city Fin ney-Smith sh ould remember 
well. 
fcruring the Ga tors' historic regu­
lar season, Finney-Sm ith played an 
integral role. The redshirt sopho­
more has become one of the best 
sixth men in the nation, averaging 9.4 points and a team-best 6.9 re­
bounds off th e bench in 25.5 min utes 
per cont est. Tu esday, he was named 
the SEC Sixth M an of the Y ear. 
"When I came here I just want­
ed to do anything to help my team 
win," Finney-Smith said. "If that 
means coming off the bench with a 
lot of ene rgy, hitting the open shots, 
rebounding hard, then that's what 
I've got t o do ." 
Finney-Smith's journey at Flori ­
da has bee n no walk in the park. 
Due to NCAA transfer rules, 
he was held to the bench last sea­
son and could only participate in 
practices during the Gators' third 
straight run to the Elite E ight. 
The whole rea son f orme to 
come he re was to win." 
Dorian Finney-Smith 
UF forw ard 
His start to the 2013-14 season 
did not go as planned. After violat­
ing team rules, he was suspended 
for a portion of Florida's preseason 
practices , its home exhibition and 
two reg ular-season games. 
Whe n Finney-Smith returned 
to the team on Nov. 16, coach Billy 
Donovan began utilizing him as th e 
Gators' spark plug off the bench. 
At first, the task wasn't easy fo r the 
6-foot -8 fo rward, who started 30 of 
33 games at Virginia Tech his fre sh­
man year. 
"The toughest part about com ­
ing off the bench is that sweat you 
get from warm-ups, it dries up," 
Finn ey-S mith said. "So you've got 
to build your own momentum." 
Eventually, Finney-Smith grew 
accustomed to the role and began 
flourishing. This se ason, he ha s add­
ed a new dimension to the Gators 
with his abi lity to attack the boards, 
create off ense a nd play multiple po­
sitions. 
"He spreads the floor," senior 
forward Casey Prather said. "He could put the ball down. It allows 
people like me to lay and create for 
myself and my teammates. 
"He's really critical for our 
team." 
In league play, Finn ey-S mith 
has had some breakout games — a 
22-point, 15-rebound performance 
at Arkansas and a 19-po int, nine-
rebound outing at Vanderb ilt — b ut 
he has also been affecte d by s coring 
droughts. 
For the first seven games of F eb­
ruary, Finney-Smith shot 1 of 23 
from beyond the arc . 
Donovan attributed Finney-
Smith's struggles to the redshirt 
sophomore sometimes putting too 
much pressure on himself when 
early shots do not go in hi s fav or. 
It's a habit Finn ey-S mith has 
battled to work his way out of this 
year. 
"He gets to a place where, you 
know, he los es ene rgy, he loses em o­
tion, he lo ses enth usiasm," Do novan 
said. "He's got to le arn how to w ork 
his way through and out of those 
situations better than he does. 
"If you looked at him g oing back 
to early in the SEC , if his first one 
or two possessions don't go well 
for him it ended up becoming a 
downward spiral for him. He's got 
to be mentally strong enough that 
when the first co uple of p ossessions 
don't go his way that he still stays 
the c ourse in trying to figh t through 
some of that. That's been our big­
gest challenge as a coac hing staff 
with him." 
But recently, Finn ey-S mith has 
done a better job of maintaining his 
tenacity and avoiding his past ten­
dencies. In his last four gam es, he 
has made 10 of his 20 three-point 
attempts. 
"My confidence level is higher 
than what it was because I've been 
knocking down shots," Finney-
Smith said. "Even when I wasn't 
making shots, [my teammates] just stayed on me. An d when somebody 
stays on your back and your whole 
coaching staff and team's got con­
fidence in you, it just boosts your 
confidence." 
Now with a little more poise, 
Finney-Sm ith e nters Atlanta excited 
to finally make a mark in the post­
season. Next week, the Gators will likely kick off their NCAA Tourna­
ment in O rlando. 
The wait to play in the postsea­
son has been a long o ne. 
"It's a great feeling — I have 
never made it to the (NCA A) Tour­
nament," Finney-Smith said. "So 
right now, I'm just staying in the 
moment." 
600 NW 5 th Ave. 
352-384-1008 
352-284-2319 (cell) 
Student Discount o n Wednesdays 
$10 cu t with Stu dent ID 
OAK ! 
• JEWEIR Y 
k Cash For S tudents! 
Loans on your valuab les 
Oaks Pawn South i 352.33 5.13 33 
2530 SW 34th S t. 
Gainesville, FL 32608 
"UBREAKl FIXi 1 . iPffsiwSmartPhone - iPad/iPod - Mac/PC I 
352-505-6834 
100% Price Match 
Guarantee 
The leaders 
in cell phone student + faculty 
tablet repair emplo yee UF I 
I 
technology. receiv e I 10% OFF Jord an McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Dorian Finney-Smith fakes out Kentucky's Julius Randle during 
UF's 84-65 win against UK on Saturday in th e O'Connell Center. 
