By Ansley Pentz
Alligator Staff Writer
apentz@alligator.org
Isu Yoon likes pink sidewalk chalk, and 
she cries when her friends try to snatch it 
from her.
At Baby Gator Child Development and 
Research Center at Lake Alice, some of Isu’s friends, who are all about 2 and 3 years old, lick the chalk and streak it on their faces.
Her mom, Soon Yang, squats next to 
her on the sidewalk in the playground. She is a calm adult in the chaos of toddlers in bright tutus who squeal and giggle and chase each other.
Soon, 34, has a routine: Wake up. Make 
a fried egg and tomato juice for Isu because she doesn’t like vegetables. Drop Daddy off at the Florida Gym for work. Drive to Baby Gator in the family’s one car. Stay until Isu is comfortable. Study. Cook dinner. Clean. Back at 5 p.m. Repeat.
Of the 156 children at Baby Gator’s 
Lake Alice center where Isu plays, 48 are the children of UF students. And those stu-dents cost Baby Gator money, said Baby Gator Director Pamela Pallas.
UF student parents pay a discounted 
rate for Baby Gator child care.
The group requested about $173,000 
from UF for the next ﬁ  scal year, which 
would come from a $0.14 per-credit-hour 
increase in the student activities fee. 
This would allow the group to increase 
the enrollment of students’ children to 75 and cover the gap between what student parents pay and Baby Gator’s expenses, Pallas said.
Their request was denied unanimously 
by the UF Local Fee Committee, along with 
other groups’ proposals to increase the stu-
dent activities fee.
Matthew Hoeck, the Student Govern-
ment director of external affairs, said the students and faculty on the committee had We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 56 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
Despite clinching SEC East, Gators 
aim to maintain intensity
UF now focused on South Carolina, pg. 13
SG honors student veterans
The Veterans Walk continues today, pg. 5
What to do on your day oﬀ  
Wednesday is Veterans Day, pg. 8Mayor Ed Braddy ﬁ  les for re-election
Elections will be held in March, pg. 3
Mayor Ed Braddy ﬁ  les for re-election
John Hursh / Alligator Staff
Former UF doctoral student Soon Yang, 34, pushes her 3-year-old daughter, Isu Yoon, on a tricycle at the Baby Gator Child Development and Research Center on Thursday. Baby Gator’s request for additional funding was denied, and without it, student parents like Soon may be cut from the program.
A family aﬀ  air
THE NOV . 20 CONCERT IS FREE.
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Andy Grammer will sing to students to keep 
their heads up Nov. 20.
The singer-songwriter will perform on Flavet 
Field after opening act MAGIC! goes on at 7 p.m., 
Student Government Productions Chairman Bob-
by Finigan said. The concert is free and open to 
the public.
Grammer is known for 
songs like “Keep Your Head 
Up,” “Fine By Me” and his 
most popular, “Honey, I’m Good.”
“We really wanted an artist 
who would get the crowd go-
ing,” said Finigan, a 21-year-
old UF ﬁ  nance senior.
Grammer will be paid $75,000 for his perfor-
mance, and MAGIC! will be paid $30,000, he said.
MAGIC! is best known for their debut single, 
“Rude,” which came out in 2013.
Finigan said SGP hasn’t brought an indie-pop 
artist in a while, so that was one of their goals for this year.
“We just believe it’s something that the stu-
dents want,” he said.  
UF biology freshman Sierra Davis said she will 
be attending the concert. She’s been listening to Grammer’s music for ﬁ  ve years.
“I just think it’s going to be really fun,” the 
19-year-old said. “He just writes about things that are relatable.”
UF public relations sophomore Amanda Dio-
Guardi said Grammer was one of her favorite artists in high school. Her favorite song is “Keep Your Head Up.”
“I feel like he’s going to play some of his older 
songs, and I want to reminisce,” the 19-year-old said.  Andy Grammer 
to perform on Flavet FieldBy Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
When U.S. Marine Corps vet-
eran Brett Surles transferred to UF 
this Fall, he was worried about 
making friends.The UF chemical engineering 
junior came from Pensacola State College, and before that he was 
deployed twice to Afghanistan. He wanted to ﬁ  nd a place on campus where he could connect with peo-
ple like him.
He said he did at the Collegiate Veterans Success Center.
“I came into the success center, 
and there was a whole bunch of 
people that had my same sense of 
humor,” the 25-year-old said.  
The center is one of many ser-
vices that helped UF receive the 
title of “Military Friendly School” 
for the ﬁ  rst time by Victory Me-
dia, a veteran-owned business that determines which universities are military-friendly, said UF’s Associ-
ate Dean of Students Anthony De-
Santis.
DeSantis said being designated as military-friendly is a goal UF has been working toward for years.
“We have some really central-
ized services, and I think it’s be-
come more well known,” he said.  
Surles said he thought UF al-
ready had the title when he trans-
ferred.
“It came as a shock that we’re 
celebrating the fact that we just be-UF receives military-friendly designation
SEE MILITARY,  PAGE 4
SEE BABY GATOR,  PAGE 4Grammer
It was one of UF’s goals“I came into the success center, 
and there was a whole bunch 
of people that had my same 
sense of humor.”
Brett Surles
U.S. Marine Corps 
veteran and UF juniorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Rally for low-wage workers
Today at 4 p.m., fast-food work-
ers, students, labor activists, reli-gious leaders and city and county commissioners will come togeth-
er at West University Avenue and 
13th Street to rally in support of fast-food and other low-wage workers demanding a $15-per-hour minimum wage. We are fighting for a wage that allows a worker to live and raise a family with dignity. This rally is part of a National Day of Action To Fight 
for $15, with events in more than 
500 cities across the country. United Way of Florida found 45 percent of households in Florida can’t afford basic housing, child-care, food and health care, as well as that Alachua County has the greatest income inequality in the state.
Starry Night
Observe the night sky and explore the world beyond. See a portable planetarium show and view the universe in 3-D on Friday from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. during “Starry Night” at the Florida Museum of Natural History. Come for a free, 
fun-filled night of astronomical 
proportions. Visitors may gaze at binary stars and nebulas through professional-quality telescopes with astronomy experts. Food vendors will be available. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/starrynight.
Keep Alachua County Beautiful 
seeks volunteersThe nonprofit Keep Alachua County Beautiful is looking for about two dozen volunteers to paint the trim of the Archer City Hall at noon Friday. Please email all inquiries to riley.kacb@gmail.com.
RUB Entertainment Presents 
Triwizard TournamentReitz Union Board Entertainment will host our annual Harry Potter event today starting at 7:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Activities will include entering your name in the Goblet of Fire to 
battle dragons, saving your loved 
one from the Black Lake and nav-igating the life-size maze to com-pete for the Triwizard Cup. You can create your own crafts, and butterbeer will be served. Check out #TriwizardTrivia for "Harry Potter" trivia. Tweet us with the correct answer to win prizes. 
Visit us @UF_RUB on Twitter for 
more information.
University Gallery
“Class of (circa) ‘65” is on view in the University Gallery at UF until Dec. 4 and is the final ex-hibition of the year in celebration 
of the gallery’s 50th anniversary. 
The exhibition features the pho-tographs and paintings of two esteemed UF art alumni, Robert Fichter and Mernet Larsen, in-cluding their photographs from the early ‘60s by Jerry Uelsmann. A public reception will be held Friday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. To 
learn more about the artists and 
the exhibition, visit arts.ufl.edu/calendar.
The Making of an Artist’s Book
Come hear Emily Martin (of Naughty Dog Press and the University of Iowa Center of the Book) discuss the making of the 
artist’s book All Sorts, created 
during her six-week presence in the Marjorie S. Coffey Library Endowment residency at the George A. Smathers Libraries, on Friday from 2 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100, and in the Lobby Gallery. The discus-sion is followed by a reception 
and refreshments. Her book was 
inspired by the Jerry Chicone Jr. Citrus Crate Label Collection.
Sentimental Journey: WWII Here 
and Over ThereThe Matheson History Museum is excited to partner with the UF Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program’s Veterans History 
Project in celebration of Veterans Day on Wednesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. The doors will open at 5 p.m. and refreshments will be pro-vided. Admission is free. Steven Noll, the UF History Department senior lecturer, and Ann Pauline Smith, SPOHP Veterans History 
project coordinator, will give 
presentations about the Veterans History Project and the impact of Camp Blanding and World War II on Alachua County. Local World War II veterans will be in atten-dance. 
The Alligator in Florida Culture
On Friday, Jeff Klinkenberg, au-thor and retired reporter for the Tampa Bay Times, will give a multimedia presentation on the multi-faceted story of the alli-gator in Florida culture from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Matheson History Museum. Klinkenberg is the author of several books, but 
his latest is “Alligators in B-Flat: 
Improbable Tales from the Files of Real Florida.” He is a two-time winner of the Paul Hansell Distinguished Journalism Award, the highest award given by the Florida Society of Newspaper Editors.
Using the arts to eliminate stigmaThe Center for Arts in Medicine, Dean of Students and Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Violence 
Education seek culturally diverse 
individuals interested in social justice for a new theatre troupe that uses the power of the arts to prevent interpersonal violence. Become part of the movement to eliminate stigma, build aware-ness and educate your peers. We provide training and opportuni-
ties; you provide passion, talent, 
energy and drive. No prior the-atre experience required. Contact Jeffrey Pufahl at jeffpuf@ufl.edu. This club will meet Tuesdays at UF in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion in Studio G15 starting today from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
Around the world with 
GatorNightsGatorNights will host an “Around the World in 240 Minutes” themed event Friday at 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. This event was created in col-laboration with the Common 
Reading Program and the book 
“Double Take.” The event will feature a snowboard simulator, stuff-a-polar bear and collabora-tions with multiple multi-cultural student organizations. The event will also show the movie “The Man from U.N.C.L.E” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. The night will end 
with free pizza during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not 
appear in the paper. Press releas-es will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In the Freewheel Project photo story published in Monday's paper, Peter Klavuhn is 57. The Alligator initially reported other-wise.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 56
HIGH  80° LOW  55°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Mia Gettenberg, Jessica   
  Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, Shari Linn, 
  Melissa Smith, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
wcampbell@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloBy Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Gainesville Mayor Ed Braddy 
ﬁ  led for re-election Monday morn-
ing, looking to win a second term in the upcoming March elections.
At a fundraiser Monday night 
to kick off his campaign, Braddy laid out his platform to an au-dience of about 50 supporters, which included local and state politicians.
Braddy said he plans to con-
tinue efforts to lower utility rates, make Gainesville more business friendly and create more oppor-tunities for city residents — espe-cially those with a low income.
City Commissioners Todd 
Chase, Craig Carter and Charles Goston promised to support Brad-dy and urged people to donate to 
his campaign.
“This re-election is really im-portant,” Chase said, adding that 
he expected the race to be close.
“One thing I can say about Ed 
is that he is not only unique, Ed is special,” Goston said.
“Ed has done something no 
other mayor has been able to do,” he said. “He’s been doing a balancing with our commission where we have the greatest har-mony, the greatest love and the 
greatest friendship for each other 
that has ever been on that City Commission.”
Braddy enters the mayoral race 
facing two opponents: former City Commissioner Lauren Poe and Gainesville resident Donald Shep-herd Sr. 
Braddy has served as mayor 
since 2013, following service on the city commission from 2002 to 2008, according to the city web-site.
Gainesville resident Debbie 
Martinez, who helped organize the fundraiser, praised Braddy for work he’s done to try to low-er Gainesville Regional Utilities rates, which are among the high-est in the state.
“Mayor Braddy has been able 
to bring our community together 
in a time we need it the most after 
this GREC biomass ﬁ  nancial disas-ter,” Martinez said in reference to the Gainesville Renewable Energy Center biomass plant, which she blames for spiking utility rates.
Braddy said lowering utility 
rates is a top priority.
“I feel that what we’ve accom-
plished in the ﬁ  rst term is to ef-fectively stop the bleeding, and a priority moving forward will be to get the rates reduced to a more affordable and competitive level,” Braddy said.
Mayoral candidate Poe said he 
was anticipating Braddy would run for re-election.
Poe said he’s “going to let vot-
ers decide” in regards to Braddy’s highlights and low points as com-missioner and mayor.
“I think Ed and I will have 
plenty of time to speak to the vot-ers and draw contrasts between ourselves,” Poe said. “I do believe that we have very different phi-
losophies on the role of our city 
government and how we can em-power our citizens through the ac-tions that our government takes.”
Shepherd did not return re-
quests for comment as of press time.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mayor Ed Braddy addresses supporters at the home of Randi Elrad and John Pastore on Monday af-
ter announcing he is running for re-election. He spoke about lowering GRU utility rates, continuing to make Gainesville business friendly and continuing the redevelopment of East Gainesville.
 Mayor Ed Braddy ﬁ  les for re-election, holds fundraiser
CANDIDATES
ED BRADDY
 Served as mayor since May 2013
 Elected as a city commissioner for two terms, from 2002-2008
 Graduated from UF in 1995
LAUREN POE
 Elected as a city com-missioner for two terms, from 2008-2015
 Served as Mayor Pro-tempore in 2012
 Graduated from UF with a bachelor’s degree in history and a master’s degree in social sciences
DONALD SHEPHERD SR.
 Unsuccessfully ran for city commissioner in 2012 and 2014
 Previously worked as a groundskeeper for UF’s Physical Plant Division until 20114   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
One of the glass doors to a Keys Residential Complex building was 
smashed Sunday night. University Police are investigating the in-cident, which UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Barber said may have in-volved a fight between two men.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
gsabella@alligator.org
University Police are investigat-
ing an incident in a Keys Residen-
tial Complex building after one of the glass doors to the building was smashed Sunday night.
At about 9 p.m., Merced Fletch-
er, a UF political science senior, said she heard several men screaming outside building four in the com-plex.
“I opened the door and you heard 
him yell, ‘What the f--- did you do, bro?’” she said. “One was holding the other back, and then someone yelled, ‘Let him go, let him go,’ and then they ran off.”
Fletcher then noticed the build-
ing’s front door, installed this se-mester, was shattered from top to bottom and a pile of glass was spread across the floor.
She believes one of the men 
might live in their complex or know someone who does.
“It doesn’t make sense to just 
randomly fight outside a place if you don’t live here,” Fletcher, 22, said.
Allison Hasson, a UF psychology 
sophomore who lives with Fletcher, said she was in the shower when the glass broke.“It sounded like a bomb going off 
or something,” Hasson, 19, said.  
Hasson said another resident told 
her a man got thrown into the door.
Catalina Ruiz, a UF public rela-
tions sophomore, lives on the sec-ond floor and said nothing was thrown at the door.   
“We didn’t see anything on the 
floor, so they think someone might have smashed a person into the glass,” Ruiz, 19, said.
UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Bar-
ber said reports point toward a bat-tery involving two men.
While security cameras face both 
of the entrances in the building, he said it’s too early in the inves-tigation to know what happened or whether the cameras captured any-thing useful. Residence hall glass door damaged
came military-friendly because it always just 
seemed that way to me,” he said.  
UF is one of 94 U.S. universities that host 
the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ VetSuccess on Campus Program, an on-cam-pus representation of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs that provides educational 
and career counseling for veterans, DeSantis 
said.
“Not one person’s being missed by us,” 
he said. “We’re making contact with every veteran when they get here, and that’s re-
ally important, that there’s that connection 
to campus.”
Ryan Fake, a UF electrical engineering 
junior, said the Collegiate Veterans Success 
Center was a big help when he was expe-
riencing difficulties receiving his Veterans Administration benefits. He was in the Navy from 2006 to 2012.
He said UF already seemed military-
friendly, even before its designation. The Collegiate Veterans Success Center provides 
tutoring for veterans, and the staff members 
go out of their way to make connections with students.
“They do their best for us,” the 29-year-
old said. “I can’t complain.”
DeSantis said UF’s goal for Summer 2016 
is to provide more veteran-specific orien-tations. Undergraduate colleges and UF’s Levin College of Law provide these orienta-
tions, and he wants to expand to more pro-
fessional schools.
But for now, he’s just happy the univer-
sity is finally recognized as military-friendly.
“A lot of our veterans would say we’ve 
been that way for a while, but now it’s of-ficial,” he said.MILITARY,  from pg1UF plans to 
provide more 
veteran-specific 
orientationsto decide if the requested student activities 
fee increases were priorities.
“This was a year to focus on what’s a 
need and what’s a want,” he said.
Before the Spring semester, Baby Gator 
will become even less affordable for Soon and her husband, Youngmin Yoon, who are transitioning from student parents to just parents.
Youngmin graduated in May. When Isu 
was born, Soon was pursuing a Ph.D. in chemistry, but she decided to take a break for personal reasons — and for Isu.
To help student parents, Baby Gator 
charges them less than faculty for the child care services, which includes hot breakfasts and healthy lunches, late pick-up hours and bilingual teachers, Pallas said.
Because of Soon and Youngmin’s chang-
ing student status, their daycare tuition will become $190 per week instead of $170 per week. In a 15-week semester, they’ll shell out an extra $300.
With Soon staying home to study for her 
upcoming GRE graduate school entry exam to return to school in the Fall and Young-min’s small adjunct professor salary, the child care tuition is becoming difficult to pay.
The couple’s parents send them money 
from Seoul, South Korea, their home coun-try. It’s 88 degrees, and they won’t turn on 
the air conditioning in their apartment. They 
use food stamps.
About one in four UF student parents’ 
incomes are below the federal poverty line, according to a 2013 survey distributed to more than 2,000 students by Baby Gator and the PhDMoms organization.
Baby Gator is convenient to student par-
ents: Their children are close to classes and 
on-campus housing. It’s open late, which al-
lows Soon to spend nine hours in the lab.  
Buses regularly pass by the decade-old 
facility. Plus, it’s a good deal for student parents, Pallas said.
“Our mission is to support students,” she 
said.
Costs
Baby Gator was started in 1969 by a 
group of student parents who would share babysitting responsibilities.
Today, it provides day care for children 
up to 4 years old. Most of their parents are 
UF faculty, students and staff.
There are two Baby Gator facilities with 
student parents from any college or depart-ment at UF, one near Lake Alice and another 
near Diamond Village.
With the current faculty-to-student-
parent ratio, Baby Gator will be more than $32,000 in debt.
Student parents are charged about 
$15,200 on average annually, Pallas said.
She said providing affordable care be-
comes more difficult as the costs of main-taining Baby Gator increase. The program is receiving less state funding than it was a decade ago, but it is taking care of more 
children, has more teachers to pay and reg-
ularly paints over the fingerprint smudges that cover the building’s walls. It also ac-counts for increases in the cost of living.
“It’s hard to pass (those costs) onto the 
parents,” she said.
Overall, it costs Baby Gator $4.1 million 
per year to provide high-quality care to 332 children, Pallas said.
This year, maintenance work will be 
more than $30,000, she said.
“There’s always something,” Pallas said.  
“A child’s always flushing a toy down a toi-let.”
For working parents
Soon didn’t plan on getting pregnant. 
Youngmin told her to take the pregnancy test twice.
She and her husband met in elementary 
school, stayed together in middle and high 
school and dated in college in South Korea. 
They both worked on their doctoral degrees at UF; Soon studied and taught chemistry while Youngmin studied sports manage-ment. They got married in South Korea in May 2011 and Isu was born the next year.
She originally planned on staying home 
with her baby. But she said her mom told her, “You have to send her to day care or 
else you cannot study.”
“She was right,” Soon said. “It was hard-
er than I thought.”
Isu was enrolled in Baby Gator when she 
was 2 months old. At the time, Soon was 
still a student. She earned money through her teaching assistant position, and al-though it was difficult, it was enough to pay for Baby Gator’s tuition and an apartment.
While Isu was sleeping, Soon would 
scoop her up around 8 a.m., drop her off at Baby Gator and spend the day in the lab. 
Baby Gator was the best day care in 
Gainesville because Soon didn’t have time to pack a lunch for her daughter, she said. She was a working mom. She was busy.
But last Fall, Soon decided to take a break 
from school. She said she plans to go to an-
other college when her husband finds a job.  “I want to focus to take care of my baby 
more,” she said.
The children
Like most 3-year-olds, Raphael Wu likes 
cutting paper, eating watermelon and seeing 
his day care teacher.
“If he’s happy, you can tell,” said Xiao-
man Wang, Raphael’s mom.
The 31-year-old came to UF to pursue her 
master’s degree in business administration after teaching at a school in China.
Since Xiaoman and Raphael moved to 
the U.S. in August, Raphael has been en-rolled in three daycare centers: O2B Kids, then Open Arms Child Development Center and now Baby Gator.
At O2B Kids, Xiaoman said she felt Ra-
phael’s language barrier ostracized him (Chinese is his first language), and the cen-ter was far from home. At Open Arms, she had to prepare meals for Raphael, which was difficult when she had to leave early in the morning for class.
But at Baby Gator, she said the meals are 
included, the schedule works for students and the teachers are knowledgeable. The 
classrooms are full of children from around 
the world.
“Everyone is speaking in a different lan-
guage, but they all understand each other,” Xiaoman said.
She said she was surprised she was able 
to enroll Raphael in Baby Gator. As of Oct. 20, Pallas said there are 64 student parents on the waitlist.
Xiaoman said there’s a demand for child 
care, and Baby Gator isn’t able to meet it. The facilities need to be expanded.
“We need more,” she said.
Looking forward
Isu celebrated her third birthday this 
weekend. At her party, she wore a Disney Princess Sofia dress.
Isu is a growing girl, Soon said. She eats 
more food and groceries are expensive. The 
family uses food stamps and the federal 
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.
But parents like Soon rely on Baby Gator 
for meals and child care. Without an in-crease in Baby Gator’s funding, they won’t be able to take in more student’s children, Pallas said.
They’ll send a mail-out fundraiser at the 
end of this term. And then they’ll have to evaluate the budget again. They may have to cut student parents from the program in the future.
“We won’t have any choice,” she said.BABY GATOR,  from pg1Student parents pay about $15,200 annually It was from a reported fight
“They do their best for us. I can’t 
complain.”
Ryan Fake
UF electrical engineering juniorTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
SAY OM
Madeline Bieda, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior, meditates out-
side Library West at the Meditation Club’s Meditate-A-Thon on Mon-day. The club invited passers-by to meditate, write what inspires them on a blackboard and learn about the beneﬁ  ts of meditation.
HEROES OF UF
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
Danny Makowsky never used his gas mask for any-
thing but U.S. Air Force drills.  
But Monday, the UF business management mas-
ter’s student used it on the Library West breezeway to 
educate students about student veterans.
“A lot of people don’t realize the size of veterans 
on campus,” Makowsky, 30, said. “They’ve probably never seen a real-life rucksack.”
The Student Government Veteran’s Affairs Cabinet 
and Freshman Leadership Council held Heroes of UF for the ﬁ  rst time to recognize the about 1,000 student veterans on campus. The event served to commemo-rate Veterans Day, and students wrote letters to sol-diers overseas, pinned American ﬂ  ag brooches to their 
shirts and watched an ROTC student twirl his riﬂ  e.
The Veterans Walk, where about 350 students in-
teracted with veterans like Makowsky, was moved 
from the Plaza of the Americas to the breezeway to shelter the student veterans’ souvenirs from the rain. The walk will continue today from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.
FLC decided to hold the Heroes of UF event to high-light the student veterans on campus, said FLC Chair-man Ali Kassam, 21. About 100 students attended the 
event, which cost the SG Cabinet about $700.
“We actually just saw a great niche on campus,” 
the UF marketing senior said.
Steven Martinez, a UF sociology junior and mem-
ber of the National Guard, helped students shrug on 
heavy camouﬂ  age jackets. He showed how to use gas-mask ﬁ  lters, which were lined with charcoal to protect soldiers against poisonous gases.
The 22-year-old also showed students his favorite 
item from his service in the guard: a medal for ex-cellence, which he earned by ensuring the safety of millions of dollars of equipment at the Guard’s Jack-sonville ofﬁ  ce.
Megan Ekstrom, a UF nursing sophomore, en-
joyed looking at the memorabilia. She said she hadn’t known how many veterans were on campus before.
She said she thinks the event will educate students 
about the UF veteran community’s service.
“I’m more grateful for my (veteran) community in 
Gainesville,” the 19-year-old said.
Alligator contributing writer Victoria Todd contrib-
uted to this report.SG honors student veterans
A BILL IS CIRCULATING 
THROUGH THE STATE 
LEGISLATURE.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
A bill in the state Legislature 
could allow law enforcement to pull motorists over for texting and driving.
Last Tuesday, state Rep. Keith 
Perry ﬁ  led HB 537 in the Florida House amending state law that currently classiﬁ  es texting and driving as a secondary offense. The amendment would change it to a primary offense, allowing law enforcement to pull motorists over 
for texting while driving and issue 
citations.
Under current law, “If the ve-
hicle committed a moving or traf-ﬁ  c violation the deputy would stop the vehicle for the moving trafﬁ  c violation,” Alachua County Sher-iff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokesman Art Forgey wrote in an email. “If the deputy 
also witnessed the driver texting 
he would then be able to enforce that violation as secondary.”
Forgey added that the sheriff’s 
ofﬁ  ce supports legislation to make texting and driving a primary of-fense as a way of making roads safer.“I haven’t been involved in (a 
texting and driving) accident per-
sonally… but I read the paper, and 
I read reports, and I look at the data and I believe for public safety this bill is very important,” Perry said.
He compared his bill to legisla-
tion that amended seat-belt laws, changing the offense of not wear-ing a seat belt from secondary to 
primary.
“This is why I think it’s so 
important — the seat belt law 
protects you from your own negli-gence… (and) texting and driving, while it can certainly cause you harm, it really endangers other people,” Perry said.Cracking down on texting and drivingThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnAziz Ansari for 
comedian of the 
decade
The countercultural revolution of the ‘60s coincided with re-
markable advancements in recording and broadcast tech-nology. With the two occurring in tandem, it became easier than ever for fanbases to develop around adored ﬁ  gures in pop culture. This proved to be a boon for stand-up come-
dians who, given the transgressive era they operated in, gained notoriety among young people for putting truth to power — in other words, giving voice to and reﬂ  ecting the fears, concerns and sensibilities of young people. In short, they called it as they saw it.
For pop-culture obsessives (half of the Alligator ofﬁ  ce), the 
practice of organizing and debating the comedy canon is a cher-ished one. When people talk about iconic comedic ﬁ  gures of the last 50 years, a group of names are usually thrown around. 
Lenny Bruce, Richard Pryor, George Carlin, Jerry Seinfeld and 
Dave Chappelle are all comedians who could be said to have em-bodied the Zeitgeist of their times during the most active periods of their careers.
Which brings us to 2015, seven years into the ‘10s (is that what 
we’re calling it?). Whose sensibilities, whose persona, whose musings have best captured the spirit of our times?
With the release of his new series “Master of None” on Netﬂ  ix, 
the answer may well be Aziz Ansari. For those unfamiliar with Ansari’s work, here’s a CliffsNotes summary of his persona: loud, 
eager Indian-American raised on a healthy diet of American pop 
culture makes deep, meaningful insights into how strange it is to live in the 21st century while simultaneously transforming anec-dotes about hanging out with Kanye West into comedic gold.
For those of a certain age (read: the classes of 2013-2016), 
the development of Ansari’s public persona and his career tra-jectory has served as a funhouse mirror to their own personal development. Take “Human Giant” for instance. The MTV sketch-comedy, which aired from 2007-2008, saw Ansari operating in 
a free-wheeling, absurdist and improvisational manner — ﬁ  tting 
material for middle school-aged millennials honing their comedic sensibilities.
Ansari’s breakout role as Tom Haverford on “Parks and Rec-
reation,” as well as his bit movie parts and stand-up specials, are beﬁ  tting of a young person experiencing success for the ﬁ  rst time. Like Ansari at this point, we’re all hungry, we’re all hustling and we doubt there’s a single person who doesn’t ﬁ  nd the antics of R. Kelly and Kanye West hilarious.
Which brings us to the present. With many of us on the cusp 
of real-life adulthood, and Ansari having become an American comedy institution, his works have probed the same question many millennials are facing: What now? “Master of None,” along with his book “Modern Romance” and most recent comedy spe-cial have all directly confronted and interrogated the ennui that seems to be pervading our generation. We’ve been kept in a per-petual state of youthfulness by online culture and technology: Has it stunted us? How do we navigate adult relations and problems 
while simultaneously regurgitating nostalgia (through our easy ac-
cess of childhood favorites online) and being directly tethered to our past selves through social media?
Ansari’s development as a comedian, as well as his acute pro-
pensity for self-reﬂ  ection (although, like many of us, reaching an “understanding” of ourselves seems elusive) has given our contra-diction-ﬁ  lled generation a spokesperson. Like Ansari’s character on “Master of None,” we have opportunities, intelligence, a love for hip-hop and technology on our side: So why the hell can’t we 
seem to make it “work”?
Syria, Afghanistan and double-back in U.S. strategy
This past October, we witnessed a stark 
readjustment of the U.S. military agen-da in the Middle East. On Oct. 30, Pres-ident Obama announced the U.S. mili-tary would, in fact, be putting “boots 
on the ground” in Syria. Earlier on Oct. 15, the Obama administration announced an ex-tension of the timeline for U.S. military pres-ence in Afghanistan. Through most of next year, 9,800 troops will continue operations, and by Jan. 2017, a residual force of 5,500 troops will remain indeﬁ  nitely.
One does not have to go very far back in time to ﬁ  nd 
statements from the White House promising that neither 
of these two commitments would be engaged. As recent-
ly as Dec. 2014, Obama declared, “Our combat mission in Afghanistan is ending.” In the case of Syria, from the moment the U.S. began its airstrike venture in 2014 to this past Sept. 30, the White House continually reassured there would not be “boots on the ground” in Syria.
Yet, we have seen a complete reversal of strategy on 
both fronts. What happened?
Engagements in Syria are likely the result of converg-
ing factors. Recent reports conclude that the Islamic State group is currently as strong as it was in 2014. Moreover, U.S. programs designed to “train the moderates” have proven lackluster. The initial CIA program only success-fully and thoroughly trained a handful of soldiers. Sub-sequently, a similar Pentagon program, totaling $42 mil-lion, fell through because it was directed solely against ISIS, while most rebels want to ﬁ  ght al-Assad as well. In summation, the U.S. strategy of training moderates and 
engaging airstrikes has fallen short of desired expecta-
tions.
Likewise, al-Assad’s reutilization of chemical weap-
ons against civilians and rebels through the use of chlo-rine canisters and Russia’s recent intervention in the re-gion, largely in support of al-Assad, has inspired more active U.S. involvement. In describing the new agenda, however, the White House resists admitting these “few-er than 50” special-ops troops will likely see combat, stubbornly maintaining that they will exclusively pursue “advise-and-assist” en-gagements.
On Afghanistan, Obama announced, “Our 
troops will continue to pursue those two nar-row tasks that I outlined earlier: training Af-ghan forces and going after al-Qaida.” Com-mander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan Gen. John Campbell cites the recent resurgence of the Taliban threat as necessitating a consider-
able U.S. presence. Given the rise of ISIS after the 2011 American retreat from Iraq and recent skirmishes in Af-ghanistan between spreading ISIS forces and the Tali-
ban, Obama maintains that Afghanistan is “a key piece 
of the network of counterterrorism partnerships that we need.” Many Afghan ofﬁ  cials and police strongly advo-cate a continued U.S. presence as well.
So, will these new U.S. strategies prove successful? I 
don’t know. I think the bigger question is, particularly in the case of Syria, what does success truly mean? Success for whom?
On an optimistic note, world leaders from a myriad 
of countries, including the big players in Syria — Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Russia and the U.S. — met Oct. 23 in Vienna to discuss future action. Overall, they agreed on the need for united efforts against ISIS, and delegates told the press they discussed “even the most difﬁ  cult (is-sues).” The diplomats agreed to meet again, and, judg-ing by the ﬁ  rst meeting’s optimistic end, perhaps some-thing constructive will emerge.
As for the revised U.S. strategy in Afghanistan, all 
that can really be said is our engagements will not likely end soon. And seeing as how the U.S.-Afghan war now enters its high-school aged stage, with the engagement having begun way back in October 2001, we may, unfor-tunately, be seeing this war through to graduation day.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sopho-
more. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.org“Pride goes before destruction 
and a haughty spirit before the fall.”
Most Mississippians 
could recite this proverb to 
you without consulting the omniscience of Google. After all, the Magnolia State boasts the superlative of being the most Christian in the nation. As of 2012, 59 per-cent of its population identify as deeply religious. The second state to secede from the Union (beating us out for the silver) vaunts oth-er accolades, like having the highest teenage birth-rate in the U.S., and frankly doesn’t give a damn 
what any Yankee carpetbagger has to say about it.
But perhaps the most poignant component of 
Mississippi’s pride stems from it being the last state 
to have the Confederate battle standard represented in its own state ﬂ  ag. The current ﬂ  ag, which holds the Rebel ﬂ  ag in its left-hand corner, was adopted in 1894 and replaced the equally rebellious tree-bear-ing standard which possessed a more direct homage to the glory days of ﬁ  ghting for your state’s right to 
party. In case it wasn’t clear, by “to party” I mean, 
“to own slaves.”
In this respect, Mississippi’s insouciance to the 
pressure to be progressive reminds one of a chubby mother with a ﬁ  lthy belly button donning a shirt that exposes her bare midriff. Not only is she com-pletely unconcerned with any on-looking dissent-ers, but she thinks it’s a good idea as well. She feels that, well, if you’ve got it, ﬂ  aunt it.
And many Southerners have done just that, fol-
lowing suit in their defense of what they see as a relic of their history and heritage, even after the removal of the standard from South Carolina and Alabama statehouses. A ﬂ  ag they see as not con-cerning itself with hate or the systematic oppression of African-Americans. “Its simply Southern pride,” they’ll say. Or, “You have to be from the South to understand.”
But what are they proud of, exactly? And what don’t I understand about the South?
Is it rugged individualism? Is it corn-
bread, sweet tea or a stylish succotash? Is it love for the bucolic and distaste for the fast-paced city life? Is it overwhelm-
ing hospitality and table manners that are 
second to none? I’m calling bullshit.
I’ve done a decent amount of traveling 
in our great U.S., and with exception of the cuisine, it seems to me all the other aforementioned cultural attributes can be 
found in many other parts of the country.
The defense of the ﬂ  ag is a gloriﬁ  cation of the 
history of the Confederacy and its cause. It is not in 
defense of a Southern way of life that, as far as we 
know, is not under attack. And this is a problem for most people who know their history. 
Defenders of the ﬂ  ag, to avoid being overtly 
racist, like to pretend the Confederacy stood up to subvert a totalitarian North that was threatening to take all of their country ham away. Defenders of the Confederate legacy act as though there was a valiance in their cause. But this is a sentiment that 
completely ignores tomes of history.
The simple truth is the ﬂ  ag represented an army 
ﬁ  ghting a war for the state’s right to own slaves. 
Any other meaning applied to it is vastly insigniﬁ  -cant and debases the experience of those who suf-fered under the institution of chattel slavery. There should be a grave shame when regarding this ﬂ  ag, not playful reverence.
As activists in Mississippi push for the replace-
ment of the state ﬂ  ag, it is clear this will be a tough ﬁ  ght for a state whose sentiments have largely not changed over the ﬂ  ag. But should they manage to keep the stars and bars from government buildings and standards, it is only right we, in turn, forgive them for forgetting to ratify the 13th Amendment. Like many other aspects of decency, it just slipped their mind.  
Justin Ford is a Santa Fe College journalism 
junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
It’s an experience we know all too well: innocently scrolling through Facebook, attempting to stay up 
to date on your friends’ activities and unwillingly being drowned in a sea of useless click-bait articles. You know the type of ar-ticle I’m talking about: the ones with titles like, “20 Things I Want to Tell My Little,” “10 Struggles That Only Girls With 
Long Hair Will Understand” and “8 
Thoughts Every Girl Has When Pick-ing Out a Halloween Costume.”
It seems as though every other 
post is someone linking an article from The Odyssey on a friend’s timeline with an accompanying mes-sage along the lines of, “omg this is so us!!!” Occasionally my curiosity 
will get the best of me and I’ll click 
on whatever trendy new “50 Things That Only ____ Will Understand” is constantly being re-posted on my news feed. This practice has left me mystiﬁ  ed and frustrated to say the least.
Let me start off by addressing the 
fact that the Greek community here 
at UF doesn’t have an exactly stellar 
reputation with those not directly in-volved in it. This isn’t meant to be a blanket statement, but I’ve real-ized through enough talks with non-Greek friends and acquaintances that being involved in it comes with a cer-tain set of preconceived notions that aren’t particularly ﬂ  attering.
I will be the ﬁ  rst to say the ar-
ticles gaining the most traction from publications like The Odyssey are undoubtedly perpetuating these ste-reotypes. For starters, the topics they cover are unoriginal and clichéd. I think I must have scrolled past 15 dif-ferent versions of “10 Reasons Why I Love My Big” just within the last se-
mester. Additionally, I’m convinced 
there’s absolutely no editing process, at least judging from the amount of laugh-worthy grammatical errors I’ve stumbled upon. I’m sorry, but if you can’t tell the difference be-tween “then” and “than” or “their” and “there,” THEN you shouldn’t con-sider yourself a published journalist. It’s gotten to 
the point where my room-
mate and I have a compe-tition to see who can ﬁ  nd the worst Odyssey article, which results in a lot of laughs and lost faith.
We can do better than 
this. How is the Greek community supposed to be respected when ar-
ticles like these are serving as many 
students’ only contact with our or-ganizations? I know damn well if I wasn’t in a chapter and saw these thoughtless blurbs ﬂ  oating around on the Internet, I’d judge us just as harshly. Luckily, I know how many accomplished and talented people are a part of this community; how-
ever, that does nothing to rectify the 
situation.
The First Amendment gives us 
the right to free speech, not effective speech. I’m sure there are plenty of talented writers working for The Od-yssey, but unfortunately it seems like the most stereotypical articles are the ones garnering the most circulation. 
It’s the nature of online journalism, 
I suppose. People share what they identify with, and what better way to guarantee readers than by being as generic as possible?
I will never claim to be the per-
soniﬁ  cation of journalistic perfection. Hell, I’m still trying to ﬁ  gure out how I managed to trick the Alligator into 
thinking my opinions were valid 
enough to be published. But with that said, I put a lot of thought and hard work into what I write and it saddens me to see friends actively perpetuating the stereotypes we ﬁ  ght so adamantly to eradicate. We all have so much more depth beyond the “sorority girl” or “frat boy” labels 
we bear, and I look forward to the 
day when the rest of the UF commu-nity realizes this as well.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English 
junior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.
The Odyssey needs to rethink its 
approach to online journalismColumn
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.orgMississippi needs to change its state ﬂ  agColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgLetter to the Editor
Support a living wage today
The idea that individuals who 
work full-time in 2015 are living below the poverty line and un-able to make ends meet is simply 
unfathomable, but that’s the un-
fortunate reality for many work-ers, especially those part of the service industry.
While proﬁ  ts for corporations 
steadily increase along with the salaries of CEOs, workers see their labor continually devalued in stagnant wages that don’t re-ﬂ  ect inﬂ  ation and the cost of liv-ing. Whether it’s a McDonald’s employee or a grad student deal-ing with exorbitant fees, the reali-
ty for many workers is grim, with 
many sacriﬁ  cing essentials like eating or being unable to care for their children. Let’s not allow this to continue unchecked.
Join the Gainesville communi-
ty and workers ranging from fast-food workers to adjunct profes-sors in the ﬁ  ght for a living wage in a nationwide day of action as a part of the Fight for 15 campaign. The action will take place today at 4:30 p.m. at the corner of 13th 
Street and University Avenue. 
Please come out and support the right for every working person to live in dignity!
Eric Brown
UF political science senior
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
Fried Rice Fundraiser
The UF chapter of Pi Delta Psi Fraternity 
Inc. is hosting its second annual rice fund-raiser at Lollicup, where fraternity members will sell homemade rice dishes from 5 p.m. 
to 9 p.m. Dishes include Vietnamese fried 
rice, kimchee fried rice and Thai fried rice for $5 per rice dish or $6 for a sampler of all three.
Kanapaha GardensStop by the Kanapaha Botanical Gardens 
and explore 62 acres of gardens. Active or retired military get in for free.Matheson Museum ExhibitFrom 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Matheson 
History Museum, located at 513 East Univer-sity Ave., curators will partner with the UF Samuel Proctor Oral History Program’s Vet-
erans History Project to give presentations 
about the project and the impact of Camp Blanding and World War II on Alachua County. Local World War II veterans will be in attendance. It’s free.
Gator Guard FundraiserThe UF Gator Guard, a group of UF Army 
ROTC students, will host a frozen yogurt fundraiser from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. at Yo-gurtology, 3730 SW Archer Road in Butler Plaza. A portion of the proceeds will ben-efit the team and go toward the group’s new uniforms, traveling fees and entry fees to their competitions.
Medic WorkshopLearn how to help those in need. On 
Wednesday from 10 a.m. to noon, Heal at 
UF will equip students with the skills to deal 
with emergencies. They will teach attendees how to take vitals and stop bleeding in the Computer Science and Engineering Building, Room E220. Students interested in attend-ing can fill out a form found on the group’s event page “Makeshift Medic:  HEAL’s Fall Workshop.”
Bus Note:Getting around town may be more diffi-
cult. Because of the holiday, Regional Tran-sit System will provide reduced holiday ser-vice. Routes 1, 2, 5, 8, 11, 13, 15, 16, 20, 26 and 35 will run from about 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 
p.m. All other routes will not be running. 
For more information, visit go-rts.com/holi-day-and-reduced-service-fall/.
— By Alligator Staff Writers 
Ansley Pentz and Emily Cochrane
day off: uf and santa  fe college  will not have classes  wednesday  in honor  of veterans  dayTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Gabrielle Newman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Brittany Bennett has never audi-
tioned for a panel of judges.
That experience is one the UF 
theatre performance sophomore is 
looking for, she said, as she contin-
ues to grow as a performer.
That’s why Bennett, 19, is par-
ticipating in the 60th annual Florida 
Theatre Conference at Santa Fe Col-
lege, which begins Wednesday and 
lasts until Saturday. She is one of 
3,000 high schoolers, college stu-
dents and theater professionals who will attend the largest theater con-ference in the Southeast, according to organizers.
“What’s really interesting to me 
is that there’s a lot of opportunity to get a lot of work and a lot of expo-sure,” said Bennett, who said she is 
looking for work outside of UF and 
wants to be exposed to the produc-ers of large-scale theater produc-tions.
It’s the fifth consecutive year 
Santa Fe has hosted the event, which was chosen in part because of its location and the size of the Fine Arts Theater, said Alora Haynes, the 
chair of fine arts at Santa Fe.
“Because of our Northeast-
ern Florida location, we knew we would be a location for this confer-
ence,” Haynes said.  
The conference is separated 
into workshops hosted by middle school, high school, youth, commu-nity, drama tour and professional theater divisions.
“People come here to present 
their work to others and that is open to the entire conference,” said Terry Klenk, the secretary and treasurer of the Florida Theater Conference and a theater professor at the college.
High school and college trans-
fer auditions are also held for more 
than 45 colleges and universities, 
Klenk said.
He said the event costs about 
$80,000 to host, but participants pay about $80. This type of event, he said, is important to the Santa Fe theater department.
“As the No. 1 college in the na-
tion, we are committed to having 
and hosting these types of leader-
ship conferences,” Klenk said.3,000 theater fans to 
gather at conferenceSANTA FE
SHE WAS NAMED VICE 
PRESIDENT OF EQUINE 
ASSOCIATION.
By Spencer Harvey
Alligator Contributing Writer
Margo Macpherson loved going to 
horseback-riding camps as a child.
Now, the UF large animal repro-
duction professor will serve as the 
vice president of the American As-
sociation of Equine Practitioners. She 
will be inducted into the position Dec. 8 in Las Vegas.
Sally Baker, the AAEP director of 
marketing and public relations, said Macpherson deserves the recogni-tion. The association selects candi-dates from a pool of people who have 
served the organi-zation.
Baker said 
Macpherson has 
worked on the or-ganization’s vol-unteer board and is still currently in-volved with help-ing find a better 
way for veterinary students to apply for schools. 
Macpherson said she always 
knew she wanted to be a veterinarian because she loves horses. She came to UF to teach in 1999. She said she’s dedicated her life to equine veterinary medicine, and she’s worked hard to become a specialist in her field.  
At UF, she said she wants to serve 
as a role model to young veterinar-
ians who are realizing their dreams.
“For me, it is just about moving 
that vision forward,” Macpherson 
said.
Baker said Macpherson is pas-
sionate about making sure others feel included and welcome to the field of equine science.     
“Her warmth and her passion and 
strong communication skills really shine through when you first meet her,” she said. UF professor doesn’t horse aroundTHEY BENEFIT FROM BEING ASSERTIVE.
By Paisley Papineau
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor found women who are more assertive 
are thought to be stronger leaders.
UF business professor Klodiana Lanaj’s study was 
published in this month’s issue of the Academy of Man-agement Journal. She found that women who portrayed 
stereotypical male leadership qualities — decisive, confi-
dent and assertive — were seen as more leader-like.  
Women are typically perceived as the more commu-
nal, nurturing and helpful gender, she said.
Over the course of a year, she surveyed 181 masters 
of business administration students for her study. The students were put in groups of five, each with at least one woman, she said. They were required to manage 
themselves as they worked on a group project, and they 
evaluated each other’s leadership qualities.
She said this research is important for women inter-
ested in leadership positions.
“If you act like a leader as a woman, you’re violating 
the gender norms and are therefore less liked,” she said. “It’s important to show that it actually might be good to act leader-like on behalf of others.”
UF Jewish and women’s studies senior Leah Rob-
bins said she thinks some people may see female leaders as unnatural because they believe men usually possess leadership qualities. The 22-year-old said she hopes the study encourages women to be leaders.
“There’s no necessity to name men as being leader-
like because they are considered qualities that are innate to men,” she said.UF study: women in leadership
“What’s really interesting 
to me is that there’s a lot of 
opportunity to get a lot of 
work and a lot of exposure.”
Brittany Bennett
UF theatre performance 
sophomore
Macpherson
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
11-30-15-66-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
12-9-15-41-2
2 EXCELLENT HOMES
3 blocks north of UF O'Dome. 3BR/3.5BA & 4BR/3BA w/ enclosed courtyard. Both avail -
able Jan 1st or sooner. K & M Properties 372-1509                 12-1-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-9-15-73 -10 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $1900
95 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Designated drivers are the greatestUF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       11-13-15-20-13CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-30-15-18-13
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
The MIND Study is looking for men and 
women ages 20-30 and 60+. We will com-pare both age groups regarding brain func-tion and how it may contribute to our physi-cal strength, energy and well being. Only 3 visits to our clinic. Compensation provided. Free Parking. Call 352-273-5919    11-10-15-10-14
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab and follow the directions.    11-13-15-12-14
DAILY HOUSEKEEPER NEEDED
Must be dependable, non-smoker, with 
reliable transportation. If interested call 
(352)332-7700.    11-20-15-16-14
Part-Time Assistant Teacher at Millhopper 
Montessori School (M-F 8:30 AM - 1:00 PM). Ages 2-4 program. Starting November 30, 2015. Email mmschool@millhopper.com   11-17-15-9-14
Hiring Dine-In Supervisors @ New Dominos on Archer Rd. Host & serve dine-in customers @ 3581 SW Archer Rd Location. PT & FT Flexible hrs. All you need is a smile. Apply @ gatordominos.com    11-19-15-10-14
$ GET CASH FOR THE HOLIDAYS $For gently used clothing/accessories & fur-niture. No appt.necessary! - Sandy’s Savvy Chic Resale Boutique 4148 NW 13th St. 372-1226    12-9-15-21-14
Gator Moving & Storage Co – HIRINGPart-time – flexibility around class schedulesMust be age 21 or over with valid Florida Drive License and clean recordApply at 1950 NE 27th Ave / 352-374-4791    11-13-15-5-14
Eighth grader in need of tutoring in all sub-jects.Mon-Fri 3-6pm.Email with references and rates paula@trematerracustomhomes.com or call Mon-Fri 352 333-1945    11-16-15-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
CPR BLS ACLS PALS classes --We are Gainesville’s preferred provider. Join a class or set up your own group. Teaching Gators for over 15yrs. Safetynet of Florida. Call to-day. 800-319-5708    12-2-15-15-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/16-11/19 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.    11-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Alligator Classifieds are now online at:
<http://www.alligator.org/class>
Check it out!
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 15 Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach JC Deacon and 
Florida's  men's golf team have concluded their Fall season, but the team is already preparing to have a successful Spring. Read the story on pg. 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
McCalister named SEC Defensive Player of the Week
Florida defensive rush end Alex McCalister was named the Southeastern 
Conference Defensive Player of the Week, the league announced on Monday. McCalister had 3.5 tackles for a loss along with 2.5 sacks against Vanderbilt in Florida's 9-7 win over the Commodores on Saturday. SOUTH CAROLINA HAS 
WON THREE OF THE LAST 
FOUR GAMES AGAINST UF. 
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
Fresh off of clinching the South-
eastern Conference Eastern Divi-
sion for the first time since 2009, 
Florida’s next matchup is against a 
team that is currently trying to find its identity: South Carolina.
The No. 10 Gators and coach 
Jim McElwain will head to Wil-liams-Brice Stadium on Saturday to play the Gamecocks, whose season changed when coach Steve Spurrier abruptly resigned on Oct. 
13. 
At the beginning of the season, 
South Carolina (3-6, 1-4 SEC) had 
tempered expectations following a 
7-6 season in 2014 that concluded 
with a bowl win over Miami.
The Gamecocks were picked to 
finish fourth in the Southeastern Conference Eastern Division by the 
media— a spot ahead of Florida (8-
1, 6-1 SEC).
And while this season got off to 
a good start with a 17-13 season-opening win against North Caro-lina, the Tar Heels’ only loss this 
season, things have gone downhill for the Gamecocks since then.  
South Carolina stumbled to a 
1-4 record after the win over UNC, 
with the downfall peaking in a 45-
24 loss to LSU on Oct. 10. 
Three days later, Spurrier — the 
winningest coach in the history of 
the program — stepped aside and co-offensive coordinator and offen-
sive line coach Shawn Elliott took 
over.
But McElwain said that despite 
Spurrier’s absence, South Carolina 
is dangerous because the team has 
nothing to lose. 
“I think they’re playing for a 
lot of reasons,” McElwain said. “Obviously, he (Spurrier) built his 
legacy there. Here’s a guy who put 
them back on the map. When you turn the film on, you see how close they were.” 
Since Elliott took over, the 
Gamecocks are 1-2, with a win against the Commodores and losses to Texas A&M and a 27-24 loss to Tennessee. If it weren’t for 
a late fumble against the Volun-
teers, South Carolina would have momentum on its side when the Gators arrive. 
In their recent meetings, close 
games have been the story be-tween Florida and South Carolina.
UF has lost the last two meet-
ings against the Gamecocks, in-cluding blowing a fourth quarter lead, which ended in a 23-20 loss 
in overtime.
South Carolina has won three 
of the last four meetings and other 
than Florida’s 44-11 blowout win in Gainesville in 2012, the Game-cocks wins during that span have 
been decided by five points or less.
“It’s always a pretty good game. 
It’s always close between us,” se-
nior defensive back Brian Poole said. “Pretty much we’re excited for it. I’m sure the coach will have 
a good game plan in. If we go out 
and execute it and we should be OK.”Despite clinching SEC East, Gators aim to maintain intensity
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF coach Jim McElwain walks out of the tunnel prior to Florida's 9-7 win over Vanderbilt on 
Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
SOCCER
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
After securing the program’s 11th South-
eastern Conference Tournament title, the 
No. 6 Florida soccer team claimed a No. 2 
seed for the 2015 NCAA Tournament.
The Gators found out Monday that their  
impressive record combined with SEC 
regular season and tournament titles were 
enough to secure a top spot in the tourna-
ment, which will be Florida’s 19th NCAA appearance.
UF (17-3-1, 8-2-1 SEC) is riding a nine-
game winning streak heading into the 
postseason tournament and will take on 
Western Michigan, the winners of the Mid-Atlantic Conference, in the first round of the NCAA Tournament on Saturday at 7 p.m. at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
It will be the first time in program his-
tory that the Gators will take on the Western Michigan Broncos.
Coach Becky Burleigh said she thinks 
that the experiences her team has had this 
season have the Gators prepared for the tournament stage.
“This group has had a lot of dress re-
hearsals for things,” Bur-leigh said. 
“They’ve had a lot of 
chances to work on what it feels like to be in those 
pressure situations.”
Last season, the Gators 
received a No. 2 seed in 
the NCAA tournament 
and were knocked out in the quarterfinals round when they traveled to Palo Alto, Cali-fornia, falling to Stanford in a penalty kick shootout 4-3, after tying the game 2-2.
If the Gators advance past the first three 
rounds of the 2015 NCAA Tournament, Florida to host NCAA opener
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17 
It took 25 years for the Auburn volley-
ball team to finally beat the Gators under coach Mary Wise. 
After nine consecutive wins, Florida 
dropped a five-set heartbreaker to Auburn on Sunday, the first time the Gators have lost to the Tigers since Wise took over as 
head coach in 1991. 
The defeat marks the fourth confer-
ence loss for Florida this season, just the 
second time in Wise’s tenure where the Gators lost that many Southeastern Con-
ference matches.
Throughout the match, the Gators were 
hindered by their sloppy service play that 
kept the team from consistently getting 
into a rhythm. Florida committed 15 service errors 
— a three-error-per-set average that was slightly above the 2.4 errors per set they 
averaged this season heading into the match. 
In the SEC, a league with increased 
volleyball parity, committing so many un-
forced errors creates a deep hole to climb 
out of, even for a top team like the Gators. 
“It’s one of those things, you try in 
practice to create those moments, but it’s nothing like the match,” Wise said. 
“On the road, the margin of error is so UF volleyball focused on 
improving careless play
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15 SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
Burleigh
“On the road, the margin of error is 
so thin...a couple of serves would have 
been the difference.”
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coach14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
UF CLAIMED ITS FIRST VICTORY 
UNDER DEACON ON OCT. 27.
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Writer
@MattB_727
The Fall season may be over, but No. 9 
Florida is already looking to get back into the 
swing of things for Spring. 
Coach JC Deacon finished the Fall with 
his first UF victory. The Gators won the Flor-ida Gulf Coast University Classic on Oct. 27 
by an incredible 42-stroke margin. 
Over the course of the whooping win at 
the Old Corkscrew Golf Club, Deacon was 
able to learn a lot about the team’s strengths. 
“The best thing about our team right now 
is the depth that we have,” Deacon said. “I think we were leading by 20 something shots going into the final round.
“And because our guys are so competitive 
and there’s so much depth, they all knew they had to play well just so their teammates didn’t pass them on the final round.”
But now the team has to shift its focus, 
and they have to figure out how to carry the momentum from that win through the off-season and into Spring. 
The first thing Deacon wants is to make 
sure his players are rested and ready by the 
time Spring rolls around. 
He said he encourages his players to take 
a week or two off because of the demanding 
schedule in September and October. 
Deacon also wants to make sure the play-
ers don’t lose sight of the reason they’re here in the first place: to go to school. 
Older guys like Ryan Orr and Conor Rich-
ardson do a good job of setting a high stan-dard when it comes to academics, ensuring 
everyone stays caught up with schoolwork, 
Deacon said. 
But the team also has to keep its golf 
game sharp. 
And many of UF’s golfers will be compet-
ing in tournaments individually to ward off any rust. “All of our guys, especially the starters 
in the lineup, they’re going to be playing at least two competitive tournaments,” Deacon said. 
“And that’s all on their own accord.”Deacon estimated that seven Gators are 
planning to compete in the South Beach In-ternational Amateur in Miami Beach before 
the holidays. 
Two of Florida’s international golfers, 
freshman Jorge Garcia of Venezuela and sophomore Alejandro Tosti of Argentina, 
will be participating in the Latin America Amateur Championship in the Dominican Republic in January. 
The winner of the tournament will get a 
spot in the Masters in April. 
Deacon said he is excited for the two to 
compete, especially with an opportunity to 
watch one of his players play in one of the 
biggest tournaments in golf.
“With something like a Masters spot on 
the line, it’s so easy to motivate them,” Dea-con said. 
“They know what’s on the line. You don’t 
have to tell them to get up and get working; they do it on their own.”
Overall, the Fall season was one of drastic 
improvement for the Gators. 
After finishing seventh in its first two 
tournaments, the team found a spark and placed top-five in its remaining three tourna-ments. 
Deacon has always attributed his team’s 
success or failures to the mental aspect of golf. 
And his reaction to the Fall season was 
no different, emphasizing the team’s positive energy.
“(They’re) a great bunch of guys to be 
around,” Deacon said. “They’re working hard in school now. And the program’s re-
ally starting to build into what we all thought 
it could be.”
“They’re stronger as a group together. 
They’re working harder than they ever have. 
And I’m really, really excited for a bigtime 
Spring.”With conclusion of Fall season, Gators turn focus to Spring
Alligator File Photo
Sophomore Alejandro T osti putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational on 
Feb. 14 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
CROSS COUNTRY
By Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
“Forget the (other) teams.”
With three words, Florida 
cross country coach Paul Spangler 
summarized his team’s perspec-
tive leading into this weekend’s NCAA South Regional Champion-ships.
Cut out the white noise.Stick to the race plan.Run the race you’re capable of.That last point, however, has 
proved contentious in the weeks 
building up to Friday’s meet in 
Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
The talent is there, but races 
aren’t won on paper. 
The Gators, this late into the 
2015 campaign, are still seeking to tap into unfulfilled potential.
“What we didn’t have on the 
men’s side is production out of 
our 3, 4 and 5,” Spangler noted.
“And certainly, that was some-
thing going into the race that we 
needed to have for us to be suc-
cessful and achieve our goals as 
a team.”
The women suffer from the 
same condition.
“I know Maddox (Patterson) 
did a good job as our fourth run-ner, but we didn’t quite have the production that we needed out of our fifth runner. We would’ve liked to have our fourth runner 
farther up, so those things affect-
ed our team score.”
Talent isn’t the issue — far 
from it.
Backing up leaders Clark and 
Garcia, redshirt junior Mac Reyn-olds, freshman Jack Guyton and redshirt senior Charles Chambers legged out collegiate personal 
bests.
The women’s depth runners 
— freshmen Elisabeth Bergh and 
Patterson and redshirt sopho-
more Becky Greene — turned in 
workman-like performances, with freshman duo Bergh and Patter-son running collegiate best 6ks.
The team, both men and wom-
en, need to run as a unit.
It’s a problem that’s common 
across team sports, amplified in contests where the component of 
the individual factors into overall 
success.
Find a football team that has 
scored a touchdown with 11 play-ers on 11 different pages of the 
playbook.
Point out a soccer team that 
hasn’t gotten blown out with for-
wards, midfielders and defense-
men running different formations.
Teamwork breeds success, and 
for these Gators, adhering to the 
race plan and fulfilling their roles will prove crucial if they hope to find success at the home of the 
Alabama Crimson Tide.
The skill isn’t latent — the 
men’s contingent has defeated all 
others in the region, the excep-
tion being Ole Miss.
What it boils down to is stay-ing calm and trusting the runners 
behind you to do their job.
“We’ve got to do a better job 
of following the race plan. And we have a lot of guys can fill in that 3 4 and 5 spot, and so we’ve 
got to go out there and run as a 
team,” Spangler said.“Jimmy and Eddie are going to 
do their thing up front, just like 
they’ve always done, and then 
our other five guys are going to go out there and run as a team.
“That’s what we’ve got to do 
to be successful.”
UF hoping deep roster makes impact at NCAA Regionals 
Danielle Veenstra/ Alligator Staff
UF’s Eddie Garcia (157) leads the pack during the Mountain Dew Invitational on Sept. 19 at the 
Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Florida will have the chance to again trav-
el to California to take on the No. 1 seeded Stanford Cardinal, in the case that the lat-
ter team wins in the first three rounds of the 
tournament.
The NCAA Tournament starts on Nov. 13 
at multiple locations around the country and 
culminates with the Women’s College Cup in 
Cary, North Carolina, on Dec. 4 and Dec. 6.
Burleigh isn’t focused on the past or the 
potential opponents, but rather she wants her team to focus on continuing to grow.
“The most important thing for us is that 
we win the interval,” Burleigh said. 
“The interval is from now until we play 
again. We feel the teams that are going to 
win this thing in the big picture are the teams 
that continue to get better even during this part of the season.”
Burleigh said the prospect of hosting por-
tions of the postseason tournament are nice, 
but the team can only control their own 
personal performances and have to put in the work on the field to succeed down the stretch.
“Seeding, whether you’re playing at 
home, the opponents, all of that is just totally out of our control,” Burleigh said. 
“We’ve done what we can to control that 
with the results during the season and now 
we just await it.”TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
SOCCER,  from pg13The Gators play W estern Michigan on Saturday at 7 p.m.thin ... a couple of serves would 
have been the difference.”
Florida’s offense was not the 
well-oiled machine that had been attacking opposing teams as of late. 
On the season, the Gators (18-
5, 10-4 SEC) are hitting a .317 clip as team. 
However, Florida was far 
from its normal self on Sunday against the Tigers. 
The Gators posted just a .206 
hitting clip, one of the lowest marks the team has hit all sea-son. 
The Gators averaged 5.2 at-
tack errors per set on Sunday, well above their average of 3.9 errors per set heading into the match.
Sophomore middle blocker 
Rhamat Alhassan had an off-night, too, tallying nine kills on an inefficient .067 hitting. 
“Credit to Auburn. I thought 
their team (showed) such resil-iency, played terrific defense,” Wise said. 
“We weren’t able to generate 
enough kills, and we certainly didn’t do as good a job as we’ve done in the past in terms of our blocking.” 
With the loss, Florida fell to 
0-4 in five-set matches and has 
not won this season when trail-
ing its opponent in total kills. The Gators recorded 63 kills 
compared to Auburn’s 65. 
The defeat overshadowed a 
standout performance by Nikki 
O’Rourke. 
While the offense sputtered, 
the senior defensive specialist 
compiled a career-best 33 digs — good enough for third-most 
in school history — to keep the 
Gators competitive.
The match against the Tigers 
marked the first time this sea-
son that the starting lineup  of 
O’Rourke, Alhassan, Simone An-twi, Ziva Recek, Carli Snyder, Mackenzie Dagostino and Alex Holston has lost. 
Prior to Sunday, Florida had 
been a dominant 13-0 when starting this lineup.
After winning nine games in a 
row, the Gators will now have to refocus, something coach Wise believes is easier to accomplish after a tough loss. 
“You learn much more from a 
loss than a win," Wise said. 
"We look at it as a great op-
portunity to learn.”
With five games left they will 
need to regain the consistency they had during their recent winning streak when they play Alabama and Tennessee at home this weekend. 
“Both teams (are) playing 
their best volleyball right now,” Wise said. 
“Another great opportunity 
for our team to get better.”VOLLEYBALL,  from pg13Florida is 0-4 in five-set matches this season
The Gamecocks are searching 
for their statement win under El-liott and the Gators can provide 
that opportunity. Florida was un-
impressive offensively in its win against Vanderbilt, gaining just 258 yards of offense on just 12 first 
downs. 
Florida might also be without 
two defensive leaders on Saturday as Jon Bullard and Keanu Neal’s 
statuses are up in the air after they sustained injuries against Vander-bilt. 
McElwain said Bullard is deal-
ing with an arm injury and that he is doubtful for the game, while Neal is dealing with a foot injury and is questionable. 
With the way the Gators played 
and the injuries to two of their defensive stalwarts, McElwain is aware that Saturday’s game could be a trap for Florida if UF comes 
out uninspired having already se-
cured a spot in the SEC title game.
“They beat, what, a whatev-
er-and-one North Carolina team 
that’s playing lights out now,” 
McElwain said. 
“They’ve been in all these 
games. I don’t want to be that guy that lets them get over the hump.”FOOTBALL,  from pg13Gamecocks 
are 1-2 
with Elliott
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan goes up for a kill during Florida's 3-0 win 
against T exas A&M on Oct. 9 in the O'Connell Center. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF coach Becky Burleigh puts her arms around two players following Florida's 4-0 win over Arkansas on Oct. 25 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. The Gators are the No. 2 regional seed in the NCAA T ournament. 16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2015
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Writer
@ebaueri
After last year’s uninspiring 13-17 
record — the worst in Amanda But-
ler’s tenure as head coach — the UF women’s basketball program needed a change.
Normally when a program is 
struggling, that change comes in the form of a new head coach, as Florida fans know all too well with the fate of former head football coach Will Muschamp. 
But before Muschamp was axed 
during last season, a season after ﬁ  nishing with a 4-8 record, he was given a chance to prove himself.
Instead of canning him, Florida 
instead looked to his supporting cast. UF ﬁ  red then-offensive coordinator Brent Pease and hired Duke’s Kurt Roper, because the problem seemed to be primarily a sputtering offense. 
When that only led to further dis-
appointment, removing Muschamp was the next step. 
Butler is under less pressure, 
because while the teams she has coached have never been over-achievers up to this point in her ten-ure, they’ve also never been as bad as last season. So, like with Brent Pease, the 
Gators looked to assistant coaches 
to get the program back on track by 
bringing in two major new faces.
First is Bill Ferrara, who coaches 
guards, and then there’s Shimmy Gray-Miller, who coaches the post players with tenured assistant coach Murriel Page. 
While both of them are, in all 
likelihood, adept at coaching their 
respective position groups, they are 
perhaps most poised to make their impact on the recruiting trail. 
This year, the Gators have ﬁ  ve 
seniors or redshirt seniors on the roster. Therefore, replenishing the talent pool will be crucial to Florida ﬁ  nding success beyond this season. 
The responsibility to ﬁ  ll up the 
roster should fall largely on the shoulders of Gray-Miller, who is the team’s recruiting coordinator. How-ever, she said that even though she is technically the team’s top recruit-er, all four coaches are unusually skilled in that area.
“It’s a little different than any-
where I’ve ever worked because you’ve got three assistants and a head coach who are all great recruit-ers,” she said. 
“(Murriel) Page was the acting 
recruiting coordinator before I got here, Butler’s been a recruiting coor-dinator when she was an assistant, Bill (Ferrara) has been a recruiting 
coordinator, so we all came here 
with our own areas.”
According to Ferrara, one thing 
that sets Florida apart is that it doesn’t stop recruiting players once they commit — in fact, their commu-nications only intensify. 
“Every single day,” he said in 
response to how often the coaching 
staff talks to committed players. 
Stealing from Pete Carroll’s phi-
losophy, Ferrara said that as a coach, 
you start coaching players once they commit rather than when they arrive on campus. 
“Every single day, all of us will 
be reaching out to them about dif-ferent things. It could be serious, 
something as serious as you’ve got 
to get your application in. … It’s re-ally exciting for me to get a chance to start coaching them now before they sign,” Ferrara said. 
While the class of 2016 will likely 
bring in some future contributors, only nearby Baker County standout Delicia Washington is rated as a top-
100 recruit by espnW. 
The 2017 class, however, current-
ly features three players in the top 100. That could be a real program 
changer for Florida, which isn’t a 
traditional recruiting powerhouse in 
women’s basketball. 
The top-rated player in UF’s 2017 
class is Karissa McLaughlin, who is the 11th rated point guard in the cycle. She said that UF’s coaches separated themselves from the pack by focusing on her development as a whole.
“They were just so welcoming 
to me. You could tell that they were recruiting me for the right reasons — not only as a basketball player, but as a person,” she said.
“I knew the coaches and the play-
ers were the people who I wanted to surround myself with so that when I leave college I’ll be the best person I 
could possibly be.”
Sherri Anthony, who coaches 
2016 commit Sydney Searcy, said 
that even as an outsider looking in on how the Florida coaching staff recruited Searcy, they still made a good impression. 
“They were very good about ev-
erything,” she said.
“I could not have asked for better 
mentoring, courting, however you wanna put it, recruiting from all the coaches. They were very, very kind to her, they obviously followed all the regulations, explained all the reg-ulations to me, explained the regula-tions to her parents.” 
It seems that the coaching chang-
es that have been made have already helped greatly on the recruiting front, but only time will tell if the changes will translate to on-court success.
With that in mind, it’s important 
to remember that the Gator fan base is typically impatient with losing teams. However, barring an unheard of meltdown this season, it’s likely 
that this coaching staff will get a 
chance to bring in recruits and prove that last season was only an outlier. 
Gators hoping new assistant coaches improve recruiting
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida women’s basketball coach Amanda Butler does the Gator chomp during Gators Madness on 
Oct. 2 in the O’Connell Center. 
