VOLUME 109 ISSUE 98 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Burrito Brothers expanding, requests donations
The restaurant plans to more than triple its space, pg 8.  
Stolen bike found by UPD before owner notices it’s missing
The reported thief violated his campus trespass warning, pg 5. 
Florida lacrosse looking for quick 
turnaround after season-opening loss
UF lost to UNC 17-11, pg. 14. Michael Frazier 
II is doubtful to play 
in Florida’s game 
against Ole Miss on 
Thursday. Read the 
story on Page 13.
66/39
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Tyler Richards, an 18-year-old UF biomedical engineering freshman, speaks with a student about Access Party’s platform. Members of Access Party and Swamp Party stood around Turlington Plaza asking students for their input about issues that affected them.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Students walking through campus were 
met with wide grins from political party rep-
resentatives holding large white notepads.
Swamp Party and Access Party began 
platform generation Monday, a process in 
which the parties crowdsource ideas to ap-
ply to their campaign platforms.
Candidates running with Access spent 
the afternoon on Turlington Plaza and  North Lawn, where they urged students to 
write out their suggestions to improve cam-
pus life.
Steven Critelli, 23, scribbled on Access’s 
board, “more covered outdoor seats.”  
The UF German studies junior said he fre-
quently eats by Little Hall Express and ﬁ  nds 
it difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd seating. He said he chose to write his idea on Access’s board because he liked the values of the new party.
“I like the idea of transparency,” he said.
Heather Converse, 27, pointed out an 
idea she liked on Swamp’s board. The UF 
anthropology junior said she agreed that a bike-rental program would be useful. She said similar rental systems are common in places like Israel and European countries.
“It saves a lot of gas, and in Gainesville, 
it’s super effective,” she said.
Swamp platform generation will contin-
ue today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas and Turlington Plaza, as well as at the Reitz Union. Access will continue 
today from 10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Reitz 
Union and also on Turlington Plaza.Swamp, Access parties crowdsource for platforms
JAMES MCLAUGHLIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A crowd of UF students cheered and 
laughed at stories and entrepreneurial advice shared by a self-made fashion designer and TV star Monday evening in the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
Daymond John, the founder of fash-
ion company For Us By Us — known as FUBU — and co-star of hit TV show “Shark Tank,” shared his rise to promi-nence and tips for entrepreneurial suc-cess with UF students. John, in an event hosted by Accent Speaker’s Bureau and the Black Student Union, spoke to a half-full Phillips Center for about two hours, 
including a Q&A session.John, who grew up in a single-parent 
home with his mother in Hollis, Queens, 
worked at a local Red Lobster. He said he transformed his life by following his passions for the emerging genre of hip-hop.
The “Shark Tank” star said he be-
friended local hip-hop artists such as LL Cool J and noticed a rapidly growing and untapped market.
“Hip-hop was amazing, and I had 
to ﬁ  nd a way to be part of hip-hop,” he said.
John said he originally started by sell-
ing hip-hop-branded hats outside the Coliseum Mall and realized he was on to 
something.‘Shark Tank’ star shares 
advice, success story 
SEE SHARK, PAGE 4 HIS BROTHER DONATED THE 
MARROW.
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
Chris Abeleda now has two birthdays.
On Jan. 23, the UF psychology junior cel-
ebrated his bone marrow transplant, the ﬁ  rst day of what he and his family pray will be a healthy year.
Abeleda, 21, was a freshman when he was 
diagnosed with Acute Lymphoblastic Leuke-mia, a cancer of the blood and bone marrow, in January 2013.
In the bone marrow wing of UF Health 
Shands Cancer Hospital recently, he leaned back on the couch and shrugged, unfazed by the IVs and his guests’ yellow hospital masks. There is a keyboard and a treadmill in two of the corners.
“It never really hit me as a big deal,” 
Abeleda said.
But it was a big deal to his family. His 
24-year-old brother, CJ, and 25-year-old sis-ter, Mara, are no strangers to his room. The pair planned extended stays in Gainesville while Abeleda went through a new round of treatment.
Sharing his brother’s love of sports and 
his sister’s artsy side, Abeleda is often called a hybrid of the two. 
Hearing they were both perfect bone mar-
row matches rendered that even more true.
As a male, CJ Abeleda presented the best 
opportunity for a successful donation, and he said he was honored to do it.
“When I’m old and gray, it will still be the 
luckiest thing I got to do,” he said.UF student preps for senior year 
after bone marrow transplant
SEE CHRIS, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 98 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY TODAYFORECAST
SUNNY
61/30SUNNY
55/30SUNNY
72/30SUNNY
68/39PARTLY 
CLOUDY
66/39WEDNESDAY
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Keep Hope Alive: A Suicide 
Awareness Vigil
For its third year, Keep Hope Alive will bring to-gether musical guests, 
spoken-word artists and a 
panel of mental health pro-fessionals and advocates to discuss what is an all-too-pervasive and often unspo-ken issue: suicide. It will be held Wednesday from 6:15 to 8 p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora. Concluding 
with a candlelight vigil on 
the Plaza of the Americas, this event will provide at-tendees an opportunity to honor the lives lost to sui-cide each year and to con-tinue working to keep hope alive. For more informa-tion, go to facebook.com/
events/1589946984550698/.
Cupid’s Consent Event
Attend Cupid’s Consent 
Event on Thursday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas. There will be relationship-building games and activities. Visit 
all the booths to collect 
prizes, including a free T-shirt. Visitors can also get a picture taken with Cupid. Like the Facebook.com/STRIVEUF page or go to ga-torwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive for more information.
Screening of ‘Girl Rising’
From Academy Award-nominated director Richard E. Robbins, “Girl Rising” journeys around the globe to witness the strength of the human spirit and the power of education to change the world. Viewers get to know 
nine unforgettable girls liv-
ing in the developing world, ordinary girls who confront tremendous challenges and overcome nearly impos-sible odds to pursue their dreams. Prize-winning au-thors put the girls’ remark-able stories into words, and 
renowned actors give them 
voice. A discussion will fol-low the screening, which will be Thursday at 3 p.m. at the UF International Center.
GatorNights
Get away from the crazy Valentine cliche at the 
Love Me/Love Me Not 
GatorNights event this Friday from 8 p.m. un-til 1 a.m. Sweethearts can snuggle through the Tunnel of Love. Take pictures to-gether and make memo-ries that will last as long as your relationship does. On 
the flip side, take out that 
pent-up anger on a friend at the Battle Games inflat-ables. Attendees can forget all about the negativity by WHAT’S HAPPENING?
 Gator Wesley Love Campaign
The Gator Wesley Foundation is having its annual love cam-paign this week. They will 
be tabling on the Plaza of 
the Americas and Turlington Plaza, asking the question “What is Love?” so stop to give an answer.
Bridging the Gap project
The Counseling and Wellness Center’s AWARE (Awareness 
Wellness Ambassadors 
Reaching Everyone) will be tabling today from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas as well as display-ing images of bridges; of-tentimes, there is a negative connotation between suicide and bridges. Their intention 
with this event is to reframe 
that idea to bridging the gap between suicide and seeking help/mental health services. They will have ambassadors and counselors presenting in-formation on the myths and facts of suicide so as to better prepare students to recognize 
the signs of suicide and to in-
tervene, all while providing information on local resourc-es.
Hippodrome Relaunches 
Cinema Lounge program with ‘Hermitage Revealed’The Hippodrome Cinema 
will be reinvigorating its 
Cinema Lounge film series for its third consecutive year with a special-interest docu-mentary that explores one of the world’s oldest and largest art museums in “Hermitage Revealed” today at 7 p.m. To celebrate the State Hermitage 
Museum’s 250th anniversary, 
doors will be open to allow a special look into its vast col-lection. Viewers will get a spe-cial look into collections not on public display, as well as the museum’s array of galler-ies, some including the works of Rembrandt, Michelangelo 
and Matisse. Admission 
is $10. The Hippodrome Cinema is located inside the Hippodrome State Theatre at 25 SE Second Place. For a complete listing of films and additional showtimes, please visit thehipp.org.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets TuesdaysTalking Gators meet today at 5:45 p.m. in Room 1031 of the Entomology Building off of Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. For more information go to talkinggators.toastmas-
tersclubs.org. Talking Gators 
is also on Facebook. The mis-sion of Toastmasters is to pro-vide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and 
personal growth. All are wel-
come.\watching “Horrible Bosses 2” 
and live comedy from Jenny 
Zigrino. It’s free with a Gator 1 Card.
Cinema Verde seeks vendors
The sixth annual Cinema Verde Environmental Film and Arts Festival is seeking environmentally conscious 
vendors for its Eco-fair tak-
ing place Saturday at the Paramount Plaza Hotel. Please contact Trish@cin-emaverde.org.  For more in-formation about the festival, visit cinemaverde.org/.
Valentines for Veterans Spirit 
of America, Gainesville Civic Chorus Master ChoraleMusic is the poetry of the air. Its use has made a powerful impact during times of war; it bolstered those serving on the front lines as well as those waiting at home. Come hear songs that helped those in 
battle or eulogized those who 
passed in the name of free-dom. Join us in saluting our veterans in song Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the First United Methodist Church, 419 NE First St. For more informa-tion, visit GCChorus.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after above events, and 
keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Max Eisenberg / Alligator 
Dan Mathews, senior vice president of media campaigns for PETA, 
speaks to an audience in Pugh Hall on Monday night about marketing strategies used by the organization.
CAMPUS
ALEXANDRA BOOTH
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students trying to find out more about animal 
rights Monday evening got more than they bar-
gained for.
Dan Mathews, the senior vice president of me-
dia campaigns for PETA, discussed ethical treat-ment of animals and some of the more risque mar-keting campaigns the organization uses.
In a speech peppered with graphic images of 
naked celebrities and footage of animals being slaughtered, Mathews addressed a crowd of about 30 in Pugh Hall hosted by the Bob Graham Cen-ter. Earlier in the day he spoke to the Florida Free 
Speech Forum.
Mathews said one of PETA’s most well-known 
campaigns is the one titled “Rather Be Naked 
Than Wear Fur,” where celebrities, like Wendy 
Williams and Steve-O, pose nude for free to raise 
awareness of animal rights.
During his presentation, Mathews unveiled a 
new photo in the campaign featuring P!nk, which will go on display during New York Fashion 
Week.
PETA, which stands for People for the Ethical 
Treatment of Animals, uses celebrities in some 
of its advertisements to reach people who aren’t 
watching the news, Mathews said.
“We live in such an aspirational culture. People 
are obsessed with celebrities,” he said. “That’s 
why we rely on celebrities for our ads.”
The ads most effective at making change, 
though, he said, are the ones with footage of what’s happening to animals in slaughterhouses and farms.
Mathews showed a few videos during his pre-sentation, including Tim Gunn in an information-al video about fur in the fashion industry, Jason Biggs in a commercial speaking out against Sea-World and Peter Dinklage discussing why people 
should leave animal products off their plates by 
showing footage of slaughterhouses.
After Mathews finished speaking, there was a 
Q&A session with Gail Sasnett-Stauffer, the assis-tant director of public programs for the Bob Gra-
ham Center.
In the audience was Shelby Nix, a UF animal 
science senior, who found out about the presenta-
tion through her public speaking class.
“I (wanted) to experience more powerful pub-
lic speaking,” she said, “and (see how he could) convince a roomful of people of something they may or may not believe in.”PETA discusses marketing methods, 
use of nudes to attract attention
 Khloé Kardashian
 Sasha Grey
 Pamela Anderson
 Holly Madison
 Audrina Patridge
 Taraji P. Henson
 Olivia Munn
 Laura Vandervoort
 Alexandra Burke
 Eva Mendes
 Karina Smirnoff
 Lisa EdelsteinCelebrities who appeared naked in 
PETA advertisements:
Sourced from Peta.org/video/id-rather-go-naked-than-wear-fur/4, ALLIGATOR � TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Daymond John, branding expert, speaks about entrepreneurship to a crowd at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts on Monday. The cast member on ABC’s “Shark Tank” was brought to UF by the Black Student Union and Accent Speaker’s Bureau.
He gave ‘shark points’ 
of advice to audience
“In one hour I sold $800 worth of those hats,” he said.
John, with the help of friends and his mother, started the FUBU 
brand. For two years he and his friends snuck onto different video sets and had rappers wear his clothing line.
After taking $300,000 in orders for their clothes, John said he and 
his mom decided to take a second equity mortgage out on their house and turn it into a makeshift factory.
“We slept in sleeping bags next to the sewing machines for the 
next year,” John said.
Soon, Samsung inked a deal with FUBU as a strategic partner un-
der the condition that the company sell $5 million worth of clothes in three years. 
Instead, they sold more than $30 million in three months.FUBU’s worth spiked to about $350 million, John said.
“If you cannot see or visualize a target, you will never hit it,” John 
said as one of his five “shark points” to students.
He said the success affected him personally, as his wife left him for 
being away too often and straying away from what he loves.
John said he eventually grew a passion for helping young 
entrepreneurs,which led him to join “Shark Tank.”
“They desperately needed a token smart guy on ‘Shark Tank,’” he 
said jokingly.
Students seemed receptive to his advice and stories.Megan Touton, a 21-year-old UF finance major, said she was in-
spired by the talk.
“I wanted to be an entrepreneur,” she said. “ It’s great to hear 
from successful entrepreneurs about not just their success but their 
failures.”SHARK , from page 1
Courtesy to the Alligator
From left: Mara Abeleda, 25, Chris Abeleda, 21, CJ Abeleda, 24, Chris’ mother Victoria 
Abeleda, and father Charlie Abeleda, embrace the morning before CJ Abeleda under -
goes bone marrow donation surgery.
Courtesy to the Alligator
From left: CJ Abeleda embraces his brother, Chris Abeleda, before Chris Abeleda un -
dergoes bone marrow transplant surgery. Earlier that day, CJ underwent surgery to donate the bone marrow used in the transplant.
Friends, family excited for Abeleda’s journey back to health
“I have to do what he says now,” Abeleda 
laughed, then got serious. “No, I’m lucky. It’s nice knowing they would do that for me. I would do that for them.”
“Hope for Hopper,” named for Abeleda’s 
childhood nickname, began as a team for UF’s annual Light the Night Walk in 2013, where he was the “honored hero.”
Now, friends and family can follow his 
journey to health on the “Hope for Hopper” Facebook page, which has also been chroni-cling the 18 days since the transplant.
Most of them choose the face-to-face 
route, however. He’s known as the celebrity on his hospital floor.
Avi Khorran said he and Abeleda clicked 
on move-in day freshman year when they were randomly assigned to bunk together in 
Tolbert Hall.
They talked until 5 a.m., played guitar 
and took a trip to Krispy Kreme. Now, the 
20-year-old UF biology junior just can’t wait to have his best friend back at school with him.
It’s a mental game, he said, and all he can 
do is be there for him.
Abeleda’s room is often packed during the 
day, Khorran said, so he takes the night shift.
“He knows everyone,” Khorran said. “Ev-
eryone loves him. I wanted to be like him, 
and now he’s inspired me even more.”
After taking his freshman Spring semes-
ter off for treatment, Abeleda returned his 
sophomore year and earned a coveted spot 
as a Florida Cicerone, following his alumna 
sister’s path.Abeleda didn’t expect to leave junior year 
early, but he chose to get treated at Shands to stay close to his friends and family.
His girlfriend, Kristyn Wong, sleeps over 
often.
The UF health science junior comes over 
to play Heads Up, watch the newest episodes 
of “Gotham” and just talk.
“He’s a strong person,” Wong, 20, said. 
“He’s determined in everything he does.”
From a Cicerone to a basketball player to 
a singer and guitar player, Abeleda seems to do it all — even in the confines of his hospital room, even as he loses his hair.
He never once complained, Khorran said, 
even before he got sick. He’s a tough guy.
When Abeleda first got sick, he called it a 
big flu, saying he’d be back in record time.
This time, he’s not thinking any differ-
ently.
“I can’t wait for him to keep getting bet-
ter. I can’t wait to play basketball together 
again,” Khorran said. “I’m looking forward to spending senior year together.” CHRIS , from page 1TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Carla Vianna / Alligator Staff
The front of the Hallmark store in the Oaks Mall shows a “store clos -
ing sign” on Thursday afternoon. The locally owned store, which has 
been open for 37 years, will close the last week of February.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Newlyweds Darren Garrison and Alton Way pose for a photo after getting married in Big Spring Park in Huntsville, Alabama, on Monday. The United States Supreme Court ordered Alabama to issue licenses to same-sex couples despite an Alabama justice’s disapproval of a federal ruling.
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MONTGOMERY, Ala. — Ala-
bama’s chief justice built his career 
on defiance: In 2003, Roy Moore was forced from the bench for disobey-
ing a federal court order to remove 
a boulder-size Ten Commandments monument from the state court-house.
On Monday, as Alabama became 
the 37th state where gays can legally wed, Moore took a defiant stand again, employing the kind of states’ rights language used during the Civil War era and again during the civil rights movement.
He argued that a federal judge’s 
Jan. 23 ruling striking down the Bible Belt state’s same-sex-marriage 
ban was an illegal intrusion on 
Alabama’s sovereignty. And he de-manded the state’s probate judges refuse marriage licenses to same-sex couples.
Same-sex marriage arrived in the 
Deep South state of Alabama to a mixture of joy, calls for defiance and confusion, as some probate judg-es indicated they were uncertain whether to issue the licenses after 
Moore’s directive.
At least seven of Alabama’s 67 
counties dispensed marriage li-censes to same-sex couples. Jubilant 
couples emerged from courthouses 
in Birmingham and Montgomery to 
cheers and applause while waving marriage licenses over their heads. Ministers presided at weddings on sidewalks and in parks.
Other counties refused to dis-
pense such licenses or shut down their marriage license operations altogether, citing confusion about 
what the law required.
Moore’s 11th-hour effort to block 
same-sex weddings brought im-
mediate comparisons to Alabama Gov. George Wallace’s 1960s vow of “segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever” and his fight against what he portrayed as the tyranny of the federal govern-
ment.
On Monday morning, the U.S. 
Supreme Court refused to block the 
start of same-sex marriages in Ala-bama.
Moore bristled at the comparison 
to Wallace and disputed the notion that same-sex marriage is a civil rights issue.
“This is not about the right of 
people to be recognized with race or creed or color,” he said. “This is about same-sex marriage. It is not the same subject.”Marriage equality comes to Alabama with Supreme Court helpEMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer
ecochrane@alligator.org
University Police arrested 
a Gainesville man Sunday evening for reportedly steal-ing a bike and violating a campus trespass warning.
At about 
6 p.m., Cur-tis Craw-ford, 50, 
of 1900 SE Fourth St., was found riding a white bi-
cycle north 
on Buckman Drive, accord-
ing to a police report. Police stopped him for violation of an October trespass warning from UF’s campus.
Crawford reportedly stole 
a $400 Motobecane Hybrid Adventure Elite bicycle from 
a bike rack outside Marston 
Science Library. UF mechani-cal engineering sophomore Kent Meredith, 20, parked the bike at about 3 p.m. while working on a project in the 
basement. He said he didn’t 
notice it was missing until about 8:30 p.m.
“My first thought was, 
‘There’s no way my bike ac-tually got stolen,’” Meredith said. “You hear about stuff like this happening, but you never think it would happen to you.”
He searched all the bike 
racks near Marston, Turling-ton and the Music Building before reporting the theft to the police just before 10 p.m.
Meredith said he didn’t 
think he would get the bike back because it was not regis-tered with University Police. 
Despite that, he was called 
before finishing his 30-minute walk home from the police station. His bike had been found.
“Honestly, I was shocked 
at how fortunate I had been — beyond thrilled,” he said.
Police searched Crawford 
after his arrest and found wire cutters and bolt cutters in his bag, according to the re-port. Police also found a black combination cable lock in the bushes on the side of the road, UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Barber wrote in an email.
Police arrested Crawford 
on charges of theft, loitering, trespassing and possession of burglary tools. 
Officers took him to the 
Alachua County Jail, where he remained as of press time in lieu of a $25,000 bond.Stolen bike found by 
UPD before owner notices it’s missing
Crawford
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Shoppers scanned rows of holi-
day cards Thursday morning — one 
of their last chances at The Oaks Mall Hallmark.
“You’d be surprised at how 
many people don’t see the sign,” said owner Dave DeLongy as he straightened a tall, red sign: “STORE CLOSING. CLEARANCE SALE.”
Locally owned stores may be 
scarce in shopping malls, but De-Longy and his wife have owned the Hallmark since the mall opened in 1978. Since then, DeLongy said he’s 
been working “6.2 days a week” at 
the store, which will close the last week of February.  
The couple has owned three 
stores at the mall, but Hallmark is the one that stuck.
“It’s been a major part of our life 
for 37 years,” he said. “You’re mar-ried to your business if you want to 
do it correctly.”
Sales dropped in 2009 while rent 
and other costs rose steadily, De-
Longy said. With the Feb. 28 lease end looming, DeLongy and his wife considered retirement. After reach-ing out for a lease renewal and re-ceiving no response from General Growth Properties, which owns the 
mall, DeLongy accepted the closure.
David Keating, the GGP vice 
president of corporate communica-
tions, declined to comment.
“No sour grapes,” DeLongy said. 
“I feel mostly for our customers be-cause it’s like an old sofa; you felt comfortable. Many people we knew on a first-name basis.”
In one aisle, store regular Brenda 
Bullard carried a music box — a gift for her daughter. 
“It’s sad to see it go,” Bullard 
said. “I may try and come back to stock up on cards.”Oaks store closing after 37 yearsReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Bush can’t escape 
embarrassment 
from staff member
The Republican with seemingly the best chance of sitting 
in the Oval Ofﬁ  ce used to occupy a parallel room in the Florida Governor’s Mansion.
Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, honorary UF alum-
nus and relative to two of the last four presidents of the U.S. is 
probably running for that ofﬁ  ce himself.
No one afﬁ  liated with Bush has conﬁ  rmed this yet, of course, 
but he announced last year in a Facebook post that he is going to 
“actively explore” a presidential run. In the same post, he said he’d be creating a political action committee. Then he resigned from several of his positions in corporate board rooms in the ear-liest moments of 2015. A fourth Bush presidential campaign is all but ofﬁ  cially underway.
And at the moment, he’s far and away the easiest Republican 
contender to take seriously. Unlike many other GOP presidential hopefuls, Bush — like Hillary Clinton — has ducked away from attention and embarrassment. That’s more than can be said for the many who spoke at last month’s Freedom Summit. Bush’s strategy is to stay out of the public eye, allowing other aspiring candidates to make fools of themselves 11 months before 2016. It seems to be working; he’s already leading in primary polls. Democrats are painting him as a kind of Romney 2.0, which is really less of an insult than they think it is.
With everything laid out, it looks like Bush is an easy bet for 
the 2016 Republican nomination, and the presidency itself, if he can manage it. Even so, he’s got clear failings that he’ll have to make up for if he’s to carry a national election.
Bush’s shortcomings became glaringly clear earlier this week 
when he hired Ethan Czahor. Czahor is a tech entrepreneur with multiple startup experiences, including a brief foray into social media with Hipster.com, which was a short-lived photo sharing site. He was hired as chief technology ofﬁ  cer for Bush’s Right To 
Rise PAC. So far, he’s doing some nifty things, like embedding a 
goading “Want to work on the greatest political tech stack ever created?” into the HTML of the PAC’s website, encouraging people to send in their resumes.
Clearly, Czahor is a resourceful and creative talent — any 
campaign would be lucky to have him.
Unfortunately, his Twitter account suggests otherwise. Yes-
terday, BuzzFeed cataloged tweets that had been deleted from Czahor’s account — in all, 45 tweets were deleted Monday. 
After reading through a selection of them, we can certainly see 
why; they’re a collection of nasty, rather immature jokes about  women and gay men, groups who historically haven’t had the greatest relationship with the Republican Party. A particularly foul one called female art majors sluts and female science majors “also sluts but uglier.”
Granted, the tweets in question are all pretty old, and a 
spokeswoman has already declared Bush found them inappro-priate and that they were deleted at his request. But still — the 
wildly sexist nature of Czahor’s tweets says many things about 
him, and no deletion will stop that from reﬂ  ecting on Bush.
49 TOTAL VOTES51% “Walking”
49% Grammys
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgMonday’s question: Did you 
watch “The Walking Dead” or the Grammys last night?Today’s question: Do you have ideas for SG party plat-
forms?
GOP: There’s no ‘beautiful’ end to rape
A Republican state lawmaker insulted women and 
sexual assault survivors nationwide Thursday 
when he spoke about rape exemptions in a bill 
that would ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. 
During West Virginia’s House Health Committee meet-
ing, delegate Brian Kurcaba argued that rape and incest 
victims shouldn’t be exempt from the ban because even 
pregnancy from rape has a silver lining.
“For somebody to take advantage of somebody else 
in such a horrible and terrifying and brutal way is abso-lutely disgusting,” Kurcaba said. “But what is beautiful 
is the child that could come as a production of this.”
This is not the ﬁ  rst time Republican lawmakers have 
embarrassed their party by voicing ignorant comments about rape, and I’m sure it will not be the last.
In the 2012 election cycle, Republican Party candi-
dates made a number of outrageous comments regarding 
pregnancies resulting from sexual assaults.
In October 2012, GOP Senate candidate Richard 
Mourdock argued against rape exemptions in abortion 
bills because women should consider the pregnancy a 
“gift from God.”
And who can forget the infamous remark from Mis-
souri Senate candidate Todd Akin, who said that “the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing 
down” if it’s a “legitimate rape”?
Unsurprisingly, when Mourdock and Akin lost their 
Senate seats that year, the National Republican Congres-
sional Committee rushed to offer a training program to prevent future candidates from making similar gaffes. 
This would be laughable if it weren’t so sad. It’s pathetic that some lawmakers need to be taught how to talk about 
rape in a way that isn’t profoundly ignorant or offensive.
Obviously, some GOP ofﬁ  cials are extremely unedu-
cated about sexual assault, even when the public express-es outrage over these opinions. When Kurcaba attempted 
to give an apology for his statement after being bombard-
ed with negative press, he insulted sexual assault survi-vors again by stating that life should be cherished “re-gardless of circumstances.” In 
doing so, he implied — like so 
many other arrogant elected of-ﬁ  cials before him — that women 
who become pregnant from 
rape should be grateful for their 
pregnancy.
It’s bad enough that certain 
elected ofﬁ  cials continue to pass bills restricting abortion rights, 
but it is deeply disturbing that 
they also believe sexual assault 
survivors should be forced to endure and be thankful for 
the resulting pregnancy. It would be an understatement 
to say that this belief is demeaning and harmful to wom-
en and sexual assault survivors alike.
Instead of trying to pass intrusive laws that tell wom-
en to look for a bright side of rape, GOP ofﬁ  cials should 
switch gears and focus on prioritizing the well-being of 
their constituents. If they are truly interested in doing the 
right thing for millions of women, they should educate 
themselves about the issue. 
In addition to talking to doctors and psychologists 
about the emotional trauma surrounding sexual assault, they should reach out to survivors in their communities 
and talk to them about their experiences. I doubt that it 
has ever occurred to them to speak to sexual assault sur-
vivors about the issue, but they should if they expect to 
have even a shred of credibility.
Hopefully, if GOP lawmakers take the time to con-
sider the real and painful impact their proposals would 
have on rape survivors, they would stop trying to pass 
laws that would only cause more damage to victims.
If they continue instead to carelessly introduce bills 
that try to deﬁ  ne rape as anything other than the tragedy it is, they have no place in voting on issues concerning 
women’s health.
Moriah Camenker is a UF public relations senior. Her 
column appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Moriah 
Camenker
opinions@alligator.org TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
The Need for Moderation
If there’s one thing this world has no shortage of, it’s 
opinions on the State of Israel. There are vocal proponents 
and vocal oppositions. The spectrum of opinions on Israel’s existence ranges from “shouldn’t exist at all” to “uncondi-tionally” and yet, as with most political things, the middle of the spectrum is largely ignored. Although it may be the least-recognized group of advocates, that’s not to say it doesn’t exist. This is why the need for J Street U on UF’s campus is so pressing. The Middle East is, and always has been, a hotspot for political and religious tension. Ignoring this tension in favor of one group or another is illogical 
and unproductive. J Street U aims to change this.
So what is J Street U? J Street U is the student-organized 
arm of J Street, a pro-Israel, pro-peace, nonproﬁ  t, moder-
ate advocacy group that works toward ending the Israeli-Palestinian and Israeli-Arab conﬂ  icts peacefully and dip-lomatically. Unlike other groups on campus, J Street U rejects the notion that being “pro-Israel” inherently makes a person incapable of being “pro-Palestinian,” but rather focuses on advocating for justice, human rights and de-mocracy for people on both sides of the border. J Street is redeﬁ  ning what it means to be pro-Israel in America. J Street, and J Street U by proxy, is redeﬁ  ning American political dynamics by mobilizing support for a two-state solution. J Street offers a unique perspective because it 
maintains that one can actively support and criticize Israel. 
In short: being pro-Israel doesn’t require supporting every 
policy of its government.
If you’re looking for an alternative to the more radical 
left- and right-wing groups on campus, you’ve come to the 
right place. The UF chapter of J Street U has a couple of 
events coming up that are the perfect opportunity for stu-
dents to get involved and make an impact on our campus 
and, hopefully, our world. 
This upcoming week, Jodie Rubenstein, the DC Metro 
and South campus organizer for J Street U, will be heading 
our way to talk about the conﬂ  ict and how to diplomati-
cally discuss it. J Street U is having an event Wednesday to give our chapter and potential members the opportu-nity to get to know Rubenstein, J Street and our values and 
position. On Wednesday, J Street U will be hosting an in-
formation session with Rubenstein about the conﬂ  ict and 
J Street. This event will be held at La Casita, the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures at UF, on University Avenue.
On Feb. 27, J Street U will be collaborating with UF Hil-lel to host Avi Schaefer Shabbat, which seeks to promote discourse about Israel within the Jewish community and the interfaith community. Avi Schaefer Shabbat promotes 
cross-cultural understanding and discussion, as well as 
provides a variety of viewpoints on the conﬂ  ict. The Avi 
Schaefer Shabbat will feature Ari Shavit as a speaker. 
Shavit is an Israeli journalist who writes primarily for Haaretz, and his work has appeared in The New Yorker. 
He is the author of the 2013 book “My Promised Land: The 
Triumph and Tragedy of Israel.” His book was not only a 
New York Times best-seller, but also won the Natan Book 
Award. “My Promised Land” was also named one of the best books of the year by the New York Times and The 
Economist.
If you have an opinion to voice on this conﬂ  ict, if you 
want to learn how to do so or if you simply want to learn 
more about Israel and the Middle East, J Street U is the per-fect organization for you. Please feel free to contact us at 
JStreetUF@gmail.com if you have any questions or simply 
want to learn more about the conﬂ  ict.
Lane Sheldon
vice president of UF chapter of J Street U
UF English and political science juniorLetters to the Editor
Each U.S. president since Dwight D. Eisenhower has attended the 
National Prayer Breakfast, an annual event started in 1953. Presi-dent Barack Obama is no different in this instance, and he gave 
a speech at the breakfast last week. This speech marked Obama’s sev-enth attendance at the breakfast, and while the speech was uplifting in its 
hopeful message, it also raised a few eyebrows and has resulted in a lot 
of backlash from conservative politicians and organizations.
Nothing new here. The reason conserva-
tive groups have been seen spluttering with indignation is simple. Obama simply publicly said what most people know but often seem to want to keep under wraps: Christianity has faults. Throughout history, believers in Chris-tianity have committed horrendous human 
rights violations in the name of their religion.
This speech, and its more blunt moments, 
come at an interesting time for the United 
States. Terrorist organizations such as the Islamic State have frightened and horriﬁ  ed many people. Although this terrorism should not be ac-cepted, many people have condemned the entirety of Islam because of the actions of a few.
This has generated misplaced self-righteousness and an often vicious 
prejudice against followers of Islam. Obama pointed out that Islam as a 
whole cannot be held responsible for actions of extremist organizations.
Take that, Rupert Murdoch. You’ve been owned by the president of 
our country. Murdoch’s shameful tweet holding all followers of Islam 
responsible for the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris was angrily responded to by many individuals — including J.K. Rowling. While Murdoch lat-er apologized, the implication of his tweet is one many people seem to share, and I think the president is right to address this issue.
In all seriousness, if individuals choose to condemn an entire religion 
based on the acts of these groups, then believers of Christianity should 
also condemn themselves.
Through the Crusades using the Bible as moral justiﬁ  cation for slav-
ery, and Christian extremist groups murdering and abusing people of 
color, members of the LGBT community and other groups with identities supposedly at odds with Christian ideals throughout history, Christian-ity has its own bloodshed to answer for if we want to start holding reli-gions responsible for anything. Which, honestly, sounds like a long and painful process for everybody involved.
The idea of blaming any entire religion for the horrible actions of its 
extremist followers or its past is a blinkered and weak perspective, one that fails to recognize all parts, people and messages of a religion, which is a set of teachings to help human beings be better at being human.
Conservative politicians and news outlets are in a tizzy about this 
speech, calling it everything from insulting to an anti-Christian rant, but perhaps they should consider picking up a history book and coming down from their morally ambiguous high ground.
Obama’s speech was a reminder of the importance of tolerance and 
humility. He reminded us of the fact that our country was founded on 
the ﬁ  rm belief of separation between church and state — slightly un-
dermined by the fact that every U.S. president has been Christian and Obama gave this speech at an event called the National Prayer Breakfast, but hey, I’ll take what I can get. Obama implored citizens of the U.S. to treat others the way they would want to be treated — a simple request but one we often forget. We should take the message to heart.
Sally Greider is a UF English and public relations sophomore. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.Obama’s speech calls 
for religious toleranceColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Waiting in the rain
Jessica Young, 21, and Caroline Keesler, 20, both UF telecommunication juniors, wait for buses outside 
the Hub on Monday. “I’m going to be waiting forever,” joked Keesler, who was waiting for the 122.
Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff 
Construction workers fill out the exterior of Burrito Brothers’ remodeled restaurant Monday. Part of Northwest 14th Street was closed due to the remodeling.
LOCAL
 THEY HAVE A GOFUNDME.
ERIC HEUBUSCH
Alligator Contributing Writer
After nearly 40 years of service, a local 
burrito joint is undergoing major recon-
struction with a little help from locals.
Burrito Brothers Taco Co. on West Uni-
versity Avenue has served patrons from its 
600-square-foot property since 1976. After 
breaking ground Oct. 1, the restaurant has plans to expand to almost 2,100 square feet.
To help with the costs, owner Randy Ak-
erson created a GoFundMe account. As of 
press time, the restaurant has raised $2,775 
to aid the funding, with a goal of $7,500.
“I am very grateful for the people that 
have kicked in a little,” said Akerson, who 
acknowledges that many contributions have 
come from friends and former employees. 
“It is very heartwarming.”
Founded in 1976, Burrito Bros. previ-
ously served patrons from a window and 
offered only limited outdoor seating. Now, 
the restaurant plans to add indoor dining and a bar.
UF sophomore Alexa Ramer is a regular 
customer at Burrito Bros. The 19-year-old 
has been going with her parents since she 
was about 13, and the renovations aren’t go-
ing to stop her from chowing down.
“It doesn’t matter to me if it’s from a 
building or a window because I’m going to enjoy going there either way,” the UF busi-
ness management major said. “I’ve loved it 
for a long time.”
Akerson said he’s appreciative of the 
support he has received from the fundraiser.
“It’s been kind to us, and it’s allowed us 
to make a living and stay in Gainesville,” he said, referring to his business.
Burrito Bros. will be closed for small 
stints over the course of construction, in-cluding today and Wednesday.Burrito Bros. expanding, requesting donations from community
 THE TWEETS WERE DIRECTED AT WOMEN AND GAY MEN. THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON (AP) — 
Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush 
on Monday decried messages 
posted to Twitter by a top tech-
nology aide as “inappropriate,” but a spokeswoman said the recent hire would remain with 
Bush’s nascent presidential 
campaign.
The distraction came on the 
same day Bush told supporters and former aides he is “singu-
larly focused” on weighing 
a presidential bid, and as he prepared to release thousands of emails from his time as Flor-
ida’s chief executive and the 
first chapter of a related e-book to highlight what he called a compassionate leadership style with deep conservative creden-
tials.
A Bush spokeswoman said 
he was disappointed to learn 
that Ethan Czahor — hired in 
January as chief technology of-
ficer of Bush’s Right to Rise po-litical action committee — had posted messages on his person-
al Twitter account that referred 
to women as “sluts” and made remarks about gay men.
Within an hour, Czahor posted a new tweet, his first in months: “i deleted some old jokes i made years ago that i no longer find funny or appropri-ate. #learning #maturing”
Bush spokeswoman Kristy 
Campbell said Czahor, 31, the founder of Hipster.com, will stay in the role.
“Gov. Bush thinks the com-
ments were inappropriate, and they have been deleted at our request,” she said. “Ethan is a 
great talent in the tech world, 
and we’re excited to have him on board.”
In one tweet posted in 2009, 
since deleted, Czahor wrote, “new study confirms old belief: college female art majors are sluts, science majors are also 
sluts but uglier.”
Czahor did not immediately 
respond to a message seeking 
comment about the tweets and 
his role in Bush’s political op-
eration. The tweets were first reported by BuzzFeed News.
Bush has yet to announce 
his political intentions, but he 
has been among the most ag-
gressive GOP presidential prospects in recent weeks. 
He continues to court top 
political donors across the country, while reviving and expanding a political machine that was largely dormant in the eight years since he left the Florida Governor’s Mansion.Tech aide’s offensive 
tweets cause issues for Bush prospectsCARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Mark Frantz is excited to see 
the empty space next to his store 
filled.
Two new tenants — one spe-
cializing in home goods and the other in children’s clothing — are moving into Butler Plaza while another is relocating.
“Any store that goes in there 
is going to help business in this complex — more foot traffic,” said Frantz, the manager at PetSmart in Butler Plaza.
Tuesday Morning will open at 
3728 SW Archer Road, in between PetSmart and Trader Joe’s, while Carter’s will take over the old Pac-Sun location between Target and Old Navy. 
Outback Steakhouse, now lo-
cated in the shopping center near Walmart, will be moving into a new freestanding building on the 
corner of Archer Road and South-
west 37th Boulevard, according to a press release.
Construction on the new 
Outback building will start this month, and the move will happen later this year.
Additional changes are ex-
pected as Butler Plaza progresses 
through an expansion project that 
will create two new shopping and dining centers, Butler Plaza North and Butler Town Center.
Carter’s, featuring children’s clothes, is expected to open on March 5, consumer affairs repre-sentative Nora Kelly wrote in an email.
“There was a big demand for a 
children’s clothing store in our re-
gion,” Deborah Butler, president 
of Butler Enterprises, wrote in an email. “They were the obvious choice to bring to Gainesville.”
Tuesday Morning will offer 
bath products and home mer-chandise. 
It should be open later this 
spring, Butler said. She did not 
have an exact opening date. It has 
another Gainesville location at 3842 W. Newberry Road.
Both stores are currently under 
construction. New stores coming to Butler Plaza“It doesn’t matter to me if 
it’s from a building or a window 
because I’m going to enjoy going 
there either way.”
Alexa Ramer
UF sophmoreTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Sydney Dixon / Alligator 
Let’s Dance
Naomi Ector, an 18-year-old UF freshman, and Christopher Duphren, 
a 21-year-old UF senior, dance with each other on Turlington Plaza on Monday afternoon. They are both members of the Gator Salsa Club.
CAMPUS
VERONICA GARCIA
Alligator Contributing Writer
As national obesity rates rise, UF fights 
back.
In Gallup-Healthways’ 2014 data regard-
ing the obesity rate in the United States, 27.7 
percent of adults were considered obese — a 
jump from the 25.5 percent back in 2008. For 
adults in the 18- to 29-year-old age range, there was a 0.3 percentage increase in obe-sity rates. But GatorWell, a free program for UF students, offers support and guidance so students can stay on a healthy track.
Natalie Rella, a health promotion spe-cialist at GatorWell, said wellness coaching is a great tool for UF students to tackle un-healthy habits. The program offers one-on-one consultations and gives tips on proper diets and exercise. Students can request to meet with a nutritionist and discuss im-provements to their diets.
Rella said wellness coaching is similar 
to a life coach in regards to academic suc-cess. The coaching involves eating healthy, tackling stress, physical activity and time-management skills.
It’s important to develop healthy behav-
iors and exercise choices early in life, she said. Metabolism slows down with age, but developing healthy habits early on will lessen the chances of becoming obese down 
the line.
“Eventually, college students become 
older professional adults. Healthy practices 
now will serve you as you’re older and beat that statistic,” Rella said. “Make a healthy choice. It’s very tempting to grab that pizza or hamburger, but it’s your choice.”
Daniela Lalinde, an 18-year-old UF nu-
tritional science freshman, said she tries to stick to the vegetarian options and the om-elet section of the dining halls in order to stay healthy. She started with the unlimited meal plan last semester, and this semester 
she switched to the 14 meals per week for 
more variety and healthier options.
“I think the idea of having unlimited 
pizza all day and unlimited ice cream all day definitely affects the choices we make,” Lalinde said. “Students don’t realize how all of that can accumulate in our bodies and just how bad it is for us.”
GatorWell takes up battle for waistlines as obesity rates rise
MARISA STELNICKI
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new director of UF’s Coun-
seling and Wellness Center has been selected after a thorough nationwide search.
Dr. Ernesto R. Escoto is cur-
rently the director of the coun-seling center at the University of Miami, where he works with staff to meet the mental health needs of students, said Mary 
Kay Carodine, UF Student Affairs assistant vice president. He oversees areas such as psychology, counseling, social work and psychiatry. He will start June 1 with a $170,000 salary.
The search was intensive, said Jen Day Shaw, UF 
dean of students and associate vice president.
“Whenever we do a search like this for such a 
vital role on campus, it is always difficult because there are many amazing people out there,” Day Shaw said.
Day Shaw said his current directorship at UM helped him stand out. Prior to that position, he worked as the clinical director at Ohio State Uni-versity.
His experience working at these two large cam-
puses made him suitable for the diversity and com-plexity at UF, Carodine said.
Escoto’s presentation to the board showed an 
understanding of a range of counseling and well-ness issues and showed he was able to dissect and address different student issues, Carodine said.
“He will provide counseling to all students re-
gardless of their situations and make sure that the counseling center will serve the whole student body,” she said.
Escoto’s current research focuses on domestic 
violence and supporting diverse populations. He is 
bilingual, fluent in both English and Spanish, and 
co-founded the Ohio Latino Mental Health Net-work.
“He has very broad and diverse skill sets, along 
with his national leadership in the field and visibil-ity to build a strong team and be supportive to staff and students,” Shaw said. “We are very excited about our new colleague.”Wellness center finds new director
CHRISTY PINA
Alligator Contributing Writer
The days leading up to Valen-
tine’s Day are full of love, but they’re also a time to review sexual safety.
STRIVE, a GatorWell organiza-
tion, aims to raise awareness about 
sexual violence throughout the 
week around campus with the sec-ond annual Cupid’s Consent Week.
“(Cupid’s Consent is) a positive 
sort of look at healthy relationships, a real celebration of healthy relation-ships, the idea of consent, listening to the limits and boundaries people put up,” said Rita Lawrence, Inter-
personal Violence Prevention coor-dinator.
Consent Week is meant to pro-
mote equality and respect for all 
genders, she said.
“(The mission is) to commu-
nicate a positive message about healthy communication and respect for sexual boundaries … and truly asking and listening for consent,“ Lawrence said.
Annie Carper, victim advocate 
in the Office of Victim Services, said she believes the issue of consensual versus nonconsensual sex is an im-portant conversation to have.
Consent Week started Friday at 
GatorNights with a celebrity kissing booth.  The organization’s first Dirty Talk 101 session will be held at 6:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Ustler Hall Atrium. It’s intended to help up to 80 students enhance their love lives, and Lawrence said she thinks it will be the most effective event.
“The workshop teaches you 
how to communicate your desires to your partner(s), whether it’s the first, the hundredth, or the only time you will engage in intimate activity with them,” she wrote in an email.
STRIVE and Peer Educators are 
ending Consent Week by tabling on the Plaza of the Americas on Thurs-
day at 11 a.m., Lawrence said. Mem-
bers are hoping to double last year’s attendance, about 100 students.
Second annual Cupid’s Consent Week
 IT’S PART OF A GLOBAL EVENT.
PATRICIA ROSARIO
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are taking control of the con-
versation on climate change.
The Intellectual Decisions on Environmen-
tal Awareness Solutions club at UF is hosting 
the school’s first Global Divestment Day rally 
from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Friday on the Plaza of the Americas.
Global Divestment Day is an international event taking place Friday and Saturday where participants suggest that large institutions, like universities and businesses, stop invest-ing in fossil fuel companies and instead spend their money supporting clean and renewable resources.
The host organization, 350.org, has been 
organizing days of action on climate change 
since 2008, which have grown into two-day 
events that have spread throughout six con-tinents for a total of about 300 events world-wide.
UF is one of the seven colleges and univer-
sities in Florida actively participating in the event.
Sarah Harper, a UF political science junior 
and a coordinator for the event, said I.D.E.A.S. organized the event in hopes of setting off a ripple effect in the community.
“We need to set the pace right now,” Harp-
er, 20, said. “We need to set the momentum to get into a greener future.”
The group is teaming up with Greeks Go-
ing Green to interact with students and mem-bers of the community, share concerns and brainstorm possible solutions.
Seaton Tarrant, a UF professor of environ-
mental ethics and politics, wrote in an email that the event is about recognizing connec-tions among the world’s economy, environ-ment and social systems.
“Investing in clean green technologies is a 
global imperative. Divesting from fossil fuels is a moral imperative,” he said. “UF’s students are willing to lead the charge on this.”
The rally will include student and guest 
speakers from local businesses and a Q&A.
All UF clubs and organizations are wel-
come to table at the event. Everyone is encour-aged to wear orange, the official color of the movement.
UF environmental club to rally against fossil fuels FridayEscoto
“Healthy practices now will serve 
you as you’re older and beat that 
statistic.”
Natalie Rella
health promotion specialistTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Volunteers of America is offering free, all-
inclusive housing for homeless veterans in a friendly, supportive atmosphere. Please call Woody at 352.642.8313 for immediate move-in!    2-16-15-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    2-25-15-20-2
TIRED OF ROOMMATES?
Move-in ready 1bed/1bath in Windsor Park.  $700/mo.  Contact Debra Oberlin, REALTOR 352-514-6715 EXIT Realty Producers    2-10-15-5-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10Is Algebra holding you back in Calculus? Available in print or Kindle on Amazon - a workbook to tackle the algebraic struggles most often encountered in Calculus I and II courses. 100 Equations - The Algebra that Almost Kills Calculushttp://www.elizabethstepp.com/books    2-11-15-3-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-20-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Advertising Office Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the 
country, is seeking to hire someone with the
following qualifications.
● Full Time position● Enthusiastic● Detail oriented● Excellent organizational skills● Office Administrative skills, clerical skills● Ability to multitask and meet deadlines● Excellent customer service skills● Manage national sales● Ability to train new employees● Experienced with Microsoft Office● Great communication skills, personable● Quick learner● Help manage team of constantlychanging student sales staff
● Nonprofit organization
● Modest Salary● Great working environment● Generous holiday and vacation benefits
Send cover letter and resume to
soconnor@alligator.org to be
considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
12, ALLIGATOR § TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Best Programming Job in Gainesville
Help build WWW 3.0 - the Semantic Web. 
Must be experienced ASP.NET MVCprogrammer. Change the scientific world. Apply to info@chemicalsemantics.com    2-13-15-7-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
Investor Seeks Web Designer
to partner to build start-up with unlimited po-
tential. jholifield1@gmail.com    2-12-15-3-14
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!
VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     1-30-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    1-30-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 2/16-2/19 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to teaching -
center.ufl.edu and “Study Skills” to register.     2-16-5-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Poll Question
Which UF basketball team has a better chance 
of reaching a postseason tournament: men’s or women’s? Vote online at alligatorSports.orgFormer UF catcher to throw first pitch
Mike Zunino will throw out the cermonial first pitch to open up No. 6 Florida baseball’s 2015 season against Rhode Island on Friday. Zunino was a first round pick in the 2012 MLB Draft. J.C Deacon and UF men’s golf are preparing for their lone home tournament of the season. Read the story on page 16. RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
The world of college sports facility building is a high 
stakes arms race, but by comparative standards the Uni-versity of Florida has been Switzerland for a good while.
While the other Southeastern Conference schools out-
fitted their complexes with space-age looks, waterfalls and indoor practice facilities, Florida did not. 
But after citing planning, lack of funds, lack of need and 
lack of space for dragging feet on specifically, UF became 
the final SEC school to build an indoor practice facility.
“The indoor practice facility is being started now as we 
speak. If you go out there you can see them do some work. 
We still have some meetings with our board, our UAA board, to figure out and finalize the financing of that. But 
we’re committed to that,” athletics director Jeremy Foley 
said. 
“That will be ready by next September. We will do 
some work this summer in the dorms. It’s not our dorms. 
It’s university dorms, we have to work with the univer-
sity.”
By the end of April, more than $100 million dollars in 
projects will have broken ground in a two block space on 
the north east portion of campus, Foley said. 
At breakneck speed, the Florida football program will 
get its crown recruiting jewel in an indoor practice facil-ity to be completed in September, and once the basketball season ends, the $50 million Stephen C. O’Connell Center will begin renovations. 
UF will also begin renovating its athlete’s academic ser-
vices building in the coming months as well. 
Many believe a fast track of the indoor practice facility 
has something to do with an insistence by new coach Jim McElwain on a revamp of the facilities.
Foley refutes that notion.“It’s not like Mac has been banging on tables,” Foley 
said. “Mac has been very good to work with, easy to work with and he’s conveyed his vision as he did during the interview process. You know I think when Mac made the comment about rebuilding infrastructure I think ev-
erybody automatically assumed that relates to facilities. Jeremy Foley clarifies details on athletics projects
Florida has more than $100 million invested
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF athletics director Jeremy Foley addresses reporters during a 
press conference on Monday.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
The wait is over.
Five days after verbally commit-
ting to UF, CeCe Jefferson faxed in 
his National Letter of Intent on Mon-
day morning, completing Florida’s 2015 signing class.
UF confirmed 
Monday it received the LOI, after which Jefferson posted on 
his Twitter account (@cecejeferson7)  
that he is happy to 
be part of the pro-gram.
Jefferson, a five-star defensive 
end from Glen St. Mary (Fla.) Baker County High, is one of two five-star recruits to come to Florida, with the other being offensive lineman Martez 
Ivey.
He announced his commitment to 
UF over Alabama, Auburn and Ole 
Miss Wednesday on National Sign-ing Day.
“I felt like that was home to me,” 
Jefferson said on an ESPNU telecast 
after he committed Wednesday. “I fit 
great in the defense they’re trying to bring.”
UF’s 2015 signing class finished 
with 21 commitments overall, includ-ing seven four- or five-star players.
Florida’s recruiting class finished 
23rd in the country according to Ri-vals.com.Jefferson 
officially a Florida Gator
BASKETBALL
 THE JUNIOR SUFFERED A 
SPRAINED ANKLE IN SATURDAY’S LOSS TO KENTUCKY.
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Florida could be without one of its top 
scorers for the near future.
Michael Frazier II is expected to miss 
Thursday’s game against Ole Miss with a high ankle sprain, coach Billy Donovan 
confirmed Monday.
The 6-foot-4 shooting guard injured his 
right ankle in the first half of Florida’s 68-61 home loss to No. 1 Kentucky on Satur-
day. 
He attempted to re-enter the game on 
two separate occasions but was not able to 
compete. 
He scored a team-high 10 points in the 
first half against the Wildcats, sinking 3-of-4 shots and making both of his free throws in the process.
Donovan is not sure 
when Frazier will return.
“It could be a couple 
weeks. It could be three 
days. It could be a week. 
I just don’t know right now,” Donovan said.
Frazier’s absence 
leaves a large void in a Gators offense that has failed to find any form of consistency this season.Florida is 11th in the Southeastern Con-
ference in scoring offense, averaging 65.8 points per game.
The majority of that point total has 
come from Frazier, as the junior is aver-aging a team-best 13.2 points each time he steps on the court.
He has scored in double figures in all 
but five of Florida’s 23 games this season.
“It’s not one guy that’s going to make Gators likely without Frazier against Ole Miss on Thursday
Frazier
Jefferson
SEE FOLEY, PAGE 15“We’re going to stay under $100 million in 
debt. We have to raise the money.”
Jeremy Foley
UF athletics director
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
Different year, same result. In 
2014, Florida opened its regular 
season with a game against North 
Carolina and was humbled by a 20-8 loss. On Saturday, 
the No. 4 Gators (0-1) 
hosted the No. 2 Tar 
Heels (2-0) in Florida’s regular season opener and fell 17-11.
The two seasons have that in common so far, but what Florida hopes hap-
pens again in 2015 as it 
did last year is that the 
Gators will learn from their mis-takes and enjoy a successful season. Florida lost only one other game last year during the regular season following the loss in Chapel Hill.
The Gators will need to make 
adjustments quickly as they trav-el to Jacksonville University on Wednesday night to face the Dol-phins. Coach Amanda O’Leary 
knows what Florida needs to fix 
from Saturday’s loss and she is con-fident that the team will work hard to make those changes.
“We need to get better from this 
game and I think we will. That’s the one thing about this team is they have a tremendous work ethic, they want to win games,” O’Leary 
said.
“I think there’s a lot of things 
that we’re gonna learn from this 
film that we can change and have 
immediate impact in our next 
game.”
Nora Barry and Sammi Burgess 
are two players who the Gators would like to make big impacts as 
the season progresses.
Barry, a senior, has started in all 
65 of her games as a Gator. She had 
30 goals and 10 assists last year, but 
on Saturday she recorded only one 
shot. Burgess, just a sophomore, had a breakout freshman year. She made 20 starts at attack and re-corded 38 goals and 15 assists, but 
against UNC she had just one assist 
and one shot.
O’Leary agreed that the team 
needs better outputs from Barry and Burgess in order to be success-ful, whether it be scoring and as-
sisting or movements without the 
ball in their sticks.
“We need a core group,” 
O’Leary said. “We have a lot of depth which is great for us but we 
need to get some points generating 
from that group.”
Once Florida 
begins to find 
its groove again 
and its offense 
starts clicking, as O’Leary ex-pects it will, the 
Gators should 
have no problem 
returning to their winning ways. Shannon Gilroy, Nicole Graziano 
and Mollie Stevens will all con-
tinue to produce offensively and the defense anchored by Angela Flister and Caroline Fitzgerald will be among the strongest in the Big 
East.
When comparing last season 
to this season, O’Leary said that 
the things that need fixing are not 
nearly as glaring.
“This year it’s the details…
there’s certainly things that we can 
identify and that we can work on specifically,” O’Leary said. “We’re 
gonna move forward and hope-
fully the girls will come out (at practice) ready to go, and I’m sure they will.”
GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
The first half of Sunday afternoon’s game 
against No. 6 Tennessee looked different from most games the Florida women’s bas-
ketball team has played this year.
UF played with intensity and overcame 
early adversity.
The Gators (11-12, 3-7 Southeastern Con-
ference) didn’t let the Volunteers run all 
over them, taking a 30-28 halftime lead into the break.
But with the team up 36-31, Florida went 
cold.
It was not the type of cold that comes 
from stifling defense or carelessness with the ball.
The Gators started taking contested 
jumpers and layups, with the team hesitant to make the extra pass to get a player open.
Ultimately, UF finished Sunday’s game 
making just 34.4 percent of its shots, mark-ing the eighth time in the last 15 games Flor-
ida made less than 35 percent of its attempts.
Coach Amanda Butler said that part of 
the team’s development comes from evalu-
ating what shots are there and executing the 
looks when they have them.
“It’s difficult because we do spend a lot 
of time on shot selection,” Butler said. “We 
spend a lot of time off the court watching film, just really understanding what’s a 
good shot and what’s a bad shot. And that 
varies from individual to individual. Some shots we took last night weren’t necessarily bad shots, but we just had that spurt where 
we didn’t score.”
That five-point cushion was quickly de-
flated by an 11-0 Tennessee (20-3, 10-0 SEC) 
run that destroyed any hope Florida had of 
playing spoiler to a ranked opponent.
And it wasn’t as if the Gators came out 
and started shooting three-pointers from 
halfcourt.
The scoring drought, that lasted almost 
five minutes, saw UF miss four layups be-fore Ronni Williams cut the deficit to four with a layup of her own.
To Florida’s credit, the team found ways 
to get the ball inside for high-percentage op-portunities to score.
But the Gators couldn’t convert their 
chances when it mattered most.
Butler attributed the failure to score close 
to the basket to the height differential the Volunteers had over Florida.
A height differential that was widened 
when the Gators learned the morning of 
the game that freshman forward Haley Lo-
renzen, the team’s second tallest player at 6-foot-3, would be unable to compete due to a concussion suffered in practice on Satur-day.
“In that segment in particular in the sec-
ond half when we had a little trouble doing what we wanted to do in the paint. …cer-tainly it was a time when we felt the most 
missing Haley,” Butler said. “But that’s part 
of the game as well, you know. Injuries and things are going to happen … and every-body else just has to use those opportunities to step up.”
Florida is optimistic that Lorenzen is able 
to return on Thursday, when the Gators travel to Georgia to take on the No. 24 Bull-dogs in Athens. 
If not, Butler hopes the rest of the team 
carries the fight it brought against Tennes-see to the next game, and for the rest of the season.
“I think despite the loss, we did generate 
a great deal of confidence by understanding what it felt like to fight for 40 minutes,” But-ler said. 
“You have to experience that to know 
what it feels like. And I really believe that 
(Sunday’s) effort was as close to a total effort 
in that regard that we’ve had all year long. And that’s what we have to build on and that’s what we have to take forward.”
14, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Amanda Butler calls out a play to her team during Florida’s 64-56 loss to No. 6 
Tennessee on Sunday in the O’Connell Center. The Gators have struggled with their shot selection late this season.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sophomore attacker Sammi Burgess chases after a ground ball during Florida’s 17-11 loss to UNC on Saturday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.WOMEN’S BASKETBALLGators working on shot selection with season winding down
Florida struggled during loss to No. 6 Tennessee
UF looking for quick turnaround after season-opening loss
UF Lacrosse
Barry
Facilities is part of it, but Mac is talking about 
the personnel department, talking about staff-ing, quality control people, his staff, the weight room.”
The school has raised $60 million according to 
Foley for the O’Connell Center renovation, above the initially announced target funding.  
But that isn’t the only improvement coming 
to UF soon. 
Foley says a new weight room is coming for 
the basketball facility. He also alluded to a re-vamp of the football locker room as well, after touring other schools in the conference.
With all the money flying around, debt will 
be incurred by the school. Just how much debt is what Foley hopes to keep to a minimum, but when buildings have to go up in order to keep up with the Joneses that may not be an option.
“We’re going to stay under $100 million in 
debt. We have to raise the money,” Foley said.
“We’re confident that we can. But we have not 
taken on a significant amount of debt because we have too many unknowns in our future as it re-lates to finances and running this program, law-suits, all those type of things. We have to figure that stuff out.”TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
GYMNASTICS
 ALEX MCMURTRY IS AVERAGING A TEAM-HIGH 9.88 SCORE PER ROUTINE THROUGH FOUR MEETS THIS SEASON.
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Transitioning into college is difficult for any 
18-year-old student-athlete.
For a gymnast, it can be even tougher. 
Most are used to competing in front of only a few 
hundred fans regularly, and they do so without the 
same team concept used in collegiate gymnastics.
“Any coach will tell you it takes quite a while 
for the freshmen to feel comfortable,” Florida coach Rhonda Faehn said. 
“You’ve gotta figure they’re coming in, it’s a 
brand new school, brand new coaches that they haven’t had their entire life, new teammates — it’s 
like new everything.”
And when you’re thrown in the mix for the two-
time defending national champions, it doesn’t get 
any easier.
But UF’s top-ranked freshman class hasn’t had 
any issues making the adjustment — in fact, the class’ impact has been nothing short of sensational.
“This freshman class is awesome,” Faehn said. 
“Our freshmen are phenomenal talents.”
Through five meets of the 2015 season, Florida’s 
four freshmen — Kennedy Baker, Alex McMurtry, Ericha Fassbender, and Grace McLaughlin — have been essential to the Gators’ success.
Before a concussion kept her out of last week’s 
meet at Arkansas, Baker had competed in the all-around competition in all but the first week.
She had only scored worse than a 9.80 once in 
her 15 total events. 
Her best event has been floor, where she has dis-
played raw power and immediate comfort — she came 0.025 away from a perfect 10 against Georgia.
McMurtry has been even more impressive in her 
first season.
She has competed in every event except floor 
and has scored at least one 9.90 or higher in each, which includes a perfect 10 against Auburn in just the second vault of her collegiate career. 
She is also the highest scorer on the team per 
routine, averaging a staggering 9.88 in the 13 events she has competed in this year.
Fassbender’s transition has been a bit more tra-
ditional, but she has grown steadily as the season has progressed. 
Last week at Arkansas, she made her all-around 
debut and won the title with a 39.375.
McLaughlin made her collegiate debut last week, 
replacing Baker in the beam lineup. 
She scored a 9.775, and Faehn said she was proud 
to see McLaughlin’s hard work begin to pay off.
As a whole, this class has a chance to be the most 
successful in Faehn’s 13 years as UF’s coach.
Faehn said this is the most impactful group of 
freshmen she has had since her 2004 class, her sec-ond at Florida. 
That group helped guide the Gators to their 
first Super Six under Faehn that year, as well as 
two more Super Six appearances and Faehn’s first 
Southeastern Conference Championship in 2007.
Those are lofty comparisons, but Faehn believes 
this group is special — not only from a talent stand-point, but also from a character standpoint.
“It kind of reminds me of that,” Faehn said of the 
2004 class comparison, “that this class has so much talent and they’re just awesome girls, they’re awe-some people.
“I love their attitudes. Each and every one of 
them come in and they just want to contribute. Their sole goal is to do whatever they can to help our team be successful.”Freshmen providing quality performances early in careers
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Alex McMurtry competes on the balance beam during Florida’s win 
against Georgia on Jan. 30 in the O’Connell Center.
FOLEY , from page 13School has raised 
$60 million for 
O’Dome projectUF looking to avenge earlier loss in Oxford
up for a player like Michael,” Donovan said. “We’ll 
need some other guys to contribute.”
Frazier was a key component in the Gators’ of-
fense the last time they played Ole Miss — a 72-71 loss in Oxford, Mississippi on Jan. 24.
The junior scored a game-high 27 points on 7-of-
11 shooting — including a 6-for-8 mark from down-
town.
Outside of redshirt junior Dorian Finney-Smith’s 
15-point outing, no other UF player scored more than 
eight points.
“Frazier is one of our best scorers so it’s going to 
be tough without him on the offensive end,” fresh-man Chris Chiozza said. 
“But we have a lot of offensive power that I think 
we just haven’t really connected yet one game this 
season. Without him, it’s really going to be up to us 
to really connect and I think we can do it. It’s just go-ing to be a little bit tougher.”
And without Frazier, Florida is going to need to 
find a way to make the connection stick, which could 
be tough against a surging Ole Miss team.
The Rebels have won its last five games by an av-
erage of 8.8 points.
But Chiozza said the team’s mentality has shifted 
as of late, a sign that the team is trying to turn the 
corner and end the season on a high note.
“At the beginning of the year, if anything went 
wrong … our whole team got down,” Chiozza said. “But now we’re really focused on the mindset of los-
ing the last play and moving on to the next one. And 
I think that helps everyone move on and not worry about the past.”HOOPS , from page 13
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Michael Frazier II attempts a three-point shot during Florida’s 
68-61 loss to Kentucky on Saturday in the O’Connell Center. 
RYAN SUMMERS
Alligator Writer@RyanSummers18
The Florida men’s golf team will host its only home 
tournament of the year this weekend after a second place 
finish in the first spring tournament at the Sea Best Invi-
tational in Jacksonville.
Florida’s second place finish at TPC 
Sawgrass’ Dye’s Valley Course was its 
third second place finish in the last four 
tournaments dating back to September.
Coach J.C. Deacon said he is excited to host the Sun-
Trust Gator Invitational and that it will be nice to have a 
tournament on familiar turf.
“We’re on a really good track right 
now, we’ve been playing good golf, and we beat some great teams last week up in Jacksonville,” Deacon said. “I think we need to just keep doing the same 
things and keep working hard and try not to put too much pressure on our-selves.”
The Gators will have seven golfers 
teeing off at the Mark Bostick Golf Course for the home 
tournament, with the lineup consisting of junior A.J. 
Crouch, sophomore Ryan Orr, freshman Alejandro Tosti and seniors Eric Banks and J.D. Tomlinson.
Redshirt sophomore Conor Richardson and freshman 
Ryan Celano will be competing as individuals.
This rotation will be the sixth different starting five 
for Deacon since starting his first season as coach in the fall.
“I think the most encouraging thing is how competi-
tive it is just to get in the lineup,” Deacon said. “Ryan Celano was one of our best players in the fall and he wasn’t able to crack the top five this week for our home tournament.”
Crouch is coming off of a second place individual fin-
ish after shooting 2-over-par at the Sea Best Invitational.
Deacon said Crouch has become more comfortable on 
and off the course which is helping his performance.
“He’s just playing great golf and pretty much every-
day that he comes out he’s more comfortable with who he is off the golf course,” Deacon said. “I think he’s add-ed a lot of positives in his life there and he’s just a hap-pier person overall and I think that really helps his golf.”
Crouch isn’t the only golfers that has stepped up his 
game for the Gators as of late.Banks logged his best finish of the year in the last 
tournament finishing tied for fifth place while Tosti and Orr finished tied for 17th.
“A lot of guys are finding their way,” Deacon said. 
“Guys are growing and getting better and pushing each other and we’re really developing a culture of a family. These guys are really starting to help each other and pull each other and it’s really fun to be around.”
16, ALLIGATOR  TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Eric Banks tees off during the 2014 SunTrust Gator 
Invitational. The Gators will have seven golfers tee off in the team’s lone home tournament of the season this weekend. 
Florida prepping for lone home tournament
 THE GATORS ARE STILL IN FIFTH PLACE AFTER TWO ROUNDS AT THE NORTHROP GRUMMAN REGIONAL CHALLENGE.
JUSTEN ROSENBERG
Alligator writer @RosenbergJusten
The Gators wrapped up Monday’s second round 
at the Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge in 
the same position they were in on Sunday – fifth 
place. 
However, instead of having sole possession, the 
Gators are in a tie with Oklahoma State, 19 strokes 
behind first-place Baylor.
One factor that challenged Florida on Monday 
was the conditions they played in. 
But despite the inclement weather, the team man-
aged to keep their heads on their shoulders, which pleased coach Emily Glaser.
“The golf course played very difficult today, but 
I thought we hung in there pretty well,” Glaser said in a release. 
“Overall they were pretty patient and that was 
the big test today with the wind blowing the way it was.”
Much like she did in the first round, freshman 
and Gainesville native Taylor Tomlinson was a ma-jor catalyst for the Gators.
Her two-over-par performance from Monday 
moves her score to +3 for the tournament, putting her in a tie for 15th place.
Meanwhile, junior Ursa Orehek, who is compet-
ing as an individual, improved on her seven-over par performance from Sunday, shooting two-over par in the second round. She is in a tie for 35th place.
The Gators will look to better their standings as 
the tournament wraps up today.UF women’s golf 
holding firm in California tourney
Deacon
UF Golf