By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
As Tim Walton stood at the lectern at the 
Women’s Club on Jan. 26 for the first time this 
year to address the media, he said the 2015 Flor-ida softball team had one goal, and it wasn’t to repeat as champions.
Rather, it was to strive to be one team.And as the season has progressed, the team 
has done exactly what Walton envisioned them doing.  
They came together and won the 2015 regu-
lar season Southeastern Conference title and clinched a berth back to the Women’s College World Series.
The Gators are going back to Oklahoma City 
for the seventh time in eight seasons, and back to ASA Hall of Fame Stadium, where Florida won its first national title in program history last season. 
Starting today, UF begins its quest to win its 
second straight title, hoping to become just the third school to ever accomplish the feat. The Gators entered this season as the No. 1 ranked team and with the proverbial target on their 
back.
But Walton and the team didn’t listen to 
the outside chatter heading into the season, be-
cause it didn’t matter in the preseason. 
“The most important ranking is the one at 
the end,” Walton said on Jan. 26. “It doesn’t matter exactly how we start or really how things go for us. It’s just a matter of how we can find out how to finish strong and put together 
another great run at the end.”
•   •   •
It’s June 3, 2014, and the Florida softball 
team just captured the national title riding the 
arm of senior pitcher Hannah Rogers.
Despite her strong play, Walton said he 
didn’t consider Rogers the ace of the staff dur-
ing Florida’s run to the title, even though she 
was seemingly unhittable when she trotted out to the circle.
She went 7-0 with seven complete games 
and a miniscule 0.64 ERA in the NCAA Tour-nament.
Rogers caught fire at the right time for the 
Gators heading into postseason play, and the 2015 Florida softball team has a pitcher who’s 
been on fire the entire season: Lauren Haeger.
Haeger, who was named the 2015 USA Soft-
ball National Collegiate Player of the Year on 
Tuesday, is 28-1 on the season, and has been especially tough on opponents so far in the postseason. The Peoria, Arizona, native is 4-0 and has an ERA of zero with four complete game shutouts so far in NCAA play.
“Just like Hannah last year, when a pitcher gets on fire, just stay out of her way,” Walton said. “And Lauren is on fire. She’s pitched very 
well with the exception of one bad pitch with 
two strikes against Tennessee, she’s pitched re-ally well this entire postseason.”
Haeger has carried the Gators this season, 
much in the same way Rogers carried Florida through its postseason run last year.
Walton said he can see comparisons be-
tween the two as they’ve pitched the Gators to Oklahoma City.
“The shutouts are what’s noticeable to me, 
just being able to be very hard to score runs on,” Walton said. “I think there’s a very strong similarity to the two. The key is that they both gained off-speed pitches later in their career. That’s such an overlooked pitch.”
But for Haeger and the rest of the team, their 
relationship with Rogers runs deeper than soft-ball pitches and statistics.
“I miss Hannah a lot,” Haeger said. “Every-
one does and she’s one of our good friends, so I talk to Hannah all the time.”
•   •   •
When Rogers left, a void was left behind. 
Haeger has taken the role as the leader and has relished it.
For one, Haeger is the lone upperclassman 
on the pitching staff, joined by sophomore 
Delanie Gourley and freshman Aleshia Ocasio.
While Gourley and Ocasio have struggled at 
different points during the season, Haeger has 
gotten stronger throughout the year.
Ocasio leaned on Haeger early in the season, 
seeking her advice and picking her brain.
“She’s helped me pitching here, and gotten 
me through my freshman year so far and just worked with me and helped me develop my 
pitches,” Ocasio said on Feb. 21. “She’s been a 
leader to me. She’s helped me get through chal-lenges and just helped me develop as a player.” 
Even though the two others look up to her 
as a role model on the softball field, Haeger doesn’t put herself on a higher pedestal than them.   
“I’ve looked at them as my little sisters in a 
way, but I would never put them under me,” 
Haeger said. “I just like to treat everyone the 
same, whether you’re a freshman or not.”
Rogers and Haeger helped one another, and 
a friendship off the field blossomed.  
“Hannah has been in that position before,” 
Haeger said. “We learned from each other. She 
never once treated me like I was her second 
pitcher. She was still like my friend and that’s what made it so awesome.”
•   •   •
When comparing the 2014 team to this 
year’s team, it’s easy to see why the Gators are back in the WCWS.Florida lost just two seniors from last year’s 
squad in Rogers and third baseman Stephanie Tofft, who hit .356 last season.
But this year’s team is different in more 
ways than one. 
It’s noticeably older, with six seniors on the 
roster. But the team has also been able to lean on its freshmen at times, who have responded by coming up huge under pressure.
And, perhaps most importantly, the Gators 
have acquired an invaluable trait as the season has progressed: Walton’s trust. 
“I really trust our team, out of everything 
that I’ve learned,” Walton said. “We can have a dialog and we can communicate with each 
other. There’s no egos involved and I just think 
it’s just a big strong trust.”
This year’s team has also seen the emer-
gence of some players that were unheralded before this year.
Taylore Fuller has been the go-to choice at 
third base, and although she hasn’t provided the batting average that Tofft had, the junior has provided more power as she’s cranked out 
13 home runs compared to Tofft’s eleven.
Bailey Castro has become a consistent threat 
at the plate. She came into the season a career 
.245 hitter with 20 home runs in three seasons.
But the outfielder and designated player has exploded in her senior year, hitting a team-lead-ing 17 home runs while posting a respectable 
.312 batting average.
Junior Kelsey Stewart has another year of 
experience under her belt, and has continued 
her assault on the UF record books. She’ll be entering the WCWS with a .448 batting aver-age.
And then there are the freshmen that have 
made an impact.
Ocasio has been the No. 2 option on the staff 
over the past couple of months and she’s com-piled a 17-3 record with a 1.99 ERA. She’s also taken the role Gourley had last year as the reli-able freshman in the circle.
In the batter’s box, Nicole DeWitt has 
bounced back after a slow start to the season.
The freshman seemed to lose steam in the 
middle of the season as she was hitting .262. But the Garden Grove, California, fought through the slump and then some as she’s now third on the team with a .351 average.
“For our freshmen, I’m proud of them. They 
get an opportunity to go to the World Series,” Walton said. “When we were getting National Championship rings they were all looking, they were like ‘it’s really not mine, even though I’m part of this program.’”   
•   •   •
With those high hopes, one would think that 
Walton and the team might be feeling the pres-sure to repeat as champions.
Walton disagrees.“(The) target’s off, we got new T-shirts com-
ing now,” Walton said. “We’re done with the target. The target was to get to this point.”
Whatever the team accomplished during the 
regular season is out the door. The 55-6 record doesn’t matter anymore, and neither does the SEC title.
“Last year we went in there and we were 
0-0,” Walton said. 
“It really doesn’t matter what you’ve done 
or accomplished or anything. It doesn’t matter who you’re facing. … Everything we do after this point, it’s gravy. This is what all of these kids have grown up wanting to do is get to the World Series.”  
The road to a repeat begins today, as the 
Gators will face one of the four other SEC teams in the WCWS: the Tennessee Volunteers.
Florida has lost four in a row to Tennes-
see, including its only matchup this year in the semifinals of the SEC tournament on May 8. 
UF will be hoping to snap that streak at noon 
on ESPN.  
Walton has seen his team grow since the be-
ginning of the season. He has one final message for them now that they’ve reached this point: Enjoy the moment.
“We’ve handled the pressure,” he said. 
“Now it’s time to go out and have fun and fig-ure out who we are and what we’re going to do moving forward in postseason.”Fuller has thrived in her 
first year covering the hot 
corner. She’s committed 
seven errors in 201 chances 
(.965 fielding) and has belted out 13 home runs 
and 55 RBIs batting in the 
heart of the lineup.Haeger has been a model 
of consistency both in the 
circle and at the plate. She 
put UF’s pitching staff on 
her back with a 28-1 record 
and her 1.24 ERA is on pace 
for the eighth-best single-
season mark in UF history.THE WOMEN’S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
EDITOR GRAHAM HALL  •   COVER ILLUSTRATION JORDAN MCPHERSON
ALLIGATOR, THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015
UF hoping to repeat as champsTHE ROAD 
LESS TRAVELEDPITCHER: LAUREN HAEGER (SR)
1ST BASE: KAYLI KVISTAD (FR)
2ND BASE: KELSEY STEWART (JR)
THE
PLAYERS
CATCHER: AUBREE MUNRO (JR)
Munro has been as reliable 
as possible behind the plate. 
While her .208 batting 
average isn’t spectacular, the 
Brea, California, native has 
yet to have an error in 352 
chances and often sacrifices 
her body to get an out. 
Kvistad has platooned at first base with fellow freshman 
Janell Wheaton and junior 
T aylor Schwarz, but after a 
couple clutch plays during the Gators’ Super Regional sweep over Kentucky, she 
should be starting Thursday. 
Stewart holds a team-high 
.448 batting average and already owns four UF career 
records (batting average, 
hits, triples, stolen bases). 
Oh, and she still has one 
more year of eligibility left.
SHORTSTOP: KATHLYN MEDINA (SR)
Medina is the Gators’ defensive anchor. She constantly makes the impossible seem almost routine, providing web gem performances on a routine basis. 
THIRD BASE: TAYLORE FULLER (JR)
DeWitt, a freshman All-SEC selection, has come on as of late. She ranks third on the team with a .351 batting average and has been a staple in the outfield since the halfway mark in the season.LEFT FIELD: NICOLE DEWITT (FR)
Merritt is effective both at the plate (.331 batting average, nine home runs) and in the outfield (one error in 64 chances). She isn’t afraid to jump into the center-field wall if it means getting an out, either.CENTER FIELD: KIRSTI MERRITT (JR)
After a slow start to the year, the speedy McLean has found her home in right field and the bottom of the lineup. The slapper is calm at the plate and has been effective at flipping the lineup over with her .377 batting clip. RIGHT FIELD: JUSTINE MCLEAN (SOPH)
Castro will play in the outfield whenever Haeger isn’t pitching, but it’s the senior’s bat — 17 home runs to lead UF and an astonishing .752 slugging mark — that has kept her in the lineup all season.DP: BAILEY CASTRO (SR)
Florida (55-6)Batting Average: .309ERA: 1.67RPI: 1NO. 1 SEED
Oregon (51-6)Batting Average: .364ERA: 2.33RPI: 4NO. 2 SEED
LSU (50-12)Batting Average: .339ERA: 1.76RPI: 2NO. 5 SEED
Alabama (47-13)Batting Average: .327ERA: 1.83RPI: 6NO. 6 SEEDMichigan (56-6)Batting Average: .343ERA: 1.59RPI: 5NO. 3 SEED
Auburn (53-9)Batting Average: .343ERA: 3.57RPI: 3NO. 4 SEED
UCLA (50-10)Batting Average: .370ERA: 2.63RPI: 8NO. 7 SEED
T ennessee (47-15)Batting Average: .306ERA: 2.94RPI: 9NO. 8 SEEDAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Senior pitcher Lauren Haeger (left) celebrates with junior first baseman T aylor Schwarz following UF’s 1-0 win against FAU to win the Gainesville Regional on May 17 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Florida softball players celebrate on the field of Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium following  their 1-0 win over Kentucky on Sunday to advance to their seventh Women’s College World Series in eight years.
We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 150 THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
With 4,000 clear ponchos in storage, 
UF has the Spring 2016 graduates cov-
ered in case of rain.
With construction delayed at the Ste-
phen C. O’Connell Center, the Spring 2016 commencements being held in the 
football stadium again looks like a pos-
sibility, said Lynda Reinhart, director of 
the O’Connell Center.
Construction was set to begin in 
March, but challenges to the process have delayed the timeline, Reinhart said.
“We’re hoping to have everything ﬁ  -
nalized by the end of next month,” she 
said. 
With layout drawings due mid-June 
and the ﬁ  nal budget due at the end of 
June, a ﬁ  nal review is set to occur July 
1 and 2.
Reconstruction of the 35-year-old 
building has already begun, Reinhart said, and it’s being gutted from the in-side, out. Mercury abatement — or the removal of mercury in the ﬂ  ooring — 
is the ﬁ  rst step and will take about six 
weeks.  
If the plans go through in July, con-
struction will be visible around Novem-ber, Reinhart said.
Summer and Fall 2015 graduations 
will be held in the O’Connell Center, al-though it is unclear whether the Spring 
2016 commencements will be held in the 
O’Connell Center or in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n 
Stadium.
Donna Stricker, director of presiden-
tial events and commencement, helped ensure that ponchos were readily avail-able for students and marshals during 
the Spring 2015 commencement.
The 4,000 ponchos, which is enough 
for two commencements, were kept in the stadium store as a precaution in case 
of bad weather, Stricker said.
“We all know you can’t ﬁ  ght Mother 
Nature,” she said.
Audience members were advised to 
come prepared for the weather and dress 
accordingly, as umbrellas aren’t allowed in the stadium. Ponchos were also avail-
able for purchase for $7.95 or $18.95, 
depending on the quality and style.
Ashleigh Whyte, a UF animal sci-
ences major, is set to graduate in Spring 
2016. The 21-year-old said graduating in 
the stadium wouldn’t be too bad, con-
sidering it is an iconic symbol of UF.
“If it was a really nice day out, I think 
I’d prefer (graduation) in the Swamp,” Whyte said. Although getting rained on 
wouldn’t be ideal, she added.
Serena Martin, 21, a health science 
major set to graduate in Spring 2016, said 
she’d prefer graduating in the O’Connell 
Center but wouldn’t mind the stadium.
She admits the stadium allows for 
better pictures, but the unpredictable 
Florida weather would be a problem.
Although in the end, Martin said, 
she’s going to graduation no matter what.
UF baseball hoping to win in NCAA 
Tournament
The Gators have not won a game in the 
tournament since 2012, pg 15.
UF professor named president-elect of 
biomechanics society 
His term ofﬁ  cially starts in August, pg 5
Netﬂ  ix Binge Drinking Game: Trailer Park Boys
See the latest installment in the Avenue, pg 10.New pizza restaurant opens on Waldo Rd.
It offers a drive-thru, pg 4
CAMPUS
IT REJECTED THE SUPERVISOR OF 
ELECTIONS RECOMMENDATION FOR 
THE SECOND STRAIGHT WEEK.
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
 
For the second-straight UF Student Senate meet-
ing, Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines recommended Sarah Winter to be the next supervisor of elections. And for the second-straight meeting, the 
recommendation failed. 
In what was essentially a party-line vote, the Sen-
ate voted against Winter’s approval Tuesday by a vote of 31 yes to 53 no. A two-thirds majority vote is need-
ed for approval. Her recommendation at the May 19 meeting also failed by a vote of 29 yes to 42 no. 
According to the 700 election codes, the supervisor 
of elections must have served as either an elections commissioner or an assistant supervisor of elections for at least one campus-wide election and must not have held a position or afﬁ  liation with any Student Government political party or independent candidate 
during the previous election cycle, which is one se-
mester. 
Winter served as an assistant supervisor of elec-
tions for the last three election cycles: Spring and Fall 2014 and Spring 2015.
Still, majority party leader Charlie Brown Jr. 
(Swamp, Agriculture) and other members of the Swamp Party said they feel Winter has a conﬂ  ict of interest because she campaigned for current Swamp Party member and Judiciary Chair Jason Richards in Fall 2013, her ﬁ  rst semester on campus. 
“She has recognized that the issues are there, that 
she understands why we have concerns,” Brown said during the opening round of pro-con debate. 
Winter said she campaigned during her ﬁ  rst se-
mester as a way to get involved early and has not had ties to a political party since that election cycle. 
“Once you do become an (assistant supervisor of 
elections), you are advised at that point and you know Divided UF 
Senate still not coming to terms
Nicole Gomez/ Alligator Staff
Bike Share
Ethan Hudgins, president of Students for the New Urbanism at UF, and Gainesville District IV Commissioner Randy Wells ride 
bicycles from the Orlando Bike Share in the City Hall courtyard Wednesday. City commissioners and members of the public rode about 15 of the bikes up and down Main Street at the event, a closing celebration for the end of Gainesville’s Bike Month.
SEE SG, PAGE 3Spring 2016 graduation location up in air
“Once you do become an (assistant supervisor 
of elections), you are advised at that point and 
you know your commitments to remaining 
unbiased as part of your duties that come with 
the position”
Sarah Winter
Supervisor of elections recommendationO’Dome construction in lux
“W e all know you can’t ight 
Mother Nature.”
Donna Stricker
Director of presidential 
events and commencementSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 150
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  66°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Eat Local Month Community 
Celebration
Join the Matheson History Museum and Hogtown HomeGrown for the eighth 
annual celebration of the Eat 
Local Challenge on Sunday from 1 to 4 p.m. This community celebration will feature food entrepre-neurs, gardening and health organizations. This free event includes activities for all ages, including a goat petting zoo, 
arts, crafts, culinary demon-strations and much more. 
Take a complimentary tour of the Matheson House. Door prizes will also be avail-able. 
For more information, call 
352-374-8561 or email hog-townhomegrown@gmail.com. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 4 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after above events, and keep them 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper.Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. NEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, lgomez@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Lindsey Saucier 
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Amanda Churchill, Serina Esquivel,
  Bailey Gaul, Miriam Gonzalez,    
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn,    
  T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel LoTHURSDAY MAY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3 
your commitments to remaining unbiased as part of 
your duties that come with the position,” said Win-ter, who was reached by phone call during Tuesday’s meeting because she is studying abroad.
During a pro portion of the pro-con debate, minor-
ity party leader Michael Christ (Access, Graduate) and Sen. Daniella Saetta (Access, Graduate) brought to light that there have been past senators with party af-filiations who went on to serve either as supervisor of elections or as an elections commissioner. 
One of those from recent history is Austin Sherman. 
Sherman — a former Senate majority party leader, Ju-
diciary Committee Chairman and Budget and Appro-
priations Committee vice chairman with the Swamp Party — was named an election commissioner for the Spring 2015 election cycle, according to Alligator ar-
chives. Sherman was eligible for the position because 
he was inactive for Fall 2014. His term as an elections 
commissioner ended Spring 2015.
“The bias doesn’t matter there, but it matters with 
the (supervisor of elections) who campaigned years 
ago? I am confused,” Saetta said.
Rules and Ethics Committee Chairwoman Maddie 
McClinton (Swamp, Education) echoed Brown’s senti-
ments and said she believes the supervisor of elections needs to be someone who has never had a party af-
filiation.
“(Winter) has a different mindset than someone 
who has not had any party affiliation with a political 
party,” McClinton said. “Those things do not run out of your memory.” 
Christ said because there are multiple opinions 
spanning across the two parties, the members inside the Senate chambers will need to compromise. 
“I know there are people in this body — the vast 
majority of people — are here on good will and want to serve the Student Body,” Christ said, “but I think it’s very easy at times to get blinded, especially after a competitive election, by partisanship in politics.”SG,  from pg 1Issue revolves around party affiliation
Nicole Gomez/Alligator Staff
Do Your Thing
Kelly Doughty waves a handful of American flags Wednesday morning in front of Keene Flint Hall on West University Avenue. “It’s your thing, baby, ” the 65-year-old Gainesville resident said while dancing with a gui-tar. “Do what you want to do. ”
 What else happened at 
Student Senate?
• Padron-Rasines and Diversity Affairs Secretary Kalyani Hawaldar addressed the Senate  chambers about their initiative to create gender-neutral bathrooms on campus. A committee of seven students is mapping out where all the single-use, family and unisex bathrooms are located and compiling research to present to the administration about why UF should have gender-neutral bathrooms.
• Student Senate Bill 2015-1031 Funding for Campus Crusade for Christ (Cru) Equipment passed through first reading by a vote of 49-32.
• Three more student senators — two permanent senators (Sean Dunnigan, District B; and Corbin Emerson, Graduate) and one Summer C replacement senator (Kayla Malone, Graduate) — were approved. There are still six open seats in the Student Senate: One permanent seat (Lakeside), one  Summer A replacement seat (Freshman) and four Summer C replacement seats (Agriculture, Graham and two Graduate).4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Charles Ward, 20, ﬂ  ags down potential customers outside A Perfect Pie at 1818 NE Waldo Road during 
its grand opening Tuesday morning. The pizza shop offers 15 ﬂ  avors of chicken-wing sauce and 24- and 32-slice T ailgator Party Pizzas.
LOCAL
By Katrina Alvarez
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new drive-thru restaurant is 
serving up Italian cuisine.
After 15 years of wanting to open 
his own Italian restaurant, owner 
Chuck Germond’s dream came true when he opened A Perfect Pie. 
It had its grand opening Tues-
day.
“The one thing that I found is 
that the pizza in Gainesville is not like the pizza back home in New York,” Germond said.
A Perfect Pie, located at 1818 
NE Waldo Road, offers a menu that includes a variety of appetizers, pizza, salads, chicken wings, burg-
ers, subs and pasta, among other 
things.
The restaurant offers drive-thru, 
pick-up and delivery options, and all ingredients used are fresh and 
locally sourced, Germond said.
Not having sit-down dining 
space allows Germond to offer low 
prices and fast service.
“I’m here to give back to the 
community. I don’t want to take their money,” Germond said. “I just want to offer them something that they don’t have.”
J.M. Dyas, the restaurant’s pub-
lic relations specialist, said he was both nervous and excited for open-
ing day.
“Everybody seems incredibly 
happy, and every single person 
that has come up has just seemed ecstatic that we’re actually open on 
this side of town,” Dyas said.
A Perfect Pie is open Monday 
through Wednesday from 10 a.m. 
to 1 a.m. and Thursday through 
Sunday from 10 a.m. to 3 a.mNew pizza restaurant oﬀ  ers late-night delivery, drive thru
MENU ITEMS AND SPECIALS:
 The T ailgator: a sheet-sized pizza that ranges 
from $15.99 to $25.99 depending on the toppings
 Two cheese or garlic slices and a 20 ounce fountain drink for $4.25
 Large, one-topping pizza, 12 chicken wings and a two-liter soda for $20.95THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
LOCAL
By Caylee Underwood
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hogtown HomeGrown will host its eighth 
annual Eat Local Challenge Community Cel-
ebration on Sunday at the Matheson History Museum to celebrate the end of Eat Local Month. Festival events will be from 1 to 4 p.m. 
and are free to the public.
This year is the ﬁ  rst time the event will be 
held at Matheson History Museum, located at 513 E. University Ave.
Stefanie Samara Hamblen, creator of the 
Eat Local Challenge, said while the group does 
not keep track of the number of people who at-tend each year, the museum expects about 250 people to show up on Sunday. 
“We encourage everyone to eat something 
local at every meal for the entire month,” Ham-blen said, “and to either eat that food at home or at a locally owned restaurant.”
Hogtown HomeGrown brings together local food entrepreneurs, gardening and health orga-nizations that include activities for adults and children for the community celebration.
Stephanie Pastore, the marketing and edu-cation coordinator of the Matheson History Museum, said she is looking forward to tak-ing part in the celebration as well as welcom-ing consumers to take a peek at the museum’s Florida’s Global Kitchen exhibit.
“So much of Gainesville’s art and culture is 
reﬂ  ected in our food,” Pastore said.
The festival will also include a goat petting 
area for kids, a pepper-and-tomato tasting, at least one cooking demonstration and multiple local farmer stands selling their produce.
HE IS THE PREZ-ELECT OF 
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY 
OF BIOMECHANICS.
By Kyle Bennett
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is now home to the presi-
dent-elect of the American Society of Biomechanics.
Chris Hass, a UF associate pro-
fessor in the Department of Applied 
Physiology and Kinesiology, was 
recently elected by members of the society.
The primary function of presi-
dent-elect will be to identify future locations of local and national con-ferences, Hass said. He said the so-ciety does a good job of reaching out and is a leader in the develop-ment of future scientists.
Winning a 
presidential elec-
tion in the soci-ety is a three-year commitment and completely vol-untary.
“Running for 
president repre-
sents a love for 
the society,” said Richard Hughes, 
a past-president of the American Society of Biomechanics.  
Hass has been a member of the 
society since 1998 and will ofﬁ  cial-ly be named president-elect in Au-gust. He will serve as president the following year and past-president the year after that.
“I’m very happy the society 
elected Chris,” Hughes said. “He’ll do a wonderful job.”
Biomechanics is a word that is 
broadly used to describe a science that studies movement in living things ranging from cells inside of bugs to how the brain commu-nicates with limbs inside humans, 
Hass said. 
Hass said his research focuses 
on Parkinson’s disease is studying 
how areas of the brain communi-cate to each other while patients are walking. UF professor earns new position
An amethyst cathedral geode 
valued at more than $1,000 was 
stolen from the lobby of Santa Fe 
College’s natural sciences building at some point between May 18 and 
May 20. 
The purple geode is part of 
a matching pair. The two pieces 
are almost identical in size and 
structure and appear to mirror one 
another. 
It weighs more than 125 pounds 
and is just over 3 ½ feet tall.
Anyone with information 
on its whereabouts is urged to 
call the Santa Fe College Police 
Department at 352-395-5519 or Crime Stoppers of Alachua County 
at 352-372-STOP for a potential 
reward.
Information obtained from SFC’s Facebook.Matheson Museum event encourages locals to eat local
Geode stolen from Santa Fe“W e encourage everyone to eat 
something local at every meal for the 
entire month...”
Stefanie Samara Hamblen
creator of the Eat Local Challenge
Hass
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Youth need to care about American politics
Come Monday, Americans may wake up to 
ﬁ  nd themselves in a drastically different country than the one they knew before they went to bed. As of June 1, Section 215 of the Patriot Act, the portion that has 
been used by the National Security Agency to jus-tify the mass collection of cell phone data, is set to expire. Section 215 has captured the fascination of Americans in recent years, particularly following the public revelations made by former NSA con-tractor Edward Snowden beginning in May 2013.
In recent weeks, activists and organizations dedicated to 
government transparency, such as Snowden and the Elec-tronic Frontier Foundation, have taken to the Internet to drum 
up support and activism in order to ensure that Congress, 
with whom the power to let government provisions lapse lies, is aware of how unpopular Section 215 is. Just last Friday, Snowden, ﬂ  anked by Jameel Jaffer, the deputy legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union, hosted an “Ask Me Anything” session on Reddit. 
In the session, they provided links to sign petitions decry-
ing Section 215, as well as an automated number that gives callers, after inputting their zip code, direct access to their 
local representative followed by their state senators.
Having read “1984,” as well as valuing my capacity to 
send vulgar dispatches to my friends without fear of possible 
government reprisal, I made it a point to call the number (1-920-END-4-215), and I was able to speak to representatives from the ofﬁ  ces of Rep. Ted Yoho and Florida Sen. Bill Nel-son and Sen. Marco Rubio. Doing so felt empowering and, in a large departure from how it usually feels to participate in American civil society in these turbulent times, democratic. 
Even when speaking to a representative from Rubio’s ofﬁ  ce, 
whom I knew full well would parrot Rubio’s staunch sup-port of NSA surveillance, it felt nice to actually engage in a dialogue rather than merely reposting an article that boiled my blood on *take your pick of social media platform here.*
Later in the day, I went to a friend’s house in a slightly 
more enthused mood than usual, having done my duty as an American to take part in the political process that has been allotted to me. I encouraged both of the people there, know-ing where their political philosophies lie, to make their voice heard and call the number. My sud-den patriotism was met with a resounding “meh.” “I’m moving out of the country soon, I don’t really ‘have’ a zip code anymore,” one friend said. The 
other just cracked wise about the government see-
ing his inappropriate snap chats and continued to play “Clash of Clans.”
Their reactions are emblematic of a larger prob-
lem in American society, namely, the detachment experienced by young Americans in their relation-
ship with the government. I have no illusions about why many young Americans don’t feel passionate about American politics; even as a political science major, I have experienced 
malaise regarding them. American politics have always been a 
weary proposition, but with the sheer number of lousy things the 21st century has thrown at us (9/11, two drawn-out wars abroad, economic inequality and the enactment of Orwellian policies among them), along with the 24/7 coverage provided by the likes of CNN, it has become easier than ever for Ameri-cans to justify separating themselves entirely from the larger goings-on of today. That being said, disengagement is almost certainly not the answer. I’m not deigning to be some paragon 
of activism and political involvement; as anyone who actu-
ally reads my column on a frequent basis can attest, politics is a subject I scarcely touch on in these pages. But when the future leaders of the U.S. — people with otherwise strongly held political views — fail to do the bare minimum to enact change, then we have a real problem on our hands.
Disregarding whether anyone reading this column sud-
denly feels the swell of the National Anthem in his or her belly and decides to call 1-920-END-4-215 to contact those 
who speak for them in D.C. before June 1 (although it would 
be really neat if you did), it is my sincere hope that you, Al-ligator readers, regardless of age or political afﬁ  liation, second guess yourselves and your involvement in matters that di-rectly impact your lives. As Theodor Seuss Geisel once wrote, “Unless someone like you cares a whole awful lot, nothing is going to get better. It’s not.”
Zach Schlein is a UF political science junior. His column 
appears on Thursdays.     Another week has come and gone here in Gainesville and 
we feel like we’ve been through a lot. 
The awful weather, prepping for midterms and the Me-
morial Day celebration has us feeling wiped out. 
But all that aside, it’s time for the here’s-to-the-good-
times edition of...
Darts and Laurels 
Let’s start with what’s been buzzing in the news lately. 
Several FIFA ofﬁ  cials and other afﬁ  liates were recently in-
dicted on charges of racketeering, wire fraud, money laun-
dering and general corruption. 
For those of you who only watch American football, FIFA 
is the international governing body of soccer — or football 
everywhere else in the world that’s not the U.S.
In any event, apparently millions of dollars were ex-
changed as part of a decades-old scheme, involving selection fraud, election fraud and objectionable money laundering. 
Soccer ofﬁ  cials apparently accepted more than $150 mil-
lion in bribes in exchange for media deals from sports-mar-
keting executives throughout the U.S. and South America. 
Some of which was literally exchanged through money-
laden briefcases in upscale hotels like something out of a 
mob ﬁ  lm. 
These schemes apparently inﬂ  uenced the selection of 
World Cup locations, with the South African bid committee arranging a $10 million bribe in exchange for becoming the location for the 2010 World Cup.
Thus, on the part of stopping yearlong corruption and 
hopefully putting an end to all this unpleasant business, we place a laurel upon the heads of Switzerland law enforce-
ment and FBI agents for their part in this sting.
Meanwhile, in lowerbrow news, a 19-year-old man is fac-
ing charges of grand theft after he was witnessed stufﬁ  ng an assault riﬂ  e down his pants in a Davie pawn shop. 
Marlon Paul Alvarez reportedly went to the local Public 
Pawn and Gun and stuffed an AK-47 down his pants, but being a discerning customer of ﬁ  rearms, he proceeded to put 
it back on the shelf and stuff another assault riﬂ  e down his 
pants before limping out of the shop.
All within the shop owner’s sight.Sufﬁ  ce it to say he was caught and arrested. 
For sheer stupidity, Alvarez shall be awarded a dart. 
Because if that’s not the stupidest attempt at grand theft 
we’ve ever heard, we’re not sure what is. 
On a more local note, the Florida athletics department re-
ceived extreme praise this week, and not for its athletic suc-
cess (even though the softball team is vying for a national 
title in Oklahoma City this weekend).
The NCAA announced Wednesday that all 21 of UF’s 
varsity athletic teams posted top academic progress rating 
scores, which account for eligibility, retention and gradua-
tion to provide a measure of each team’s academic perfor-mance with 14 teams equalling or improving their total from last season.
Each team earned a score no lower than 960 out of 1,000, 
far exceeding the minimum 930 mark required by the NCAA. Most only see collegiate student-athletes for their worth on the ﬁ  eld. But at the end of the day, they are still students, and success in the classroom is meant to be a priority.
For that, we award the UF University Athletic Associa-
tion with a keeping-the-student-in-student-athlete LAU-
REL.   
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Award-winning producer works with UF
John Arthur Pinckard is working with School of Theatre and Dance on upcoming musical, pg. 10What’s inside: 
-Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Trailer Park Boys, ” pg. 8
-Review on Zedd’s latest release, “True Colors, ” pg. 9By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer 
Country-duo Sundy Best is 
coming to Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst 
time and drummer Kris Bentley is 
sure they’ll ﬁ  t right in.
“Northern Florida, you know, 
I think there’s a lot of hillbillies 
there just as there are where we 
live,” Bentley joked. “We ﬁ  t in 
great.”
The Kentucky-based band will 
perform Sunday at the High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave., 
as part of its Salvation City Tour, 
the band’s biggest tour yet.
Doors open at 6 p.m. and tick-
ets can be purchased at the door 
for $10 or in advance for $8 on 
ticketweb.com. 
Local musicians Alan Stow-
ell and CP Heaton will open the show along with the Trey Tucker 
Band.
Sundy Best, consisting of Nick 
Jamerson on guitar and vocals and Bentley on cajon and drum 
kit, recently added an electric guitar and keyboard player to its live show. The band has toured 
more than 300 dates in the past 
18 months, selling out numerous shows this year.
“Each town and each show 
seems like it’s a brand new expe-
rience,” Bentley said.
The live set consists of mu-
sic from the band’s December 
release, “Salvation City,” along 
with songs from its March 2014 
release, “Bring Up The Sun.”
Bentley described the band’s 
style as combining elements of bluegrass and Appalachian Folk, infused with some hints of R&B.
“We’re like Baskin Robbins; 
there’s 32 ﬂ  avors,” Bentley said.
Growing up in a small town in 
Kentucky, Jamerson and Bentley were involved in music at their church from an early age.
“We actually had a Christian 
rock band together in high school for a little bit,” Bentley said.
After high school, the long-
time friends went off to college, 
where Bentley played basketball 
while Jamerson played football. 
It wasn’t until after college that 
Jamerson started playing guitar and singing around Kentucky. 
The two reunited to play after Ja-
merson messaged Bentley about adding some drums.
“We realized how much fun 
it was,” Bentley said. “It just felt right.”
After tossing around different 
ideas, the two ﬁ  nally settled on their band name due to church being a vital part of their upbring-ing.
“Music was a big part in our 
church and you wear your Sun-day best,” Bentley said. “And where we’re from, we say ‘Sun-dy.’”
The band, which signed with 
its label in 2013, has already been featured on several prominent 
publications and holds a spot in 
Rolling Stone’s Best Country Al-bums of 2014. The band also held the title of CMT Listen Up! Artist 
of the month in November, and 
two of its singles are currently playing on Sirius XM’s country station The Highway.
The public has also paid close 
attention to the band’s YouTube channel, which has garnered more than 2 million views and has doubled since March 2014.“It’s just really nice to get to 
do what you’ve always dreamed to do and just to make it a real-ity,” Bentley said. “That doesn’t always happen to everybody so 
we understand how fortunate 
and blessed we are.”
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured above is Sundy Best’s “Salvation City” album cover. The country duo will be per-
forming  Sunday at the High Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave.
THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Sundy Best to perform 
for ﬁ  rst time in GNV 
By Kemi Thomas
Avenue Writer
Pofahl Studios will be presenting “Peter 
Pan” on Sunday and fans can expect any-
thing from ﬂ  ying dancers to dancing dads.
The studio’s 59th annual recital will be-
gin at 6 p.m. at the Curtis M. Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts. The show is open 
to the public, and tickets can be purchased for $15.
Attendees will hear classic tunes from 
the 2003 version of the play as well as from the 1954 “Peter Pan” musical.More than 200 dancers between the ages 
of 3 and 18 will be performing an array of dance styles, from classical ballet to hip-hop. However, co-founder Kim Tuttle thinks the Dancing Dads will steal the show.
“It’s a volunteer thing,” Tuttle said. “This 
is an opportunity for the dads to dance with their children, and they’ve had a couple re-hearsals, and now there’s over 50 dads!”
At the end of the performance, the schol-
arship students for the upcoming season will be announced. The awards will be giv-en to students who have shown outstand-ing achievement and work ethic. More than $50,000 will be awarded to the recipients.
Among the performers are 12 graduating 
seniors, who have rehearsed seriously for their ﬁ  nal recital with the company. Some 
have been with Pofahl Studios since the age 
of 3.
The graduating seniors presented the 
idea of “Peter Pan” to Tuttle and her sister, Judy Skinner, co-owner of Pofahl Studios.“They came to us and they said, ‘We 
want to do “Peter Pan” and this is the way we want to cast it,’” Tuttle said.
According to Tuttle, the graduating se-
niors made sure each person got something special and was satisﬁ  ed with their role. The lead role of Peter Pan went to Clair Norton, who has been with Pofahl from a young age.
Rachel Ridley, who has also been with 
Pofahl since the start, will be playing Tinker Bell. Ridley offered advice to the perform-ers, who have put a year’s worth of work 
into this recital:
“Hold on to your dreams, reach for the 
stars, never give up,” she said. “Don’t be 
afraid to be who you are.”Pofahl Studios to present ‘Peter Pan’ at 59th annual show“Northern Florida, you 
know, I think there’s a lot of 
hillbillies there just as there 
are where we live. W e it in 
great.”
Kris Bentley
drummer
The recital is Sunday at 6 p.m.
“This is an opportunity for the dads to 
dance with their children, and they’ve 
had a couple rehearsals, and now 
there’s over 50 dads!”
Kim Tuttle
Pofahl Studios co-founderTHURSDAY MAY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
By Martin Vassolo
Avenue Writer
Take a sip whenever…
 Ricky mispronounces a word
 Ricky asks for “smokes”
 J-Roc says “Knowʼm Sayin?”
 A kitty appears on screenTake a shot every time…
 Mr. Lahey denies his love for 
Randy
 Bottle kids throw bottles
 Ricky curses at Mr. Lahey
 Bubbles outsmarts everyone
Finish your drink and pour 
another when…
 Someone goes to jail
 Corey or Trevor gets blamed 
for something
Take a sip whenever…
Ricky mispronounces a word
Ricky asks for “smokes”
J-Roc says “Knowʼm Sayin?”
A kitty appears on screen
 
Randy
 
Bottle kids throw bottles
 
Ricky curses at Mr. Lahey
 
Bubbles outsmarts everyone
Finish your drink and pour 
another when…
 
Someone goes to jail
 
Corey or Trevor gets blamed 
for something
Every week, the Avenue will bring you a new drinking game to play while binging 
on your Netﬂ  ix favorites. Check back next week for the newest game.The Netﬂ  ix original series “Trailer 
Park Boys” is scheduled to start ﬁ  lm-
ing its 10th season this summer, which can mean only one thing: It’s time to get belligerent while you 
watch seasons one through nine 
from the comfort of your own home.
The mockumentary follows the 
well-intentioned but ill-conceived antics of Ricky, Julian and Bubbles, three best friends living somewhere below the poverty line in Nova Sco-tia.
From the ﬁ  rst episode, the audi-
ence is quickly submerged in the tight-knit underworld of vagrancy, 
alcoholism and mob rule known 
simply as Sunnyvale Trailer Park, where laws serve more as sugges-tions than anything else.
The only consistent law enforce-
ment comes from Jim Lahey, a per-petually drunk, retired police ofﬁ  cer, and his always shirtless, cheeseburg-er-loving assistant, Randy.
Together, Lahey and Randy team 
up to get in the way of the boys’ mis-
deeds, but the real police are rarely 
ever needed. After all, it’s just an-other day in Sunnyvale.
So grab a six-pack and meet me at 
the trailer park. Warning: You might end up passed out on the lawn. TRAILER PARK BOYSTRAILER PARK BOYS ZEDD’S NEW ALBUM LACKS INDIVIDUALITY ff the Record
By Amelia Newman
Avenue Writer 
Russian-German disc jockey Anton 
Zaslavski, known as Zedd, recently released 
his junior album, a choppy composition in 
comparison to his previous works.
Although fairly formulaic and catchy, 
“True Colors,” released May 15, lacks co-
hesiveness, unlike his sophomore album, “Clarity,” which doesn’t drag you 
along for the ride but rather coaxes 
you.
“True Colors” starts off on a de-
cent note with spine-chilling, inter-
stellar “Addicted To A Memory.” 
Its lush riffs, mechanical bass lines and eerie vocals create a dynamic listening experience as it leads into “I Want You To Know,” featuring Selena Gomez.
After two songs, “True Colors” trans-
forms into an artistic mess. The majority of the record contains the same boring chord progressions, average vocal collaborations and shallow ﬁ  llers that suffocate even some of his ear-
lier works.
After “Addicted To A Memory,” 
the album has a rather pop-ish feel 
to it. “True Colors” sounds like Zedd’s fatal attempt to cater to the 
mainstream, losing his sound as well as his individuality.
“Bumble Bee,” Zedd’s collaboration with Botnek, featured a digitized buildup and an industrial denouement. The song, however, proved to be a poor attempt at dubstep. It didn’t compare to previous songs like “Co-
dec,” “Stache” and “Epos.” In “True Col-
ors,” Zedd’s once great instrumentals are nowhere to be found.
All in all, besides one great song and 
one listenable song, “True Colors” lacked 
Zedd’s sonic signature. It all boils down to 
one question: Did “True Colors” live up to its expectations? Unfortunately, it did not.
“True Colors”
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Tony Award-winning producer 
and UF alumnus John Arthur Pinck-
ard has brought in an accomplished 
team to work with the UF’s School 
of Theatre and Dance.
Beginning May 18, the School of 
Theatre and Dance has been work-
ing with the producer and an entire 
production team on “Volleygirls,” an upcoming musical produced by Pinckard and a team of award-winning artists. The intensive four-
week rehearsal period will lead up 
to four workshop performances pre-miering June 11. 
According to Jerry Dickey, direc-
tor and professor at the School of Theatre and Dance, the goal of the workshop production is to present a new work that is in an advance 
stage of development.“This is the ﬁ  rst time something 
like this has come to the school,” 
said Lauren Killer, a School of The-
atre and Dance intern and produc-tion assistant.
Students of the college are re-
ceiving ﬁ  rsthand insight into the in-
dustry with a creative team hosting 
names such as Sam Forman, a writ-er for the Netﬂ  ix hit series “House of Cards”; Eli Bolin, who wrote mu-
sic for the children’s show “Sesame 
Street”; and Ryan Kasprzak, a cho-reographer featured on the popular television series “So You Think You Can Dance.”
“It is offering the students and 
the (School of Theater and Dance) community the chance to interact directly with industry profession-als,” Killer said.
Rob Ackerman, a playwright and 
member of the creative team, de-cided that “Volleygirls,” originally a play, should be a musical. That decision ultimately led to its suc-
cess, and it has since won several 
awards.
Now, UF’s School of Theatre and 
Dance takes on the task of recreat-ing the musical with Pinckard, al-
lowing the school’s summer season 
to turn into a time for development.
“This program is designed to 
allow the producers and creative 
team to see their work up and on 
stage, so that they can ﬁ  ne tune, edit, and see what else the show needs,” Killer said about the series. “It is also really exciting for some 
of the students involved at UF, be-
cause their work is helping to inﬂ  u-ence the development of the show.”Tony winner working with UF
He is a UF alumnus
“This program is designed 
to allow the producers and 
creative team to see their work 
up and on stage, so that they 
can ine tune, edit, and see 
what else the show needs.” 
Lauren Killer
School of Theatre and Dance 
intern and production assistant
THIS WEEKEND IN GAINESVILLE
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   FRIDAY, MAY 29
Kings of Awesome, 
Hollow Days and Sixkiller
High Dive — 9 p.m. 
Advance $6 / Door $8Honky T onk Angels
Hippodrome State 
Theatre — 8 p.m. 
Tickets $35 / Students $15
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SATURDAY, MAY 30
Electro Aerial Show
Market Street Pub 
and Cabaret — 8 p.m. 
Free Event‘90s Dance Party
The Atlantic 
Nightspot — 10 p.m. 
Tickets $3
/uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   /uni2219   SUNDAY, MAY 31
The Game’s Afoot
Gainesville Community 
Playhouse — 2 p.m. 
Tickets $20 / Students $12Gathering The Magic
Market Street Pub 
and Cabaret — 7 p.m. 
Tickets $10THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    5-28-15-28-1
UNIVERSTIY COMMONS Across campus. Best deal in town. 1 room avail 6/1, $325/mo. 1 room avail (luxury room) 8/1, $350/mo. Utils, wi-fi & cable incl. #1 location for bus rte. Resort-style living & amenities. Beautifully furn'd. Ladies only. Call Belle 352-328-2477    6-11-1 1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 ● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitn ess center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $875/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    6-18-15-57-2
August: Cute & Clean Vintage 4BD/2.5BA house in NW behind Applebee's. Bike to UF/Downtown. Wood floors, CH/AC, W/D, fans $1680/mo. call/text: 352-575-4395 visit www.CozyGator.com    5-28-15-37-2
● ● ● BIKE TO UF. ● ● ● Large 4x2 house Travertine & granite bath-rooms, cent ac/ht, W/D. Modern kitchen, ga-rage, fenced. Landscape care incl. Avail Aug 14th, 1yr lease. No pets. $1490. 352-665-8166    5-28-15-28-2
Walk to UF Campus.
2/2; 2/1; 1/1; studios $1000-$550.
Avail(s) in May/Aug. Call/txt/email:
352-870-7256 or gvll32601@gmail.com   
 6-9-15-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   6-18-15-20-2
**LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION**
1, 2, 3 and 4 bedroom houses & apart-ments available for August. All near UF and Downtown. * CALL 870-2760 *    7-2-15-16-2
HALF BLOCK TO UF
$510 rent, August 1st. Four 3BR apts, quad, 1227 SW 4th Ave. A1 condition, extras paid for, free parking, compare. 352-514-5060    6-4-15-9-2
Apt for rent. Near Shands. 3300 SW 23rd St, Apt #2. 1BR/1BA w/ large screened-in porch. W/D hook-ups. $545/mo + $700 sec. Pets ok. 352-371-3473, leave message.   6-4-15-8-2GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATIONFall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2
TEN BEDROOM HOUSE!! Live with nine of your friends but don't be responsible for their rent! Double living rooms, washer/dryer sets and fridges! Lots of off street parking and walk to campus, completely renovated in fall 2014, this house is AMAZING! Call Campus Realty 352-692-3800    6-30-15-11-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of 
parking!      $700/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com    6-4-15-4-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, hardwood floors, W/D
$650-$775 352-505-5049     6-4-15-4-2
3 Bedroom, 2 bath home for rent. 7 blocks 
north of University. Carport, huge veranda, front porch. 1526 NW 7th Place. Available August 1. 407-496-5394    6-4-4-2
VINTAGE 2BR/2BA HOME, quiet area, bike to UF/Downtown, wood floors, high ceilings, fireplace, screened porch, breakfast nook. $1350 Call/text: 352-575-4395Email: 828@cozygator.com   6-2-15-2-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
Designated drivers are the greatestI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Available August 1st. Large room, pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 min from Shands. Perfect for med, engineering or grad student. Large, quiet, lovely home. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122    5-28-15-16-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
For Sale 3 BR 2 Bath. 7 blocks north of University. Carport, huge veranda, front porch. 1526 NW 7th Place. Contact Graham, 352-215-9900    6-4-4-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOPmattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas
-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
SAWMILLS from only $4,397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In Stock, ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com. 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    5-28-1-101For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified4 Roommates 2For Rent
unfurnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
8-17-25-11
TWO M150 SCOOTERS
Adult owned, garage kept, like new, each 
with less than 500 miles. $1000 Each or best 
offer. Both in Gainesville. Call 706-639-3133    
6-4-15-4-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-3191
8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-1298 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
2014 Jeep Compass for sale. 6600 mile-age, only one owner, great conditions, for $19,000. PRICE IS NEGOTIABLE   Call 832-851-7561     5-28-15-6-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 5-14-14-25-13 The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
1. HISTORY: When did the U.S. 
Supreme Court become a nine-mem-
ber body?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: The 
image of “Rosie the Riveter,” a wom-an working in a factory, arose from which war?
3. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What ani-
mal’s diet consists mainly of eucalyp-tus leaves?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of the Czech Republic?
5. MYTHOLOGY: What was the 
name of Orpheus’ beloved wife, doomed to die from a viper bite?
6. GAMES: In poker, what is a full 
house?
7. MEDICINE: What causes rickets 
in children?
8. LAW: What is the legal definition 
of “chattel”?
9. ETIQUETTE: Who is traditional-
ly supposed to host the bachelor’s par -
ty for a groom?
10. MUSIC: Who composed the 
opera “The Magic Flute”?
Answers
1. 1869, set by Congress2. World War II3. Koala 4. Prague5. Eurydice6. Three of a kind and a pair
7. Vitamin D deficiency
8. Personal property9. The best man 10. Mozart
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 25, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 AutosTHURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    8-17-14-25-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
RETAIL ADVERTISING MANAGER
FULL TIME POSITION
Sales driven person to train student sales 
staff in outside newspaper advertising 
sales. Motivator needed who works well 
with a constantly changing staff. Duties 
include training university students in 
outside newspaper sales, layout and copy 
writing. Must work well within and meet 
daily deadlines. Good organizational skills 
a must. Newspaper ad sales background 
an advantage. Modest salary, good benefits 
and excellent working environment. With 
resume, send cover letter that must include 
salary requirements, to: General Manager, 
The Independent Florida Alligator, P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, FL 32604 or email to 
tcarey@alligator.org.
No phone calls please. EOE
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Cafe Risque- Micanopy, FlCook/Manager positionsOn-job training, Age:18+352-466-3803Dancer Auditions Ongoing    7-2-25-14Alarm dispatcher neededpart-time weeknights/weekends. Must be able to pass a background check. Email resume to applications@cpss.net    7-2-15-14-14
Opus Coffee
We are searching for fun and active students 
to work 12 to 30 hours per week at a fast paced coffee bar near campus. 
Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employ -
ment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.              5-28-15-6-14
MEDICAL ASSISTANT needed for busy Dermatology office. Full Time with benefits or part time. Experience desired. Ideal for pre-med, nursing and allied health student. Min. one year commitment. Respond to ofmgrbeers@aol.com    6-11-15-10-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And 
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled  
$8.50/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
6-2-15-14-14
MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT
PT for a doctor's office. Experience pre-ferred. Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.
com      5-28-15-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.FREE Private Efficiency+$500 month + 
health insurance. Couple in late 40's needs 
gestational surrogate (our own egg)Prefer age 20-38 Healthy +had at least one baby.Open to offers. TEXT ONLY - 305 582 9800   7-9-15-14-14
BABYSITTER WANTED,
$12/hr - kids age 6 to 12. Experience re-
quired, emails resume and references to 
rosenson@ufl.edu    5-28-15-3-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, with
good customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
BEST BUY
Job Fair 5/28 9am-2pm
Competitive pay, flexible hours
Apply online and send resume to
Tatum.Rhoads@bestbuy.com
5-28-15-2-14
PART TIME SOCCER COACH wanted this 
summer for 8 year old boy and 6 year old girl. $30/hr plus $15 for each hour after first. Experience. Email resume and references to: rosenson@ufl.edu.    6-11-15-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
25 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    5-28-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    5-28-1-14
ATTN: CDL Drivers- Avg. $55k/year, $2,000 Sign-On Bonus, Family Company w/ Great Miles Love your Job and Your Truck. CDL-A Required - (888) 336-0422 www.drive-4melton.mobi   5-28-1-14Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    5-28-1-14
Want A Career Operating Heavy Equipment? Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators. Hands On Training! Certifications Offered. National Average 18-22hr. Lifetime Job Placement . VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    5-28-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  
8-17-14-25-15
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-14-
25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service24 hrs a day. Reservations available.Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2015
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 
mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    5-28-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    5-28-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Tired of Mood Altering Chemicals?
Let us help you.
Learn a new way of life.
No Dues or Fees
Local meetings on a regular basis.
For more information please call
Narcotics Anonymous
uncoastna.org
352-376-8008Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!
Rated 5-Star on Google Play!
Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-16-173-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  
Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    5-28-1-16
Designated drivers are the greatest
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Help with a heist
5 Senate __9 Rascal
14 First name in
fashion
15 First name in
fashion
16 Transmission
repair franchise
17 Digging tool with
an abstractpattern?
20 Wrecks
21 How a scolding
may be given
22 First and last
words of “Green
Eggs And Ham”
23 Winter Palace
resident
24 Mathematical
array with aspotted pattern?
31 Champagne
label word
32 Olympic hawk33 Reunion
attendee
34 3-Down is in it36 Arafat of the PLO39 Broadway feature40 Carne __42 Pupil’s place44 Letters from your
parents?
45 Fish with a linear
pattern?
49 Snaps50 Much51 College milieu55 Ghoulish59 Volume with a
plaid pattern?
61 Son of Abraham62 Top63 Run without
moving
64 “Married to the
Mob” director
65 Appealed
66 Some votes
DOWN
1 Twice vier
2 Lout3 Besides Chile,
the only S.A.country thatdoesn’t borderBrazil
4 Neck tissue5 Italian cuisine
herb
6 Cockpit figs.
7 Satya Nadella of
Microsoft, e.g.
8 Self-seeker9 Like nearly one-
third of Africa
10 Kirk or Picard:
Abbr.
11 Brest friend12 Year in which
Frederick II died
13 Snail-paced18 Bangladesh
capital
19 Streetcar relative23 Hard-to-call
contests
24 It was originally
named Brad’sDrink
25 Indian __26 Bust gp.27 Bronze
component
28 Orchestra section29 Madonna and
Lady Gaga
30 Gabrielle’s friend
31 Hotel freebie
35 Collection to burn37 “Now __ seen
everything!”38 Embarrassed
41 Tranquil
43 One way to be
taken
46 What some
eyeglasses lack
47 Polar concern48 Oil-rich
peninsula
51 Within52 One taken to
court
53 Leading man?54 Eighth of a fluid
ounce
55 Fast-spreading
Internet
phenomenon
56 Murder mystery
staple
57 Something to
cast
58 Laboriously
earns, with “out”
60 Stomach acid, to
a chemist
By David Poole©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/28/1505/28/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, May 28, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. Three players have hit 400 home 
runs in a Boston Red Sox uniform. 
Name them.
2. In 2014, Mike Zunino set a record 
for most home runs by a Seattle Mar -
iners catcher (22). Who had held the 
mark?
3. Denver’s Peyton Manning, in 
2013, became the second quarterback to be named to The Associated Press NFL All-Pro team seven times. Who was the first?
4. When was the last time that the 
Creighton men’s basketball team reached the NCAA Tournament’s 
Sweet 16?
5. In the 1959-60 season, Boston’s 
Doug Mohns became the second NHL 
defenseman to tally 20 goals in a sea-son. Who was the first?
6. How many consecutive seasons 
has NASCAR driver Jeff Gordon cap-tured at least one pole position?
7. When was the last time before 
2015 that tennis star Roger Federer failed to reach the Australian Open semifinals in men’s singles?
Answers
1. Ted Williams, Carl Yastrzemski 
and David Ortiz.
2. Miguel Olivo, with 19 in 2011.3. Cleveland’s Otto Graham.4. It was 1974.5. Detroit’s Flash Hollett, in the 
1944-45 season.
6. Twenty-three consecutive sea-
sons.
7. It was 2003.
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc
May 25, 2015 King Features Weekly Service15 Services 24 Pets 19 Connections 16 Health Services 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
The Florida men's golf team will 
compete at the NCAA Men's Golf Championship on Friday in Bradenton, Florida. Follow us for updates
Follow @Pinakk12  for updates on today's WCWS game againstT ennessee and follow @icohenb forupdates on Friday's baseball game. Three Gators earn All-American honors
University of Florida softball players Lauren Haeger (First T eam), Kelsey 
Stewart (First T eam), and Aleshia Ocasio (Third T eam) were selected to rep-
resent the Gators on the 2015 NFCA All-America teams. BASEBALL
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
His ﬁ  rst attempt was clocked at 
3.9 seconds, his second was around 
the same, and his third was a bit slower.
After showcasing his quickness 
from home plate to ﬁ  rst base in the Southeastern Conference Champion-ship, Buddy Reed claimed he could do it even faster, even though any time less than four seconds is al-ready classiﬁ  ed as exceptional.
“Yeah, I think I got clocked at a 
3.8 in the fall,” Reed said. “Maybe a 3.7.
“But in the beginning of the 
year… I didn’t run as hard as I pos-sibly could.”
The same can be said of the 
Gators.
As No. 4 seed Florida prepares for 
its NCAA Regional matchup against Florida A&M on Friday at 7 p.m., the Gators are just now reaching their 
peak, evidenced by the teams perfor-
mances over its last four games. 
Florida's pitchers combined for a 
1.59 ERA while its offense averaged 7.5 runs per game, and UF's defense committed just two errors.
The Gators hadn’t recorded num-
bers like those since the team's four-game winning streak in early April, 
when Florida defeated Stetson and swept South Carolina, both of whom 
failed to qualify for a Regional.
Even junior Harrison Bader, who 
had been struggling on the road all season, saw his fortunes turnaround in the SEC tournament. Bader hit a leadoff home run in the ﬁ  rst inning 
against Vanderbilt last Sunday.
“I don’t know when it really start-
ed,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said of the team’s improved play. “…I think 
that we were just sputtering along 
most of the year and, not quite sure 
what it was, maybe just the lack of consistency. Some guys would pitch good one weekend and then not good the next weekend. We’d 
swing the bat so good one weekend 
and then we might go cold the next weekend. I’m not quite sure.
“But the last 15 games or so, 
we’ve been sharp on all parts of our game.”
Florida (44-16) will carry its mo-
mentum into Friday's matchup with FAMU (23-23), a team UF lost to last 
year during the regular season, and 
a team that cracks the top-50 in just one of NCAA baseball’s statistical categories: hit batters (35).
Freshman JJ Schwarz has almost 
twice as many RBIs (60) as FAMU RBI-leader Ryan Kennedy (34). The Gators also lead the Rattlers in runs (397 to 211), home runs 52 to 20) and ERA (3.30 to 4.38).
But after four straight losses in its 
last two Regional appearances, Flori-
da isn’t taking anyone lightly.
“We’re not gonna come out ﬂ  at 
this time around,” Reed said. “We’re 
deﬁ  nitely gonna play with a chip on our shoulder and show the NCAA committee and everyone else that we’re the team to beat.”Gators eager to reverse recent NCAA Regional misfortune
INSTAGRAHAM
The longstanding rumors of corruption 
throughout FIFA appear to be true — but the president of soccer’s global governing body, Sepp Blatter, looks to have come out of Wednesday’s indictments unscathed.
At least for now.The U.S. government launched a wide-
spread corruption investigation on FIFA that began with the arrest of seven senior soc-cer ofﬁ  cials at FIFA headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland, and continued throughout the day with the search of afﬁ  liated ofﬁ  ces in Miami.
Following the raids, U.S. prosecutors 
would not say that Blatter was under inves-tigation, but that should be taken as nothing 
more than a formality.
If the charges the U.S. government and 
Swiss ofﬁ  cials are alleging are true, then it 
is hard to believe Blatter was ignorant to the inner-workings and alleged corruption of the organization he has overseen since 1998.
And the allegations? They’re scathing.U.S. authorities said that nine FIFA ofﬁ  -
cials and ﬁ  ve sports media and promotions 
executives have been charged in cases that involve more than $150 million in 
bribes over 24 years.
In order to explain how the 
world’s governing body for argu-ably the most popular sport in the 
world could engage in such large-
scale corruption, U.S. authorities — namely the Federal Bureau of Investigation — detailed the nu-merous other crimes they claim their investigation has revealed: money laundering, tax fraud and the illegal offshore accounts held by FIFA ofﬁ  cials that allegedly hold tens of millions of dollars.
“As charged in the indictment, the defen-
dants fostered a culture of corruption and 
greed that created an uneven playing ﬁ  eld 
for the biggest sport in the world,” FBI Di-rector James Comey said in a statement. “Undisclosed and illegal payments, kick-backs, and bribes became a way of doing business at FIFA.”
Apart from the entire U.S.-led investiga-
tion come charges from Swiss prosecutors who are investigating money laundering 
and bribery related to FIFA awarding the 2018 and 2022 World Cups to Rus-
sia and Qatar, respectively.
In 2013, "The Guardian" news-
paper was the ﬁ  rst to shine a light on the massive labor abuse that 
was occurring in Qatar, where 
worker mortality rates were climbing due to alleged forced la-bor combined with the scorching heat.
In a report by the Interna-
tional Trade Union Confederation, the ITUC claimed in March 2014 that more than 1,200 people had died in Qatar working on the World Cup — more than any other major international sporting event this decade.
Considering Qatar was awarded the bid 
in 2010, and laborers will work until 2022 on the facilities, the ITUC estimates that 4,000 workers will die in Qatar before the World Cup is held.
That is abhorrent, and anyone who thinks 
that is justiﬁ  able is out of his or her mind.
What might be the most alarming, how-
ever, is how calm FIFA seems about the en-
tire ordeal.Blatter is in Zurich, waiting to take the 
stage on Friday for the FIFA Congress. 
He’s up for re-election, and he’ll likely 
win again just like he has the last three elec-
tions.
The European soccer body, UEFA, has 
called for the election to be postponed, but FIFA has ignored those calls.
They’ll vote for Blatter regardless of the 
charges, the allegations of corruption and the proof of death that should hang over his head but somehow don’t.
They’ll act like nothing happened in Qa-
tar, as if the country deemed to be too hot in summer for soccer had won the bid fairly 
rather than with a $5 million bribe.
“Let me be clear: such misconduct has 
no place in football and we will ensure that 
those who engage in it are put out of the game,” Blatter said in a statement Wednes-day.
The misconduct has had a blatant and 
condonable place under Blatter, and if he’s a man of his word, he should step down 
and not seek re-election if he actually cares 
about the integrity of the game. 
FIFA corruption investigation alleges decades of crimes
Graham Hall
twitter: @graham311Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Buddy Reed bats during Florida's 14-3 win against South Carolina on April 10 at McKethan Stadium.
“The last 15 games or so, we've 
been sharp on all parts of our 
game.”
Kevin O'Sullivan
UF baseball coach16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Writer
@Pinakk12
It might be easy to assume that 
Florida softball, the No. 1 overall 
seed and defending national cham-pions, should win another title the following year.
Heck, they lost just two starters 
from 2014 and are on a roll this post-season.
But to really understand how dif-
ficult a repeat is, you have to step into the cleats of someone who’s been there and done it.
Someone like Jennie Finch, the 
most famous softball player in his-
tory, according to TIME Magazine in 
2008.
“Being ranked No. 1 and being 
the defending national champions, everyone’s gonna give [Florida] their best,” Finch said. “The bull’s-eye is on their back.”
As a three-time NFCA First-Team 
All-American and two-time Pac-10 
Pitcher of the Year, Finch was the 
ace of Arizona’s pitching staff in her four years from 1999-2002.
Finch took the No. 1 overall-seed-
ed Arizona Wildcats to the NCAA Women’s College World Series and won a national championship in 2001.
Finch finished that year with a 
perfect 32-0 record, an NCAA record for most wins in a season without a loss.But 2002 was a different story for 
Finch and the Wildcats.
The No. 2 overall seed in the 
NCAA Softball Tournament, Arizo-na went all the way to the national championship before California de-feated them.
Arizona’s head coach at the time, 
Mike Candrea, has lead the program for the last 30 years and has won eight national championships — two 
of which followed a national cham-
pionship year (1994 and 1997).
Finch said Candrea used to say 
that winning back-to-back titles was the hardest thing to do, despite hav-ing done it twice.
“He said it’s one thing to win it 
but to go back-to-back is extremely hard,” Finch said.
This is Florida’s first opportunity 
to win back-to-back championships, and Finch thinks the Gators have what it takes to repeat.
“I think Florida has an edge be-
cause they’ve done it,” Finch said. “They know what it’s like, they’ve been there before.”
Finch can relate to Florida’s re-
cent string of success.
She entered the Wildcat program 
at the end of a softball legacy. Ari-zona had amazingly been to the final game of the WCWS for eight straight years from 1991-98. Ironically, that streak was broken in 1999 — her freshman season.
Similarly, Florida has been to sev-
en of the past eight WCWS and has played in three championship series (‘09, ‘11, ‘14).
In the past 10 years, four of the 
No. 1 overall seeds have gone on to win the WCWS (’05 – Michigan, ’07 – Arizona, ’11 – Arizona State, ’13 – Oklahoma).
Finch said experience and vet-
eran players play a huge role in win-ning back-to-back championships. 
“You have that swagger about 
you,” Finch said. “You have that confidence which is huge because so many other schools don’t have that and Florida does.”While experience and confidence 
gives Florida an edge, Finch said that 
UF still has to play its best softball 
possible.
“I think you have to be firing on 
all cylinders at the right time,” Finch said. “Timely hitting, timely pitching [and] timely defense.”
Florida’s version of Finch? That 
would be Lauren Haeger, the 2015 USA Softball National Collegiate 
Player of the Year.
“Lauren Haeger is just incred-
ible,” Finch said. “Not only with the 
bat but in the circle as well, and I think she can truly lead them back to where they were last year.”
Haeger is doing all she can to lead 
the Gators to another ring.
The senior from Peoria, Arizona, 
has tossed each of Florida’s last 29 innings this postseason in regional and super regional play, allowing zero earned runs in that span.
Like Finch in 2001, Haeger has 
been nearly perfect as her record sits at 28-1. She was 24-0 before a 2-1 loss to Tennessee in the South-eastern Conference Tournament on 
May 8.
“National championships start in 
the circle,” Finch said. “Hannah Rog-
ers did that for them last year, and I think Lauren Haeger is doing that for them this year. They have what it takes, it’s just a matter of getting there and firing on all cylinders.”
While both Finch and Haeger 
won national championships in their junior seasons, only Finch was in the circle for the final out of one.
Haeger started the final game 
against Alabama last year, but Han-nah Rogers recorded the last out as she closed out the win. 
Finch described the final moment 
as best as she could.
“Oh my gosh, nothing better,” 
Finch said. “It’s what you dream about. It’s just to kind of be there and be the last team standing and be excited.”
Haeger said after Sunday’s 1-0 
win over Kentucky that sent the Gators to the WCWS that she had never been the winning pitcher in a 
game like that.
And after all the hard work Hae-
ger’s put into becoming an ace this 
season, she might just get a taste of what Finch experienced in 2001.
“It’s just a huge relief and just a 
joy that is pretty much indescribable and so much fun,” Finch said. “Ev-ery blood, sweat and tear that went 
into getting there was so worth it.”20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY MAY 28, 2015
SOFTBALL
Aced It: Former Arizona pitcher talks UF softball, WCWS
Jennie Finch (2001): 32-0
At the plate: .313 AVG 
0.54 ERA, 11 HR, 57 RBI
No. 1 Arizona (2001): 65-4 
Ended in National ChampionshipFlorida’s ace in 2015 vs. Arizona’s ace in 2001
Lauren Haeger (2015): 28-1
At the plate: .329 AVG 1.24 ERA, 16 HR, 64 RBI
No. 1 Florida (2015): 55-6 
Starting WCWS today