VOLUME 109 ISSUE 89 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Tour de Fuchs: UF president goes on speaking tour
First stop this Friday in Orlando, pg. 5.
Discovery Cube in Heavener Hall hosts career assessment
It opened with the new building, pg. 8.UF grad expands ice pop business
Locations are opening in Butler Plaza and the 
Roberts’ Stadium Club, pg. 5.AARON ZEILER
Alligator Contributing Writer
While the sun shines down upon 
the Swamp, New England is being bat-
tered by high winds and heavy snow.
But life and travel continue to re-
main relatively normal in the north-
east in spite of winter storm Juno. 
At the Gainesville Regional Air-
port, the four airlines that ﬂ  y in and 
out have yet to cancel any ﬂ  ights, said Laura Aguiar, manager of public rela-tions and governmental affairs.
Planes that ﬂ  y from Gainesville Re-
gional Airport only go as far north as Charlotte, North Carolina, which has 
not been struck by Juno. Cancella-
tions are only an issue with connect-ing ﬂ  ights.
“We’re a business travel market, 
and a lot of business travelers head to-ward Boston and New York,” Aguiar said.
Aguiar said this has not impact-
ed the airport because airlines have already told passengers to change 
ﬂ  ights.
Angela Barnes, an 18-year-old UF 
freshman, said her family told her the 
storm is not as bad as the one she ex-perienced in Pittsburgh in 2008.
“I’ve been getting a bunch of pic-
tures from family, friends. About a foot and a half of snow this morning,” the accounting major said. 
One of the people booking a ﬂ  ight 
for Friday is Tyler Lares, a 21-year-old recent UF graduate who is moving to New York City. Lares wrote in an email that he and a friend originally planned to drive to New York, but winter storm Juno provided danger-ous driving conditions.
“No road trip for us, unfortunate-
ly,” Lares said.Despite a 
successful freshman 
season with the UF 
softball team, pitcher 
Delanie Gourley still 
has room to improve. 
Read the story on 
Page 13.
Blizzard no problem for GNV
59/32
FORECAST 2
OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
UF’s decision to replace the 
current student records system 
has one UF student feeling espe-cially relieved.
The Integrated Student Infor-
mation System, or ISIS, has been used since January 1997 by stu-dents to access important infor-mation like schedules and degree status.
For 20-year-old marketing 
sophomore Emily Weiss, the name is a painful reminder.
Weiss’ cousin, Steven Sotloff, 
was one of the journalists public-ly executed by the terrorist orga-nization Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, commonly known as ISIS, last year.
Weiss is reminded of the orga-nization that killed Sotloff every time she logs into the system.
“I would type ‘ISIS’ on my 
computer and the images would start showing up ... and they’re 
very disturbing images,” Weiss 
said.
Weiss took her concerns about 
the system’s name to associ-ate dean of students Tanja Phil-hower, who told her the univer-sity was already in the process of 
changing the name.
The name isn’t all that’s being 
changed, however.
The whole system is in the 
process of being replaced, Diana 
Hull, a senior associate at the university registrar, wrote in an email.
Hull said the process has been 
ongoing for several years and be-gan before the terrorist organiza-tion gained worldwide notoriety.
There is currently no esti-
mated completion date and the project is still in the preliminary 
stages, she said. It began with an 
evaluation of ISIS and research into options that would best ﬁ  t the university’s needs and mod-ernize the infrastructure.
A company has been selected 
to complete the update, said UF Dean of Students Jen Day Shaw. But in the meantime, changes 
can’t be made to the current sys-
tem, including the name.
“As you can imagine, when 
UF’s ISIS to be renamed to avoid Islamic State connection
Name, date of change undeterminedAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Gator Jam
Estrella Quiroz, a 19-year-old UF freshman, prepares to toss a plastic basketball into 
a miniature hoop set up by the Gator Cheerleaders on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday. 
ARIANA FIGUEROA
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
The Swamp Party won’t be the only party 
with executive candidates in the upcoming 
Spring 2015 Student Government elections.
An unlikely trio involving a law student, an 
independent UF student senator and a former 
Swamp Party senator came together to lead a 
new minority party — Access Party.
“It is nice when people have choices, and 
we want to commit ourselves to a more open, transparent and fair student government for 
everyone,” said Access Party treasurer Ford Dwyer.
All three candidates on Access Party’s bal-
lot are current and former Swamp senators. 
The  candidates are Joselin Padrone-Rasines for Student Body president, Kevin Doan for Student Body vice president and Nick Carre 
for Student Body treasurer. 
Padrone-Rasines said she has noticed posi-
tions given in SG are often based on connec-
tions rather than merit.
“Once you’re in Student Government, you 
realize that it works for those who are power-Access Party aims to make 
SG open to all students
SEE SG, PAGE 4
SEE SG, PAGE 4STUDENT GOVERNMENTNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 89 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY THURSDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
75/59PARTLY 
CLOUDY
68/49SUNNY
67/40SUNNY
68/42SUNNY
59/32
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. and tips on installation. More 
information is available on-line at ncfrailroadclub.wee-
bly.com.
Disc Golf tournament
Registration for the Lake 
Wauburg Ninth Annual 
disc golf tournament opens 
Saturday at 9 a.m. The tourna-ment will be played on the 18-
hole disc golf course at Lake 
Wauburg’s south shore on Feb. 21. The tournament will have two heats with 18 holes each. There are three divi-
sions: men’s amateur, wom-
en’s amateur and advanced. 
The top three participants in 
each division will receive a 
prize. There will also be two contests — longest drive and closest to the pin — that will 
take place during the event. 
The winners of each of these contests will also receive a prize. To register, visit rscon-nect.recsports.ufl.edu.
Fulbright Talk
Eileen Ariza will speak Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. in McCarty Hall D, Room 
G001. Ariza is a profes-
sor at Florida Atlantic University and a Fulbright Ambassador.  Before mov-ing to Florida, Ariza was 
a Teaching Fellow in the 
English Language Institute at Harvard University and taught English and related 
work in several countries, 
including Mexico, Colombia, Ecuador, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Brazil, Spain and the Philippines. Come 
and learn about the Fulbright 
experience! For off-campus audiences, videoconferencing via Polycom will be available. 
Refreshments and network-
ing after lecture. For more information about this event, contact professor Charlie Guy 
at clguy@ufl.edu.
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-
crease your global aware-
ness, enhance your foreign 
language skills, make friends, establish new contacts, strengthen your resume and intern abroad. All of these op-
portunities will be available at 
the Study Abroad Fair on Feb. 4 on the Plaza of the Americas 
from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. For ad-
ditional information visit ufic.
ufl.edu/sas/index.html or 
email dmcneil@ufic.ufl.edu.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays
Talking Gators meets 
Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Intramural sports
Registration for sand vol-
leyball and team racquetball ends Thursday at noon. Spring 
leagues for sand volleyball 
include men’s, women’s and co-rec. Leagues for racquetball include men’s, women’s, frater-nity and sorority. For more in-
formation about rules, registra-
tion and game schedules, visit recsports.ufl.edu/intramural-
sports/schedule/.
Gay Movie Night: ‘In Bloom’
Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Pride 
Community Center at 3131 
NW 13th St., this witty, intelli-
gent and painfully honest tale 
is set during one hot Chicago 
summer, when two young men fall in love. Add the fore-
boding threat of a killer on the 
loose, and this incredibly rich and rewarding film becomes 
unmissable. Kurt and Paul 
seem very solid and in love, liv-
ing large in their home city of 
Chicago thanks in part to Kurt’s successful pot-dealing busi-
ness. Everything is going their 
way. But when a sexy young 
customer makes a play for Kurt, 
subtle fissures in their relation-ship and an unsatisfied long-
ing for what they don’t have 
are exposed, threatening their relationship and possibly their lives. Gay Movie Night is a free service of the Pride Community 
Center. A $2 donation is re-
quested to cover cost of snacks.
Rock the Block with GatorNights
This week, we’re collaborating with a lot of awesome student groups to bring you an event like no other! Get to know the Asian American Student Union 
at the Block Party on the North 
Lawn Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Laugh out loud with Reitz Union Board Entertainment and Cat Ladies, an all-female 
improv comedy trio includ-
ing Nicole Byer of MTV’s “Girl Code.” Enjoy free food, games 
and live music from Like the 
Movies. This is a party you 
don’t want to miss. It’s always 
Friday and always free with your Gator 1 Card.
Model railroader workshop
Model railroaders and people interested in the hobby have a special opportunity to learn 
and share Saturday in Alachua. 
The event is open to the public. Beginners are welcome. The 
program is from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Admission is $5 per person. 
Workshops will be held in the 
fellowship hall of First United Methodist Church, located at 
14805 NW 140th St. Skilled in-
structors will conduct work-
shops, and experienced hobby-
ists will show samples of their work. A lighting workshop will 
feature use of LED lighting on 
a layout. The session will cover electrical needs, selecting LEDs Room 1301 of the Entomology 
Building off of Natural Area 
Drive, east of the Samuel P. 
Harn Museum of Art. For more 
information go to talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org. Talking 
Gators is also on Facebook. 
“The mission of Toastmasters 
is to provide a supportive and 
positive learning experience in which members are em-
powered to develop commu-
nication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confi-dence and personal growth.” All are welcome.
Creative Writing Club
Do you love to write? Want to improve your writing skills while making new friends? Then come to the Creative Writing Club every Wednesday 
at 3 p.m. in Matherly Hall, 
Room 014. Meetings involve reading and responding to a short story written by a mem-ber of the group and then 
discussing the story with the 
whole group with a focus on constructive criticism. There are no requirements to join; just come and have fun with us.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Kathleen Hawk, center, speaks with Adolfo Leyva de Varona and Lillian Guerra in Pugh Hall 
on Tuesday night at a discussion panel about the Mariel Boatlift of 1980.
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer hwilliamson@alligator.org
Hundreds of Cuban spies inﬁ  ltrated 
the U.S. when up to 125,000 Cubans im-
migrated to Florida in 1980.
The disaster’s impact on the U.S. 
was discussed Tuesday at the Graham Center by Kathleen Dupes Hawk and 
Adolfo Leyva de Varona, authors of 
“Florida and the Mariel Boatlift of 1980: 
The First Twenty Days,” and Professor Lillian Guerra.
“To the best of our knowledge, they 
are still in different parts of our gov-ernment,” Hawk said. “Unfortunately, 
they inﬁ  ltrated the highest levels of 
government.”
De Varona said some spies were 
sent to the U.S. with various tasks, in-
cluding observing and collecting infor-
mation from the U.S. government and military and Cuban-American groups.
Katalya Liu, a 20-year-old UF politi-
cal science sophomore, said she found it disturbing that there could be Cuban 
spies high up in U.S. government posi-
tions.
“It could probably make a big dif-
ference in the few years that are com-
ing now between Obama and Castro,” 
Liu said, adding that even after Obama leaves ofﬁ  ce, there could be issues with 
spies remaining within the govern-
ment.
With relation policies changing be-
tween the U.S. and Cuba, Guerra said she believes Americans visiting Cuba could lead to a democratizing effect in 
the country.
“(Americans) create debate, they 
bring knowledge of what life is like in the United States” and it leaves Cubans 
wishing for the same political freedom Americans have, she said.
She compared Cuban-Americans 
coming from Cuba to spy on the U.S. 
with Americans going overseas to train 
with the Islamic State and then return-ing to carry out terror attacks.UF professor moderates talk 
with ‘Mariel Boatlift’ authorsCAMPUSyou think of all the data we 
have, it’s a big project, so it’s not goig to be done next month, but it is in process,” Shaw said. “So it’s not an 
immediate fix, but it will be 
fixed.”
Even if the timing was a 
coincidence, Weiss said she felt UF took her concerns se-riously when she approached them.
Weiss, who was told the 
dean of students office had 
received several other com-
plaints from students and par-ents, said she is glad for the name change, regardless of the cause.
“Last year, there was a 
lot of confusion about what group had kidnapped him,” 
she said. “Once it was estab-
lished that it was ISIS, (the system) crossed my mind.”
Without the reminder of 
his death, Weiss will be able to remember Sotloff for who he was.
“He was very adventurous, 
he was very free-spirited, he 
was very kind and he really, 
really cared about people,” Weiss said.4, ALLIGATOR � WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
AP Photo
Let it Snow
Edmond Samarxhi of Worcester uses a snowblower to make a path in front of his home on June Street 
in Worchester, Massachusetts, on Tuesday.
ISIS , from page 1UF student relative of 
beheaded journalistParty leadership from both sides
ful or well connected,” she said.
Doan said the new party’s three main foundations 
are accessibility, accountability and efficiency.
“This is something that we feel that will more ac-
curately represent all the students,” he said.
Party leadership comes from both sides of the aisle.
For three months, Access Party President Matthew 
Hoeck served as a replacement senator for a liberal arts seat in Fall 2013. He then chose to run with Swamp Party.
Dwyer, currently a first-year UF law student, was 
a founding member of another minority party — Stu-dents Party. For two semesters, he served as a Students Party senator for Murphree and District D. 
“We want to show students that we’re the ones that 
are going to change this university,” Dwyer said.
The party’s campaign manager, Michael Christ, is 
currently an independent UF student senator repre-senting graduate students. 
Christ said there has been discontent in SG for years.“If we want to see the changes that we know the 
university and Student Body deserves, then we actu-ally have to join together and take a stand,” he said.
Hoeck said the purpose of the party is to combine 
old and current members of SG who share a common goal to make SG more accessible for every student.
“It’s a broad coalition,” he said.  “The goal is to be 
using as many multi-platforms as possible and to be interacting with as many students as possible.” 
Current Student Body President Cory Yeffet said he 
is supportive of seeing more students getting involved in Student Government.
The other registered parties are Pants Party, Ignite 
Party, Keg Party, Greek Party, Growl, Horizon Party and Impact Party. 
“It’s time,” Padrone-Rasines said. “Instead of talk-
ing about what can be done to change Student Govern-ment, we’re actually doing it.”SG , from page 1 IT ONLY AFFECTED FACULTY, 
NOT STUDENTS.
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer afisher@alligator.org
A malicious email infected several 
hundred computers used by UF faculty 
and staff Monday morning. 
Just before 10:30 a.m., the UF Infor-
mation Security staff became aware of a 
large amount of emails containing an at-
tached malicious code being distributed in the UF mail system, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
“One particular aspect of the mal-
ware that we observed is that it is used to distribute bulk email spam,” she said.
UF is attacked from outside sources 
daily, she said, and nearly all of it is 
blocked. 
This case was no different: The email and infected computers were contained 
within an hour of initial notification through both email filters and network blocks, Derrius Marlin, UF data security specialist, wrote in an email. 
On Tuesday, the UF Information 
Technology staff restored the infected devices, analyzed malware to better 
understand its capabilities, worked to 
determine how it entered the system and worked to implement safeguards to better protect email users from email threats, Sikes said.
The UFIT staff was notified as to 
which of the computers under their management were infected, taking steps to rebuild and restore them, Marlin said. 
UFIT works hard at protecting its us-
ers from threats external to its network. As a result of this incident, UF will ex-plore options to better protect users from email threats internally distribut-ed, he said.Malware infects computers 
on campus through email
ELENA CASTELLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sarjit Kellerman left her 
home country of Malaysia 
more than 30 years ago, but Tuesday night, she got a taste of the issues her native country faces. 
At 7:30 p.m. Kellerman sat 
among an audience of more 
than 20 in the in Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts Audi-torium, taking in 15Malaysia, a collection of 15 short films.
Scenes of corruption, rac-
ism, prostitution, pedophilia and bribery flashed in the dark room.
The short films feature Ma-
laysian celebrities and politi-cians, revealing the truth of Malaysian society.After the film, the producer 
Pete Teo stepped forward to answer questions. 
“As for my inspiration, I 
would say it came from be-ing pissed off,” Teo said to the crowd. 
He said the three-month 
production was launched on 
the Internet for free down-
load, and after just 60 days, it reached 15 million views.
Some films were humor-
ous, like “Meter,” which fea-tured a taxi driver who became worked up over Malaysian football, language and politics. Others, such as “Lollipop” and 
“Dut Kecil,” featured more 
serious issues like pedophilia, kidnapping and prostitution.
A behind-the-scenes look 
into one film, “Chocolate,” gave an inside look into one of the directors who had been “Malaysia’s most important filmmaker for 30 years,” Teo said. 
Before the film began, Ley-
diana Martin, a 20-year-old UF civil engineering sophomore, said she had only a slight idea 
about what the film compila-
tion could be about. 
“I know it’s about social un-
rest,” Martin said. She noted the stars were all Malaysian ac-tors, but otherwise she did not know what to expect.
Kellerman left in awe.“I was touched, in a way, 
sad,” Kellerman, 62, said. “I feel liberated here in America, especially with the freedom. Malaysia is my home, but I couldn’t live there.” Collection of 15 short films  
brings Malaysia to the StatesCYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writercdunn@alligator.org
After Tuesday night’s UF 
Student Senate meeting, Chris-
tian athletes and Students for a Democratic Society are now able to fund their organiza-
tions’ events for another year.
Senators approved $1,171.45 
for Fellowship of Christian 
Athletes and approved $212.10 for SDS. The money will be used on advertising, printing fees, food and bringing guest speakers to meetings.
The bills were passed unani-
mously at the beginning of 
the meeting after Sen. Austin 
Chamboux and Sen. Hadar Arazi motioned. Senate members also read 
through a resolution support-ing the advancement of public safety on campus and in the surrounding areas. It was the result of a November meeting between City Commission and the Senate judiciary committee.
The resolution includes safe-
ty measures such as expanding 
lighting on and off campus and 
crosswalk safety measures in areas with heavier traffic.
“This was something where 
(senators) ... and the city com-mission saw a big need,” Sen. Katie Burns said, “and they were able to come together and spark some interesting conver-
sations that will hopefully in-
spire real change.”UF Senate proposes 
public safety solution
Doan 
 Padrone-Rasines
 Carre
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
 THE FIRST STOP IS 
ORLANDO.
ZEE KRSTIC
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs 
will begin a multi-city tour Fri-
day during which he’ll share his goals for his presidency and plans for making UF a top 10 public research university.
The first stop is Friday at 7 
p.m. at Full Sail University in Orlando. The city is home to more than 33,000 UF alumni, said UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes.
Full Sail University was 
founded by UF graduate Bill Heavener — a trustee, donor and “grand friend of the Uni-versity of Florida,” Sikes said. 
The tour will continue to 
major cities across the nation to meet with the greater UF com-munity and create a list of pri-orities for his presidency, Sikes said. He will be meeting with alumni, donors, legislators and media.
“The listening tour is just a 
way for him to get out in the community and to meet peo-ple,” she said. “They can un-derstand him, where he’s com-ing from and his values.”
Sikes added the tour is part 
of Fuchs’ plan to bring UF to national prominence.
“The president plans to be-
gin a strategic planning pro-cess, or a ‘visioning’ process,” Sikes said. “We have pretty big aspirations to become a top 10 
public research university, and 
it’s going to take all of us to get there.”
UF spokesman Steve Or-
lando said he believes people attending the free, invitation-only event will have the chance to share their own hopes for UF’s future during a Q-and-A session after Fuchs’ speech.
“The event, as the name 
implies, is to listen — to hear what the guests have to say,” Orlando said. “And, of course, using that information to create long-term goals for the future.”
Luisa Bolivar, a 22-year-old 
UF public relations alumna, said she credits her UF degree to the Machen Florida Op-portunity Scholars program, which provides low-income, first-generation students with scholarships to the university developed by former UF presi-dent Bernie Machen.
Bolivar lives in the Orlando 
area and currently works with the Disney Institute. She said she will be attending the event Friday and plans to speak on behalf of the program.  
“For me, it’s a great oppor-
tunity to talk about the pro-gram which was the reason why I was able to attend UF,” she said.  
Bolivar said she believes 
Machen’s legacy in the schol-arship program is vital to UF students and hopes Fuchs will continue to support the pro-gram. She also said she is look-ing forward to meeting the new president and other alumni.
“It’s a great way to connect 
UF alumni to the university since I don’t have the chance to go back a lot,” she said. “I’m ex-cited to represent FOS students once more.”Tour de Fuchs: UF 
prez to go on multi-city speaking tour 
Fuchs will be traveling the country 
as part of a multi-listening tour, which 
kicks off Friday. Among other cities, he 
will be stopping in:
Orlando
Miami
Fort Lauderdale
Tampa
St. Petersburg
Jacksonville 
AtlantaLOCAL
JAMES MCLAUGHLIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A gourmet ice pop store is ex-
panding across town with the ad-dition of two new pop shops.
The Hyppo Gourmet Ice Pops 
chain is opening a new store in But-ler Plaza by 4 Rivers Smokehouse and will have its grand opening Saturday. The second new location will be inside Roberts’ Stadium Club next to Cheese Daddy and will have its soft opening mid-Feb-ruary.
“It’s been really exciting, espe-
cially since UF is my alma mater,” said owner Stephen DiMare. “The people in Gainesville really get what we are doing and appreciate it, so it’s really awesome.”
Hyppo features more than 500 
recipes and 150 flavors that ro-tate seasonally. The ice pop store typically has a selection of 30 to 40 available flavors at one time.
DiMare said one part of  Hyp-
po’s fun atmosphere is “you never know what you’re going to get.”
Some of the most popular fla-
vors in the store are champagne mango, key lime, espresso, pineap-ple cilantro and granny’s apple pie. 
One particular flavor, Elvis, is 
made with peanut butter, banana and honey. Each ice pop costs $3.50 and can be dipped in chocolate for $1 more. 
DiMare said he and Brent Smith, 
the Gainesville Hyppo general manager, both commute between St. Augustine — where the pop-sicles are made — and Gainesville once a week.
Eric Weber, the director of op-
erations at the Flood Insurance Agency, and his wife Palveshay Weber, a 22-year-old underwriter, are both excited for the openings.
“The Hyppo is a great alterna-
tive to the traditional Gainesville dessert scene,” said Eric, 24, “and I’m surprised it took so long to open new locations.”
UF graduate expands downtown 
ice pop business with two locations Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Flooding on Museum
Water spills past barriers and sandbags onto the sidewalk along Museum Road. As of press time, the 
UF Physical Plant Division was unavailable to comment.
Alligator File Photo
Nicole Giaquinto, a 20-year-old UF public relations sophomore, displays a chocolate-covered ice pop at The Hyppo Gourmet Ice Pops in April. The pop shop is opening two more locations this Spring.
“The listening tour is 
just a way for him to get 
out in the community 
and to meet people.”
Janine Sikes
UF spokeswomanReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Medical marijuana 
bill revives hope 
for Florida sick
Disappointed by the failure of last year’s medical mari-
juana amendment? 
Well, it looks like we’re getting another — and more 
secure — chance, thanks to legislation ﬁ  led Monday that would legalize medical marijuana for patients with certain conditions. 
Last November we saw voters’ approval of medical marijua-
na in Florida; 57 percent voted in favor of the amendment. But thanks to another amendment to the state constitution approved in 2006, amendments must garner 60 percent of the vote in or-der to pass. As would only happen in Florida, that amendment passed with a “yes” from 57 percent of voters. Ironically, that 
particular majority rubber stamped an amendment ensuring 
any subsequent majorities of that size would be invalid. 
Which is why, with a clear electoral majority, we are still 
without medical marijuana in Florida. 
While we can’t rectify our re-election of a man who was able 
to slither his way out of the largest fraud settlement in history only by invoking the Fifth Amendment — 75 times — we may have another shot at legal medical marijuana. 
Our great green hope, in this case, comes in the form of St. 
Petersburg Sen. Jeff Brandes. 
Interestingly, Brandes belongs to the Republican Party — the 
party that so enthusiastically venerates Ronald Reagan, whose crusade against weed still earns him the ire of activists and ston-ers everywhere. 
Maybe it’s because the times are changing; maybe it’s be-
cause of the broad support medical marijuana has in Florida. Maybe people saw the 23 states that allow medical marijuana haven’t yet descended into hellﬁ  re and ruin. Or perhaps it has something to do with cannabis’ proven ability to help the sick. 
In fact, there already is a law on the books in Florida which 
recognizes this fact. Last year, a speciﬁ  c strain of marijuana, Charlotte’s Web, was legalized to treat seizures. The strain is fa-mous in medical marijuana circles. Web has a potent amount of CBD, one of the two compounds in marijuana, but lacks THC. 
CBD produces calming, antipsychotic effects while THC is asso-
ciated with the high. Charlotte’s Web actually used to be called “Hippie’s Disappointment,” before it was successfully used to treat a severely epileptic girl named Charlotte. 
Unfortunately, this law hasn’t cut the mustard. It’s been so 
tied down by bureaucracy and challenges that the people who need Charlotte’s Web still aren’t able to get it. Brandes’ bill would cut through the obstacles, and provide marijuana to pa-tients with other diseases. 
A critique of Amendment 2 was its broad nature; opponents 
believed anyone able to fake a headache would get access to pot. 
That won’t happen with this bill: Brandes listed speciﬁ  c ill-
nesses for which patients can receive medical marijuana. These include HIV/AIDs, cancer, ALS, crohn’s disease and a few other debilitating diseases which marijuana may help alleviate. 
Hopefully, Scott and his government are prepared to ap-
prove the bill and allow the sick Floridians to get help they need.
53 TOTAL VOTES32% YES
68% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgTuesday’s question: Do you think bear 
hunting in Florida should resume? Today’s question: Would you vote for a new party in 
Student Government?Undocumented immigrants need licenses
Any time I hear news regarding immigration policy in Arizona, I hold my breath. First, they passed a bill allowing police ofﬁ  cers to demand documen-
tation from people who prompt “reasonable suspicion” of being in the country illegally. Then, they banned Latino literature and ethnic studies from the classroom because it supposedly fosters racial resentment — as if banning an entire culture from the classroom doesn’t kindle any resentment. Thursday, however, I exhaled a sigh of relief while reading about Arizona in The New York Times. U.S. District Judge David Campbell issued a permanent injunc-tion requiring the state to issue driver’s licenses to immi-grants who have been deferred from deportation under President Obama’s DREAM Act.
These DREAMers are young immigrants who have 
never been convicted of a felony and are high school-ed-ucated, in school or have served in the military. They’ve been given permission by the federal government to live and work here for renewable periods of two years. Since 2012, they have been banned from receiving licenses by former Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer.
My response to Brewer’s ban that prevented DREAM-
ers from being licensed would likely ﬁ  ll the entire Opin-ions section for the rest of the semester, so I’ll leave that for another lifetime. For now, I want to focus on what this means for Arizona and where there is room for improve-ment in our country.
About 80,000 DREAMers can now be licensed and are 
eligible to buy car insurance. They will no longer be forced to rely on substandard public transportation, ridiculously long commutes to work or nerve-wracking drives to the supermarket. They will be eligible for more jobs, and they will be safer drivers. Their new sense of mobility, how-ever, is something the majority of undocumented immi-grants don’t have.  
For the rest of the more than 400,000 undocumented 
immigrants in Arizona, legal transportation options are still lacking. In fact, undocu-mented immigrants in 40 states remain ineligible for driver’s licenses. Congress has failed to produce a realistic naturaliza-tion process, and these people are not protected by the DREAM Act. They turn to their state gov-ernments for help — to no avail. These families continue to live in anxiety and struggle, and they’re unable to contribute to our coun-
try as much as they potentially could.
To put this in relatable terms, imagine not being al-
lowed to use your usual form of transportation for one week. For me, I would be without the 118 bus. I’d have to walk or ride my bike to class, and it would be an exhaust-ing hassle. I probably wouldn’t make it to many of my involvements, and Southwest Recreation Center wouldn’t even be a thought. Now imagine yourself having to live like that for the rest of your life. It’s unfair.
A few weeks ago, California became the 10th state to 
award driver’s licenses without requiring proof of U.S. cit-izenship. Let’s make Florida the 11th. The right to drive to work should not be something solely afforded to citizens. People who escape dangerous lives of poverty in order to work some of America’s most physically demanding jobs should be eligible for these little laminated cards. They deserve a sliver of stability in their lives, and I’m disap-pointed there isn’t a movement to give it to them.
I applaud the step taken by Judge Campbell, but we 
need to bring more people out of the shadows. Let’s make our roads safer, and let’s empower the people who wish to drive on them. Then we will have a stronger workforce that will help our country thrive.
Christopher Wilde is a UF biochemistry freshman. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Christopher 
Wilde
opinions@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
I was eating lunch last week and heard, “It 
weighs 8 grams.” My eardrum sent a text to the memory library, forcing an intern to check 
Catalog Random. The intern hunted the shelves, returning to the master librarian red-faced and wheezing. “Weight is 8 grams times 9.8 m/s
2,” 
the intern gasped, “but how do we explain?” To illuminate complex ideas, I look to a computer 
science concept called abstraction.
It turns out I can use abstraction principles in essay writ-
ing, daily conversations and even job interviews. Fellow ca-
reer fair participants should be afraid.
Freshman year, when I took an introductory object-orient-
ed programming course, I couldn’t understand why my pro-fessor spent hours jabbering on about fancy words. I wanted to hurry up and make money. Silly me.
The game plays like this: First, a programmer designs an 
interface — labeled buttons for a user to press to talk with the computer program. If I’m creating an interface for a car ob-ject, I’d better give it the capability to drive, park and break. Otherwise it wouldn’t be a very useful way to get to Lake 
Wauburg.
Next, I could tell the computer what driving, parking and 
stopping mean, but I’m going to hold back. There’s a lot of 
messy calculus involved. Instead, I want to describe the car — I’m going to give it an engine. I switched out of the Col-
lege of Engineering sophomore year, so I’m going to assume 
somebody else ﬁ  gures out how it functions.
Whew. I work out the kinks in my wrists and stare hap-
pily at the 20 lines of code in my text editor.
The opposite approach is to spit out jargon. I start by tell-
ing the computer about the car’s turning radius, top speed and the battery the electric engine runs on. This gets ugly fast — I spend hours on one feature and have trouble connecting concepts.
By abstracting away what driving is, I can tell the car to 
drive, and although it won’t do anything because I haven’t yet deﬁ  ned the verb “to drive,” I’ve made my code organized and easy to understand. 
A programmer can focus on the abstract top layer, ﬁ  lling in details slowly and describing the inside of the electric engine after time has passed.
This is eerily similar to the style advocated 
by science writer George Johnson. In “A Field 
Guide for Science Writers,” an advice anthology 
for communicators on the science beat, Johnson points out, “Most people look at a whole TV as one big black box that takes signals from the air and magically turns them into sound and pic-
tures. Any device, no matter how complex, can be under-stood on many different levels of abstraction.”
Getting back to weight, I’d begin with a high-level expla-
nation. We can see it, so this object must be made of some ma-
terial. This material is made up of Lego pieces called atoms.
The unit of measurement called the gram is a standard 
way of capturing the total mass of these atoms — the amount 
they resist being moved. It is intrinsic to a solid object and never disappears, while weight depends on its location.
If the speaker were sick of rehashing Physics I, I’d stop 
here.
If they were curious, I’d motivate the problem with ex-
amples. On the moon, the gravitational acceleration near the 
surface — the amount speed and its direction change over 
time — is about 1.6 m/s
2, so according to my calculator, the 
object would weigh 8 times 1.6, which is .003 pounds. While on Earth, where the gravitational acceleration is much high-
er, it weighs .018 pounds — 16 times more.
Selling myself becomes easier with abstraction. Answer-
ing questions like “What’s your major?” from students, 
“What do you study?” from friends and family and “What 
do you do?” from interviewers at the career fair is always 
annoying. I have no clue what my grandmother thinks I do for a living.
This week leading up to UF’s Career Showcase, students 
should practice pitching their research, jobs and studies at 
the mountain-level view, artfully revealing forests and rivers 
until the recipient starts squirming. If a recruiter doesn’t have the specialized background, they’ll appreciate the stop signs.
Andrew Silver is a UF mathematics junior. His column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.Abstraction: Explaining science over coffeeColumn
As one of many students with a busy, 
overscheduled life, I often tell my-self, “Just get through this week or 
this month, and then you’ll have time to worry about everything else.” When that is how you balance everything, the days and the months are slow but the years ﬂ  y by.
I can’t believe I’m 
almost done. One day, you’re just a freshman planning for someday, and then all of a sudden someday is today and you’re graduating. Then, just as quickly, someday is yesterday and has passed you by.
“Transitions always come with doubts 
and concerns, but this one seems to be espe-cially difﬁ  cult,” said Yael Kent, a psychology 
and global studies student at the University 
of California, Santa Barbara. “All your life, 
you are told to do well in school, to go to a good college and be successful. But once you’ve graduated from college, what do you 
do next? How do you become successful?”
The thought of “someday” being now ter-
riﬁ  es me. I’m accidently ahead of schedule 
because I came to K-State with college credit hours I took while I was still in high school. 
I only took college credits in high school be-
cause it was cheaper, not because I wanted 
to graduate early.
I’m not good with change. While graduation means a lot of wonder-
ful, exciting things, it also requires a lot of difﬁ  cult decisions, including saying hard goodbye to longtime friends, moving away from family and making major ﬁ  nancial de-cisions.
“It’s a major life transition, and often 
people have postponed other … life events like marriage until after they graduate from college,” said psychologist Andy Hogg. “So frequently graduation is about a job search, change in relationships, change in residence, everything changes.”
Here I am in my third year of college and 
classiﬁ  ed academically as a senior. My ad-viser told me that I would be ready to gradu-ate next semester, ﬁ  nished in only three and a half years. 
No, thank you.I’m not prepared to graduate yet. I don’t 
have a life plan, a job or even a general idea of how to be an adult. I’m good at being a student, and school has always come easy to me.
The Institute for College Access and Suc-
cess found that 69 percent of graduating se-niors left school with more than $28,000 in student loan debt in 2013. This is an increase of 2 percent from 2012, according to U.S. News & World Report.
I guess it’s the thought of leaving and ev-
erything that comes after that scares me. I say goodbye to friends who are graduating every year, and it never gets easier. They all seem to have it together. 
Maybe someday I’ll feel ready. Maybe 
someday I’ll be the one who looks like I have it all together. 
But “someday” is coming sooner than ex-
pected.
Courtney Burke writes for the Kansas State 
Collegian. A version of this story originally ap-peared on UWire.When someday 
becomes today: Change is scaryUWire
Andrew Silver
opinions@alligator.org
Courtney 
Burke
UWire8, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Before the Fall
Alan Alvarez, a 19-year-old UF psychology freshman, reads the insults and epithets written on the bricks 
of the “Writing on the Wall” project. On Friday, the wall will be toppled. “I think it’s a good cause,” Alvarez said. “It grabs your attention when you see it.”
 THEY DISCUSSED CURRENT EVENTS.
MARSHA JOSEPH
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 100 students, 
adults and children gathered 
for a round-table discussion to provide context about the cur-rent issues in France.
The Center for European 
Studies, the Center for Jew-ish Studies and the Center for Global Islamic Studies hosted “Muslims, Jews and the Media in France” on Tuesday night in Smathers Library to discuss not only the recent Charlie Hebdo magazine attacks but to 
also give in-depth perspectives 
about French society.
Looking at historical con-
text, Gayle Zachmann, one of the formal speakers and an as-sociate French professor at UF, said the recent acts in France do not surprise her.
“While most of the world 
stood stunned … these events are neither new nor entirely un-expected,” Zachmann said.
Abdoulaye Kane, another 
speaker and associate profes-sor of anthropology at UF said the situation in France exposed friction between the Muslim minority and the majority of 
people in France, but there is 
more to the problem. He said the world thinks otherwise.
“It’s not all about violence,” 
Kane said. “There are a lot of positive things.”
One of the audience mem-
bers, international studies and French junior Alejandro Vela, was in France one week before the shooting.
“It was interesting to hear 
their opinions and perspec-tives,” Vela, 20, said. “But I don’t think that it can bring 
closure to something like what 
happened.”UF organizations host 
French politics talk
 IT OPENED THIS YEAR.
MICHELLE MCNALLY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Between classes, business students can 
discover more about themselves.
Inside Heavener Hall is an alcove called 
the Discovery Cube, which hosts Career-
Maze, a 5-minute self-assessment, accord-
ing to a UF adviser. 
The Discovery Cube is an option for 
students who don’t have a clear career 
path, said Melissa Forgione, an academic adviser and career coach at the Heavener School of Business.
CareerMaze, the touch-screen assess-
ment, asks two questions: how one would describe oneself using the adjectives pro-
vided and how one thinks co-workers 
would respond with the same adjectives. 
The goal of the assessment is to get a 
profile of the student’s personality and help students better understand them-selves, Forgione said. 
“Based on the results, it tells you the 
types of environments you usually prefer, ideally prefer, types of environments you may not prefer, and it does it by looking at four different continuums,” Forgione said. 
The results will provide a personal-
ity style and a description, Forgione said, 
which can raise a student’s self-awareness 
to confidently choose a suitable career.
Forgione said she thought UF is either 
the first or one of the first universities to use this program. 
Students will not immediately get the 
results after finishing the assessment. They will have to make an advising appoint-ment, where a staff member will go into 
detail, Forgione said. 
Brian Ray, associate dean and director 
of the Heavener School of Business, said 
the assessment’s data will act as a conver-sation starter.
“The idea is the assessment is a way 
to either validate what the student thinks he or she is interested in or to open their eyes to some things they haven’t really 
contemplated previously,” Ray said. “I tell 
students the two questions to ask yourself in college are, ‘What am I good at?’ and ‘What do I enjoy?’”Discovery Cube in Heavener 
Hall hosts career assessmentAMAURY SABLON
Alligator Contributing Writer
Six days after graduating from 
UF in 2012, Mercedes Young es-
caped the Swamp and headed to Los Angeles.
Now the former Gator will ap-
pear as a contestant in the upcom-ing reality TV show, “Match Made in Heaven,” premiering Feb. 4 at 8 p.m. on WE tv, a channel owned by AMC Networks.The show is about 24 women 
vying for the love and affection of a male millionaire. 
“It’s kind of like ‘The Bachelor,’ 
but it’s the first time any African-American male has been a bach-
elor,” Young, 23, said.
Originally from South Florida, 
Young graduated from UF with a 
telecommunication degree and the-atre minor. 
During her senior year, she 
filmed and starred in her first mov-ie, “2 Headed Shark Attack,” where she worked with high-profile ce-lebrities like Carmen Electra and Brooke Hogan.
Young also had lead roles in 
“Tosh.0,” “Deadly Sins,” “Cry 
Wolfe” and “Outrageous 911,” as 
well as minor roles in about a dozen other projects.
When she’s not on set, she’s 
working on her business — WeS-hair.com — a website that compiles a list of barbers and hairstylists based off location and highlights rat-ings, reviews and pictures.
“It’s the social media for all 
things hair,” she said.  
She said she was inspired by her 
grandmother, who owned a hair sa-
lon before passing away from breast 
cancer. She hopes to donate wigs to cancer patients in the future. 
For now, Young spends most of 
her time working in Hollywood. She said she owes her current success in the tough industry to perseverance.“One out of three people succeed 
in Hollywood, and it’s not because that person was more talented, but because the other two gave up,” she said.
Damario Major, a 2012 UF the-
atre alumnus and friend of Young’s, said he believes she gives students a sense of optimism.
“Seeing her success gives me 
hope,” said Major, 22, “and it shows that it is possible to attain with hard work and dedication to your craft.”
UF alumna to appear on WE tv’s ‘Match Made in Heaven’
EMILY COCHRANE 
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
A Gainesville man was admitted to the 
hospital under the Baker Act on Monday night after he reportedly fought with a police officer.
According to a Gainesville Police report, 
Reshaud Lee Ford, 29, was found walking around after his mother told police he was not on his mental health medication and threatened to kill her.
Ford ran from police but soon turned 
around and ran toward an officer in a box-ing stance, according to the report. Ford then punched the officer in the face. The two men continued to hit each other repeatedly, even-
tually slamming into the side of the patrol 
car. The officer tripped Ford and the two fell to the ground, hitting their heads on the concrete. Ford continued to fight the officer until another one arrived and used his Taser on Ford. He was then handcuffed and taken to UF Health Shands just after 6 p.m. with an 8-inch cut on his head.
Gainesville Police spokesman Officer Ben 
Tobias said any time an officer approaches a 
mentally ill person, the goal is to use as little 
force as possible.
“There’s no blanket way to handle this. 
Each case is going to be different because each person is different,” Tobias said. “Of-ficers will use the least amount of force pos-sible, but mentally impaired people will sometimes have superhuman strength. They don’t feel a lot of the consequences that other 
people will feel.”
A physician at Shands invoked the Baker 
Act on Ford, which allows for involuntary 
health treatment if a person appears to be mentally ill or a danger to themselves or oth-ers. While police can invoke the Baker Act, Tobias said officers generally leave the deci-sion to doctors.
As of Tuesday, Ford remained in the Bak-
er Act facility. He will be charged with bat-tery on a law enforcement officer through a sworn complaint, according to police.Police: Man fights with officer, 
committed under Baker Act HIS LAWYERS SAY HE WAS 
MENTALLY ILL.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ATLANTA — Georgia on 
Tuesday executed a man who 
killed a fellow inmate despite 
arguments from his lawyers that 
his execution was prohibited by 
the Constitution because he was 
intellectually disabled.
Warren Lee Hill was put to 
death by an injection of Pentobar-
bital at the state prison in Jack-
son. The 54-year-old man was pronounced dead at 7:55 p.m. 
“Today, the Court has uncon-
scionably allowed a grotesque miscarriage of justice to occur in Georgia,” Brian Kammer, a law-yer for Hill, said in an emailed statement. “Georgia has been al-
lowed to execute an unquestion-
ably intellectually disabled man, Warren Hill, in direct contraven-tion of the Court’s clear prec-
edent prohibiting such cruelty.”
Hill was sentenced to serve 
life in prison for the 1986 killing 
of his 18-year-old girlfriend, who was shot 11 times. While serving 
that sentence, he beat a fellow in-
mate, Joseph Handspike, to death using a nail-studded board. In 1991 Hill was convicted of mur-
der and sentenced to death.
Hill was previously set to die 
in July 2012, February 2013 and July 2013, but courts stepped in 
at the last minute with temporary stays so they would have time to consider challenges filed by Hill’s lawyers. 
State and federal courts reject-
ed his lawyers’ filings this time around, and the U.S. Supreme Court declined his request for a stay of execution at about 6:30 p.m. Tuesday.
Lawyers for Hill have long ar-
gued he is intellectually disabled and therefore shouldn’t be ex-ecuted. State law and a 2002 U.S. Supreme Court decision both prohibit the execution of the in-tellectually disabled.
But Georgia has the tough-
est standard in the nation for proving intellectual disability. It requires capital defendants to prove beyond a reasonable doubt 
that they are intellectually dis-
abled in order to avoid execu-tion on those grounds. The state has consistently said Hill’s law-yers failed to meet the burden of proof.
Hill’s lawyers have argued 
that Georgia’s standard is un-constitutional because mental diagnoses are subject to a degree of uncertainty that is virtually 
impossible to overcome, but the 
standard has repeatedly been up-held by state and federal courts.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
CAROLINE ROBBINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Twelve orphans were given 
the tools to emerge as leaders 
on a trip to UF.
For the first time in eight 
years, the UF Young Leaders 
Conference awarded scholar-
ships to less fortunate high school students who wouldn’t normally have the opportunity to attend college.
From Friday to Sunday, 
12 Miami-Dade County high school students joined the group of 184 attendees and 
engaged in leadership work-
shops. 
Julia DiCesare, director of 
external communications, said the program’s executive board noticed the less fortunate at-tendees in the past actually benefitted the most.
“Those students just stood 
out a lot, so we wanted to give the opportunity for kids who couldn’t financially afford to come to Young Leaders Con-ference to be able to come,” the 21-year-old UF marketing and 
psychology senior said.
Before the executive board 
was able to reach out to high 
school counselors, DiCesare said she received a call from a woman running Miami-Dade’s foster homes who asked to send students to the conference.
It costs $240 for one student 
to attend YLC. DiCesare said the board created 16 scholar-ships — 12 for students to at-
tend the conference and four 
for future college funds — that were awarded at the closing ceremony. The money was raised through donations by both local and hometown busi-nesses and their families.
Timmus Drayton, one of 
the scholarship recipients from Homestead High School, said his favorite part was having time to reflect and talk during the workshops.
“They taught you their per-
sonalities, their characteristics, and they just taught you how they feel about certain things,” 
the 16-year-old said. “It was a 
really enjoyable process.”
YLC welcomes students 
from different backgrounds, schools and upbringings to give them a chance to deter-mine what kind of leader they want to be, said Austin Suther-land, the program’s executive 
director.
“We impress upon them all 
the stuff we have gone through, 
and hopefully in turn they can 
take what they learn at YLC 
and bring it back to their com-munities,” the 21-year-old fi-nance senior said.
To students like Drayton, 
YLC was not just a conference.  
“I come from a school that’s 
really not good,” he said. “Peo-ple really don’t care, and (YLC) 
showed me that people can 
care, and there are good things in life.”UF group awards
scholarships to Fla. high schoolers 
AP Photo
Jessi Stitt protests against the execution of Warren Lee Hill on Tues-
day on the steps of the State Capitol in Atlanta. The Supreme Court refused to halt the execution.
Ga. man executed despite challenge
“I come from a school 
that’s really not good. 
People really don’t care, 
and (YLC) showed me 
that people can care, 
and there are good 
things in life.”
Timmus Drayton
scholarship recipientWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 furnished BR in condo 1 mi S of UF & on 
bus route, w/ own BA & walk-in closet, laun -
dry, sim wood flooring, pool, basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, internet, etc. 352-
262-3291    1-30-14-44-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-30-14-29-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
2nd level 2BR, WD inc. quiet n'hood, trees, park-like setting, great view, tile floors, cats ok, great for grads, writers, anyone need -
ing calm, quiet living. 1830 NW 10th Street. (352) 284 3873. $650.    1-28-15-15-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-23BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
2BR/1.5BA townhouse available in Tower Village. rent($600) Interested call 3522245011 or 3526822667.    1-30-15-9-2
3BR. partially furnished. Right for man and wife on fixed income. No pets. In Old Town, FL 901-517-6202    1-28-5-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can 
deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more 
information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
SWIMMING POOL SERVICE ACCOUNTS, Lake City, FL. Asking $16,000 = 8 months grosse @ 10 hours work per week. Year-round accounts. Must sell, I have too much work. 386-590-3561    1-28-15-5-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $99995 Toyota Camry $125088 Honda Civic $125095 Pontiac Bonneville $1300352-338-1999                      4-22-71-1202 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-6-14-73-13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
12, ALLIGATOR § WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & 
Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-
$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at 
gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. 
Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
DATA ENTRY/CLERICAL POSITION
Full or part time at new facility. Please apply in person. Institute of Veterinary Spec. 5609 SW 64th St.    1-28-15-14DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
FULL/PART TIME OPENINGS
Web Designer
Accounting AssistantsLinux AdministratorsSoftware testersAdministrative AssistantsSoftware DevelopersCustomer ServicesSales ConsultantsAccounting EditorsAviation EditorsContent CoordinatorCPA/EA Product ManagerWord ProcessorWeb DeveloperMarketing CoordinatorVideo TechGardenerLine of white -
Please apply at www.gleim.com/employment
1-29-15-10-14
Fraternity Management Assistant.Work with Accounts Payable/Receivable, Handle Invoices, Attend Weekly Fraternity Meetings, etc. Must be dependable, knowl -
edgeable, and focused. Min of 10-15 hours a week. Email Resume to info@fratmgmt.com    1-28-15-6-14
Experienced breakfast cook sought by Pearl Country Store & BBQ in Micanopy. Apply in person.     1-28-15-5-14
Part Time Job at CITT on campus help with online courses 20 hrs/wk, $10/hr, flex schedule basic knowledge of: Windows, MS Office and Photoshop Will be assisting Faculty Please drop your resume at 2215 Turlington Hall    1-28-15-5-14
Preschool Teacher Aide need for a Christian 
preschool afternoon shift Monday -Friday. 
DCF 45 hours and experience required. 
Please call 352-373-2901
2-2-15-7-14
ITC Defense seeking reliable student for 10 hrs/wk @ $8.05/hr. Great resume build -
er doing government contract research & social media strategy. Send resumes to: ITCStudent@ITCDefense.com    1-30-15-6-14
Tutor needed for Algebra II
dual enrolled high school student. Female preferred,   $15/hr. Please email tboland97@gmail.com 2-2-4-14 
Interns wanted for marketing/sales/strategy positions with 4 year old web-based market-ing company specializing in solving health record and insurance requirement integra -
tion. Currently utilized by 1000's of docs. Could lead to paid position after assessment. Send resume and letter of interest to info@dmeevaluamate.com. 1-30-15-3-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm 
tech? Express Training offers courses, days, 
eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 
352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart 
Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Write an essay on happiness.Win $500. No entry fee.humanhappinessfoundation.org(A Nonprofit Organization)    1-28-15-5-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
UF diver earns SEC honor
Senior Khalia Warner was named the Southeastern 
Conference’s Female Diver of the Week, the conference announced on Tuesday.Florida football spring game date announced
The Orange & Blue Debut — Florida football’s annual spring game — will take place on April 11, UF announced on Tuesday.Alex McMurtry is fighting through stress fractures in her back to compete for UF gymnastics. Read 
the story on Page 16. HIS SLAM WITH 21 SECONDS LEFT SECURED FLORIDA’S 52-50 WIN AGAINST ALABAMA.
ERICA A. HERNANDEZ 
Alligator Staff Writer @EricaAlyssa
Dorian Finney-Smith may have scored just one basket 
Tuesday night against Alabama, but it was the one that count-
ed.
With just 21 seconds left in regulation and the game tied at 
50, the redshirt junior forward slammed home what may have 
been the most crucial dunk of his career to give the Gators a 
52-50 win over the Crimson Tide on Tuesday in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. 
Florida (11-9, 4-3 Southeastern Conference) came into 
Tuesday’s matchup on a three-game losing streak but halted the slide at Coleman Coliseum in UF’s lowest scoring game of the season.
Finney-Smith followed up the clutch play with a game-
sealing block and rebound to give UF its first win since Jan. 15. 
Florida’s defense came out strong from the start on Tues-
day, forcing Alabama  (13-7, 3-4 SEC) to turn the ball over 12 times in the first 20 minutes of regulation. 
The Gators capitalized on its defensive success, entering 
halftime with a 35-22 advantage.
But Florida double-digit lead was almost thwarted when 
Florida became plagued with turnovers. Within the first five minutes of the second half, the Gators had committed more turnovers (five) than points scored (two).
Eli Carter scored a team-high 13 points against Alabama 
but had to battle through blood in the second half. 
An elbow to the face from Finney-Smith sidelined Carter 
as blood gushed out of his nose and through the towel he clutched to his face. 
The Gators held a slight lead over Alabama when Carter 
exited, but the Crimson Tide came roaring back. At the 10:09 mark when the junior guard subbed out, the Gators were still leading by three points.
Less than three minutes later, the Crimson Tide had tied 
the game at 41 for the first time in the game.
But that didn’t last long — 31 seconds to be exact — before 
Florida was back on top.
Alabama quickly tied things up again when Crimson Tide 
junior Ricky Tarrant nailed a three-pointer less than a minute removed from exiting with an apparent right foot injury. 
The next one and a half minutes that followed was the lon-
gest period of the game with the two teams knotted up at 50. 
But Finney-Smith’s heroics secured Florida its first win in 
more than a week. 
 SHE RECORDED UF’S FIRST POST -
SEASON NO-HITTER.
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
Delanie Gourley was an anomaly enter-
ing her freshman season on the UF softball 
team.
She was the first left-handed pitcher coach Tim Walton ever signed out of high school. 
And when she entered the pitcher’s cir-
cle for the Gators, she simply dominated.
In 27 appearances 
last season as the No. 
2 pitcher, Gourley compiled a 15-1 record 
with nine complete games and five shutouts. 
She also added 127 strikeouts, becoming the third Florida freshman in the last four 
years to strike out at least 100 batters. 
The other two pitchers were Hannah 
Rogers and Lauren Haeger.
Walton knew exactly what he was getting 
when he started scouting Gourley at Lake-side (California) El Capitan High School.
“As you recruit a kid as dynamic as Dela-
nie, although she’s only 5-foot-4, her pedi-Gourley has room to grow in sophomore yearBASEBALL
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
The Florida baseball team was sat-
isfied with how the story of its 2014 season played out.
But the Gators probably wish the 
ending was written differently.
After winning the Southeastern 
Conference regular-season title after going 21-9 in conference play and it looking like the season would have 
a fairy-tale ending, the story turned 
dark when it mattered the most.
Florida lost 2-0 to LSU in the 
SEC Tournament Championship, re-cording just two hits in the finale in 
Hoover, Alabama.
The Gators then earned the No. 2 
seed in the NCAA Tournament only 
to go two-and-out for the second-straight year, losing 3-2 to College of 
Charleston and 5-2 to North Carolina 
at McKethan Stadium in two rain-heavy contests. 
“It was a rough two games,” ju-
nior Harrison Bader said. “But at the end of the day if you want to make it that far, if you want to compete with the best, you have to be not necessar-
ily perfect, but pretty close to it.”
This year, the No. 6 Gators hope 
their season will have the happily-
ever-after ending that has eluded them for the past two years.
“My biggest focus, really my only 
focus, this year is just making it to the World Series,” Bader said. “It’s my third year. I’ve heard incred-
ible things about it from the coaches 
and players around the league and friends. So that’s what I’m focused on, that’s my goal.”
Florida has not reached the Col-
lege World Series since 2012.
But the Gators have not won a 
game there since 2011, when Florida 
swept through its first three games 
before being swept itself against 
South Carolina in the championship 
series.
The Gators want to get back to UF focused 
on returning to College 
World Series 
this season 
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 15UF Sof tballJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith dunks during Florida’s win against Mississippi State 
on Jan. 10 in the O’Connell Center. Finney-Smith sealed Florida’s 52-50 win against Alabama on Tuesday by dunking with 21 seconds left in regulation. 
Doe-Doe delivers 
dunk to seal UF win14, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
 THE ARGENTINE FINISHED IN 
SECOND AT THE LATIN AMERICA AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIPS.
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
There’s a new face hanging around the 
Florida men’s golf team.
That face is of freshman Alejandro 
Tosti, who joined the team 
in January once the spring semester started.
The Argentine came 
into the program as one of the best players from his country. And it didn’t take him long to make an impression on coach J.C. Deacon.    
“He’s one of the best players that I’ve 
ever seen at this age,” Deacon said. “He’s 18 years old and he is a stud. There’s no question about it…he’s a phenomenal tal-ent, I can’t wait to watch (him).”
After being on the UF team for less 
than two weeks, Tosti had the chance to compete in the Latin America Amateur Championships in Buenos Aires with a spot to play in The Masters Tournament 
on the line. 
Tosti finished in second place in the 
tournament with a score of 10-under-par, 
one shot behind Chile’s Matias Domin-
guez. Deacon said the second place finish 
hurt Tosti a little, but Deacon knows what his golf game brings to the team.
“He’s got it all,” Deacon said. “He hits 
it long, he controls his trajectory and spin. 
He’s got a great short game, he’s a good 
putter and he’s a hard-nosed competitor.
“He brings it every day, he wants to 
win, he wants to beat you and that’s what 
really this team needed the most.”
Tosti wouldn’t be the first freshman to 
make an impact on the team in Deacon’s 
first year as coach. 
Freshman Ryan Celano was able to 
contribute to the team right away and it showed in his performances in the fall. Celano won the qualifying leading up to the second tournament in the fall and 
he parlayed that performance in a tie for 
sixth place at the Wolf Run Intercollegiate.
In the qualifying rounds leading up to 
the Sea Best Invitational, Tosti and Celano went to a playoff to decide who would 
win the qualifying. Celano ultimately beat 
Tosti by one stroke to secure the No. 1 spot heading into the first tournament of the spring.
With two talented freshmen on the ros-
ter in Tosti and Celano, Deacon feels that the program has the chance to really grow while they are at Florida.    
“Florida golf is looking pretty bright 
in the hands of those two guys,” Dea-con said. “The future looks really good, they’re both 18 years old, they both have a ton of room to grow, but at this point 
they’re competitive on a national basis.”    Alejandro 
Tosti making 
quick impact 
UF GolfBASEBALL
IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer @icohenb
Before he returned to Flori-
da for the start of spring prac-
tice, shortstop Richie Martin did some light reading.
One book he read was “The 
Inner Game of Tennis,” a book whose first chapter starts off like this: “It’s not that I don’t know what to do, it’s that I don’t do what I know.”
After an inconsistent soph-
omore campaign in which Martin finished with a .265 batting average — down from hitting .300 his freshman year — Martin decided to get away from the game.
“Sometimes you can think 
about things too much,” Mar-tin said. “So I actually read a few books, talked to some people about things and it gave me a new insight on just playing the game and a differ-ent perspective about things.”
The books Martin read all 
focused on the importance of playing with a relaxed mind and learning how to tame your thought process during a game.
To Martin, none was more 
helpful than “The Inner Game of Tennis.”
“I’m telling you, that thing 
was a game changer for me,” he said.
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
has noticed the difference.
“I have seen some growth, 
maturity wise,” O’Sullivan said of Martin. “But he’s al-ways been a great player, a re-ally hard worker.”
Aside from his commit-
ment to improve on the men-tal aspect of the game, Martin gained 10 pounds over the fall and said he feels stronger.
He competed for the 
Bourne Braves of the Cape Cod Baseball League over the summer and finished second in the league with a .364 bat-
ting average, and first with 59 
hits and 36 runs. 
Martin also compiled 20 
RBIs and 17 stolen bases in 43 
games with the Braves.
“I think the biggest thing in baseball is how you deal with failure,” UF and Cape League teammate Harrison Bader said. “…Richie, obvi-
ously coming off the summer 
he had, I’m sure he prepared a tremendous amount to per-form at that level, and he’s 
done that day in and day out.”
With the first game of the 
season in just over two weeks, 
Martin will try to carry his success from the summer over 
into the spring.O’Sullivan said he feels 
comfortable placing Martin in the leadoff spot or anywhere 
in the top three, and that the 
junior’s play will be para-mount to UF’s success this 
season.
“He’s had a great summer 
in the Cape Cod League, he 
had a great fall, and he’s off 
to a great start this spring,” 
O’Sullivan said. 
“So obviously for us to get 
to where we need to get to, he 
needs to have a great spring, 
and I fully expect him to do 
that.” 
Richie Martin improving mental play
Alligator File Photo
After an inconsistent sophomore year, Richie Martin took time to improve the mental as-
pect of his game. This included reading books such as “The Inner Game of Tennis,” which Martin said has been a game changer for him.
CAYLEE UNDERWOOD
Alligator Writer @CayUnderwood
They say the first cut is the deepest. 
But in this case, it was the first loss 
that hit the hardest.
When No. 13 Florida fell 4-3 to No. 
31 Ole Miss on the first day of the ITA Kick Off Weekend, the Gators used the loss as motivation to improve on their 
weak spots.
“It’s kind of a bitter lesson to learn 
early in the season but better to learn 
at the early part of the season rather than later,” coach Bryan Shelton said. 
“Three of those (singles) matches kind 
of slipped away. ... In sports we’ve got to finish, just like in life. And our guys struggled to finish that day.”
The Gators refused to hang their 
heads low and let the losing streak con-tinue.
After the loss, Florida showed No. 
30 Stanford on Day 2 of the tournament 
just whose court they were standing on.“I’m really proud that we found a 
way to find a win when our backs were against the wall,” Shelton said about his 
team after losing the doubles point to Stanford on Sunday.
“I think we were down in four of the 
six singles matches and for our guys to show true resolve and come back from that and find a way to win was a real 
testament to their character,” Shelton 
said.
The third-year head coach will be the 
first to agree that his team is far from perfect. 
Considering the team’s youth, Shel-
ton was impressed to see the Gators fight back from a tough position despite losing its first doubles point of the sea-son.  
“As a coach that’s what you want to 
see,” Shelton said. 
“You know you’re going to get 
knocked down, you know you’re going to face adversity but being able to get back up on your feet and take responsi-
bility for the things you did wrong and 
then trust in the training, trust in the coaches, trust that you can get back out there the following day and get the job 
done was great to see.”
Florida hopes to apply that attitude 
to its matchup on Saturday against No. 
1 Southern California in Athens, Geor-gia, and again on Sunday when they 
face No. 4 UCLA.
“Those are two programs that do it 
right, they have great coaching, great 
athletes, they play a style that I like, 
they play all court tennis, they attack,” 
Shelton said. 
“So, for our guys, what a great op-
portunity for them to see what the best teams look like.”UF men’s tennis learning from first loss
“For our guys to show true 
resolve and come back from that 
and find a way to win was a real 
testament to their character.”
Bryan Shelton
UF men’s tennis coachReading has helped him relaxgree has been strong,” Walton 
said. 
“She’s been groomed to be a 
staff ace. She’s got great pitches, 
great out pitches.”
Gourley also became the first 
Florida softball pitcher to throw a 
no-hitter in the postseason when 
she blanked Florida A&M on May 
16. 
She also averaged 8.26 strike-
outs per seven innings, which 
ranks fourth all-time for a single 
season in UF history.
While Gourley achieved sev-
eral accolades during her fresh-man season, there were some 
struggles. 
In Southeastern Conference 
play, Gourley had a 5.03 ERA in 
10 appearances with eight of those 
being starts.
“I think we probably put and 
she put a little bit too much pres-
sure on herself last year that she 
had to prove that she was going 
to be an ace, or that she was going to be a dominant pitcher at this level,” Walton said.
For Gourley to take the next 
step in her development, Walton said she’s going to need to pitch to all sides of the plate to consis-tently compete at an elite level. 
While she does change speeds 
very well at the moment, for 
Gourley to become the dominant 
ace she wants to be, she’ll have to add even more to her repertoire. 
All of that comes with the hard 
work she’s put in this offseason 
with the coaches.    
Gourley did end her fresh-
man campaign on a high note as 
she pitched two shutout innings 
against the Alabama Crimson 
Tide in the Women’s College World Series finale.  
The two innings were good 
enough to earn the win that 
clinched the first national title in 
Florida softball history.
Walton and the rest of the 
coaching staff will look to build 
on that season-ending victory as 
Gourley enters her sophomore season as the expected No. 2 pitcher behind Haeger.   
“When you watch her pitch, 
even at the College World Series, you see her pitch last year in the championship and her smile, and 
her charisma, and her presence 
was just unbelievable,” Walton said. 
“We’re just trying gain mo-
mentum on that and really try to 
give her the confidence that we 
have in her as we always have.” WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Gourley averaged 8.26 strikeouts per seven innings in first season
SOFTBALL , from page 13Bader, UF want a happily-ever-after ending
that level.
“I think we have expectations every 
year,” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “Every year, we kind of get together and expect to be pretty good. I think this group’s mature enough to handle it.”
O’Sullivan returns what can be con-
sidered one of his deepest rosters in his eight-year tenure.
The Gators have a pitching staff that is 17-players deep, including sev-en left-handed pitchers.
Headlining the staff is sophomore 
Logan Shore. The Coon Rapids, Min-nesota, native finished last season with a team-low 2.16 ERA and landed on the All-SEC first team, All-Ameri-ca third team and All-America fresh-
man team while also being named the 
SEC Freshman of the Year and Perfect Game National Freshman of the Year.
The Gators also return three of their 
five players who had an on-base per-centage of at least .350.
Bader, who led UF with a .337 bat-
ting average and had a career-high 24 
RBIs in 2014, knows the expectations 
are high.
And he’s ready to make sure Flori-
da’s season has a happy ending.
“Obviously, coming off a really 
good year last year, so for ourselves, our coaching staff and even our fans, we’re expected to do the same exact thing,” Bader said. “We certainly have the talent to do so.”
BASEBALL , from page 13
Alligator File Photo
After going two-and-out in the NCAA Tournament the last two years, Harrison Bader and the Florida baseball team are 
striving to reach the College World Series this season. Florida’s first game is against Rhode Island on Feb. 13.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Pitcher Delanie Gourley (33) high-fives teammate Taylor Schwarz prior to Florida’s 7-6 win against Auburn on April 5 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
 THE GATORS HAVE A 51-1 ALL-TIME RECORD AGAINST THE BULLS.
STAFF REPORT
The No. 2 Florida women’s tennis team 
faces No. 53 South Florida at 3 p.m. at the 
Ring Tennis Complex.
The Gators (2-0) are 51-1 all-time against 
the Bulls (1-2), including a perfect 30-0 record when UF is playing on its home courts.
The last time UF and USF faced off, the 
Gators took home a 7-0 victory on Jan. 29, 2013. Florida won five of its six singles matches in straight sets.
The Gators, who have won 136 consecu-
tive home matches, are coming off back-to-
back wins in the ITA Kick Off Weekend. Flor-
ida swept both Elon and Maryland to clinch a spot in the ITA National Indoor Champion-ships in Charlottesville, Virginia, from Feb. 
6-9.
Florida picked to win SEC: Florida was 
selected as the preseason favorite to win the 
Southeastern Conference in a poll by the SEC’s coaches, the league announced Friday.
The Gators are coming off a season in 
which they went 23-6 overall and 11-2 in the SEC en route to making their 24th appear-
ance in the NCAA Semifinals in 28 years.Florida hosts 
South Florida 
todayWOMEN’S TENNISGRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Many gymnasts likely wish they had 
half the talent of Alex McMurtry.
But McMurtry just wishes she could get 
half their practice time.
Through three meets of the 2015 sea-
son, the freshman has already established 
herself as the future of the UF gymnastics program. She scored a perfect 10 in just her second vault as a Gator against Auburn, responded with a 9.925 bars routine in the very next rotation and came back the next week to score a 9.950 on vault against Ala-bama in a week when many Gators strug-gled.
McMurtry has scored 
no worse than a 9.825 in the three events she has competed in this season 
— vault, bars and beam — and she has competed in all three the last two weeks.
But what most do not 
know is the 18-year-old 
has done it all while training only about 25 percent as much as her teammates.
McMurtry has three separate stress frac-
tures in her back that she has been dealing with since her sophomore year in high school, and the pain dictates how much she can do each day in training.
“It kinda depends,” she said. “Me and 
my trainer talk about it every day. Every day I walk in she says ‘How is it today?’ and I’ll say ‘It’s a good day, it’s a medium day, it’s an OK day,’ so sometimes it doesn’t matter what I do the day before or that day, it’s just I wake up and I’m in pain.”
The injury has created a delicate situa-
tion for coach Rhonda Faehn, who is faced 
with the daily challenge of keeping Mc-
Murtry fresh and healthy while still push-ing her to continually elevate her skills.
“I have to be very careful with her,” 
Faehn said. “She is so good and so talented and has so much potential. I just have to be careful because right now she just can’t do the numbers, so it’s a ﬁ  ne line.”
The good thing for Faehn is McMurtry’s 
talent level is overwhelming to the point that the lack of training hasn’t affected her Friday night performances. 
Even as a college freshman who by 
age should be a high school senior — she graduated from high school a year early — McMurtry displays the composure of a seasoned veteran.
“What I love about Alex is that she is a 
very, what I would say, intelligent gymnast because she knows what her body is do-ing,” Faehn said. “She knows upside down 
‘OK, I’m a little bit off and I need to make 
this correction.’ It’s not like she’s startled by anything, and that’s a really impressive trait to be able to have.
“There are some athletes who have to 
get that way by doing massive amounts of numbers, that’s what they have to do. And then there’s other athletes that can not do as many numbers and they know how 
to get where they need to get, and that’s 
Alex.”
Faehn hopes McMurtry will be able 
to compete on ﬂ  oor - the freshman’s best event from Faehn’s perspective - at some point this season, provided her back heals to the point where the pain would be toler-able.
“It’s hard to ﬁ  gure out if you want to 
tumble on ﬂ  oor and maybe risk it getting worse, or if you just wanna stick with the three events,” McMurtry said. 
“Floor was my favorite event, so I wan-
na be back on ﬂ  oor, I wanna be competing all-around. I love doing my own routine, like ﬂ  oor is that one that really sticks out.”
If she is able to compete on ﬂ  oor this sea-
son - even just half as well as she has been 
in her other events - the rest of the country 
has a full-blown problem on its hands.16, ALLIGATOR  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015
Local
tastesbetter.Localtastesbetter.
be smart.
eat local.
TRACK
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
Despite his men’s squad los-
ing its top spot in the USTFCCCA rankings, coach Mike Holloway said he was pleased with how the Gators men’s and women’s track 
and ﬁ  eld teams have performed 
across the board.
Both of the men’s and women’s 
4x400-meter relay teams won their events at the Rod McCravy Memo-rial Invitational in record-breaking fashion, setting both the NCAA and world record times for 2015.
While it may sound like Flor-
ida’s 4x4 teams are sitting atop Mount Olympus, Holloway is not all that surprised with their perfor-mances.
In fact, Holloway expects these types of feats from his program.
“We’re never surprised when 
we run fast in relay,” Holloway 
said.
“I don’t think there’s anybody 
that looks at what we do and (goes) 
‘Wow, I can’t believe Florida did that.’”
Distance runners Jimmy Clark, 
Taylor Tubbs and Mark Parrish all ﬁ  nished in the top-10 overall in their 3000-meter runs, with Clark 
and Tubbs setting personal records.
While they did not perform 
well enough to lock up spots in the 
NCAA Indoor Championships in March, Holloway knows that they are focused on the big picture.
“The goal for all three of them 
is to be at the national indoor meet this year, and I know they won’t rest until they get there,”
Senior hurdler Bridgette Ow-
ens — who was the season’s ﬁ  rst 
Southeastern Conference Women’s 
Runner of the Week — was slated to start the 60-meter hurdles in Lexington, Kentucky, but was scratched from the event because of a cramp that occurred during Wednesday’s practice.
The absence of Owens did not 
worry Holloway, nor did it hinder Florida from achieving success in the McCravy Invite.
Holloway made a long-term de-
cision in keeping the Gators’ star 
hurdler off the track in Lexington.
“We think she has the chance to 
be the NCAA champion later this 
year. We thought it was better to rest her and get ready for stuff later on,” Holloway said.
This Friday, the Gators will 
head to Fayetteville, Arkansas, to compete in the Razorback Invita-
tional.
It will be the ﬁ  rst of three indoor 
meets at the Randal Tyson Track 
Center that Florida will participate in this season, with the last being the NCAA Indoor Championships.
Fayetteville holds much histori-
cal signiﬁ  cance to Florida’s track and ﬁ  eld program, as it is the city where the men’s team won the 2010 NCAA Indoors — the ﬁ  rst of three consecutive indoor titles for 
the UF men. 
With this weekend’s meeting 
taking place at the Tyson Track 
Center, Holloway understands this can be an opportunity to learn about the environment in prepara-tion for the Indoor Championships.
“At the end of the day, we want 
to get there, get a feel for the track, 
get a feel for the runway,” Hollo-
way said.
“We want to make sure we get 
a feel of what kind of facility it is.”
The Gators will get one more 
chance to get used to the track fol-lowing the Razorback Invite, as they will participate in the Tyson Invitational on Feb 13-14.
Florida still has room to improve despite early season successEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry performs on uneven bars in Florida’s 197.20-195.65 win against 
Auburn on Jan. 16 in the O’Connell Center. 
Alex McMurtry producing for UF gymnastics despite back pain
The freshman competes in three rotations
Faehn
“At the end of the day, we 
want to get there, get a feel 
for the track, get a feel for 
the runway.”
Mike Holloway
UF track coach