We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 109 ISSUE 168 THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
UF football optimistic heading into 
Fall practice
UF holds ﬁ  rst practice today, pg 21.
Padron-Rasines has big plans for presidency
Goals include gender-neutral bathrooms, transportation safety, 
pg 17.
A ﬁ  nal goodbye to my Alligator family
Managing Print Editor Melissa Mihm’s column, pg 6.We’ll be back
The Alligator’s next publication is our New Student Edition on Aug. 17. We will resume daily publication on Aug. 24.
MISDEMEANOR MARIJUANA 
CASES ROSE 23 PERCENT FROM 
2013-2014.
By Graham Hall 
and Melissa Mihm
Alligator Staff Writers
ghall@alligator.org 
mmihm@alligator.org
Alachua County commissioners and 
county attorney Michele Lieberman are in 
the process of investigating whether the 
county can legally begin issuing civil cita-
tions for marijuana possession — a move similar to Miami-Dade County, which voted June 30 to allow police to issue $100 civil 
citations or give the option of community service for the possession of up to 20 grams of marijuana.
According to County Commissioner Rob-
ert Hutchinson, there is a way to stop mis-
demeanor marijuana arrests with the coop-
eration of multiple parties.
“There is this new 
route,” he said. “And what 
it requires is basically a formal agreement between 
the judiciary, the prosecu-
tors, chief law enforcement ofﬁ  cers like the sheriff and the county commission.”
The inquiry into the legality of the pro-
posal has been a longstanding issue be-tween the Alachua County Commission and the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce.      
In a July 2013 County Commission meet-
ing, Hutchinson stated his intention to erase arrests for small amounts of marijuana.
He announced he 
wanted the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce to stop arresting people for 
misdemeanor marijuana charges and planned to use the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce’s budget as an incentive.
The budget would be 
cut unless Hutchinson 
and the commission saw improvements — or a decrease in the amount of misdemean-or marijuana arrests. 
Hutchinson said this could lead to ofﬁ  -cers being at risk for losing promotions or raises if they continue to make arrests for a 
crime the commission felt was doing more 
harm than good.
Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell 
was against the suggestion. 
At the meeting, she said marijuana is il-
legal, and she can’t ignore the law or the complaints of residents who report drug ac-tivity.
She said the commission was overstep-
ping its authority, and the proposal ap-peared dead.
“I asked the sheriff if she would de-pri-
oritize these types of things, and she said 
no,” Hutchinson said. “So I said, ‘Tell you 
what, I’ll give you a year to think about it, County Commission, ACSO disagree over marijuana lawsSEE HOMELESS,  PAGE 8By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
Rebecca Pardini used to be 
homeless.
Now she works a part-time job 
at the super Wal-Mart on Waldo road, earning $9 an hour and working 40 hours a week.
It was the only place out of the 
dozen she applied to that would hire her when she had no address to put on her application.
“No one likes to hire a home-
less person,” Pardini said. Her 
light blond hair sat neatly across 
her shoulder in a braid, her sil-ver-framed glasses shielding her blue eyes.
Before she was homeless, she 
was adopted from Russia when she was 2 years old by her par-ents. She grew up in San Jose, California.
The now 22-year-old dreams 
of going to college and becoming a veterinarian.
“I just want to be able to go to 
school,” she said.
      
At the age of 18, two months 
after graduating from high school, Pardini ran away from home. 
On her way, she fell into drugs 
and alcohol, traveling across state borders with friends and 
boyfriends she met along the 
way.
She found herself in the woods 
of Sweetwater Branch Tent Camp with a boy she traveled with from 
Oregon. Two months after they ar-
rived, he left, taking the last of 
her things.
She had nowhere to go. She 
ended up out in the woods in tents with fellow homeless peers.
After a few years of traveling, Pardini said she was tired of bare-ly getting by on the a few dollars she made from panhandling.
“I’m done. I want to be hap-
py,” she said, adding that she en-joys having a shower and a roof over her head.
That was two years ago. She 
now lives in a one-bedroom apartment, where she pays $620 rent that includes an extra $25 for each of her pets — two cats and a dog.
Because she’s considered a de-
pendent under her parents’ taxes, she will have to wait until she is 25 to receive federal aid.
Pardini is not alone.
The number of homeless 
youths seeking higher education 
has been increasing because of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, Cyekeia Lee, the di-
rector of Higher Education Initia-
tives of the National Association for the Education of Homeless Children and Youth, wrote in an 
email. 
The act makes it easier for 
independent students to access 
higher education, she said.
The Free Application for Fed-
eral Student Aid (FAFSA) is the only indicator of just how many students attending college are homeless, and not many students 
report their homeless status, she 
said.
Tanja Philhower, the assis-
tant dean of students at UF, said she’s seen at least one student a 
semester who faces the extreme 
circumstances of homelessness — living out of a car or a tent — while still attending school.
It’s more common to have stu-
dents come to the office in risky housing situations, like when they’ve received eviction notices, Former homeless woman dreams of college
Melissa Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Rebecca Pardini plays in her home with Angel, a puppy she’s taking care of for a friend. The 22-year-old 
was homeless for three years. 
SEE WEED,  PAGE 4 AND 5She wants to be a veterinarian
Hutchinson
 Darnell
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 109 ISSUE 168
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Entries now accepted for 
ButterflyFest Facebook Photo 
Challenge
The Florida Museum is hosting 
the third annual ButterflyFest Facebook Photo Challenge! Capture your best picture of 
wildlife and enter by 11:59 p.m. 
on Aug. 31 for your chance to win prizes! Anyone, at any age, can enter this free challenge. The winning photographers will be 
recognized during ButterflyFest 
on Sept. 19. Email submissions to photo-office@flmnh.ufl.edu. For entry guidelines, visit flmnh.
ufl.edu/butterflyfest/photogra-
phy/how-enter.
Friday night swing dancing at 
the MUB
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
invites you to their weekly dance this and every Friday. We will have a free lesson for begin-
ners and intermediates open to 
everyone from 8 to 9 p.m., fol-lowed by two hours of danc-ing from 9 to 11 p.m. at the UF School of Music, Room 121. No 
partner or experience needed. 
For more information, find them on Facebook: facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/.
Students receive free admission 
to Florida MuseumStudents with a valid Gator 1 Card receive free admission 
to the Butterfly Rainforest and 
other fee-based exhibits year-round at the Florida Museum of Natural History, sponsored by 
UF Student Government. The 
museum is located at 3215 Hull Road just south of the Southwest Rec Center in the UF Cultural Plaza. The museum is open 
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday 
through Saturday and from 1 to 5 p.m. on Sunday.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mmihm@alligator.org. 
To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. 
Press releases will not appear in 
the paper.STATE
Inspectors find violations at 4 
Planned Parenthood clinicsMIAMI (AP) — Three of the 16 
Planned Parenthood facilities in-
spected in Florida last week were performing procedures beyond their licensing authority, and one 
facility was not keeping proper 
logs relating to fetal remains, of-ficials announced Wednesday.The Agency for Health Care Administration released a report 
saying clinics in St. Petersburg, 
Fort Myers and Naples were per-forming second-trimester abor-tions when they were only li-
censed to perform first-trimester 
abortions. The report also found that a Pembroke Pines clinic was not following its own procedures for 
the labeling and dating of the 
disposal of fetal remains.Florida Alliance of Planned Parenthood Affiliates Executive 
Director Laura Goodhue said in a 
prepared statement Wednesday night that the licensing viola-tions resulted from the AHCA changing its definitions of gesta-
tional periods and that the cen-
ters were operating in compli-ance with Florida law.
Heavily Hispanic Florida city re-
jects anti-Trump resolutionMIAMI (AP) — A resolution to condemn Republican presiden-tial candidate Donald Trump's 
remarks about Mexican immi-
grants failed Wednesday night to win approval of the city council in Doral, a city dominated by 
Hispanic immigrants and home 
to one of the billionaire business-man's biggest resorts.In a 3-2 vote, the council mem-bers — all of whom are Hispanic 
— rejected the resolution pro-
posed by city councilwoman and vice mayor Sandra Ruiz, a Mexican immigrant. 
Those voting against the resolu-
tion said they did not condone Trump's comments, but did not want to politicize the council's work.
Earlier this year, Trump was 
given the keys to the city after leaders praised him for bring-ing the Miss Universe pageant to 
Doral and investing in his Trump 
National Doral Miami golf resort.French horn returned to Washington state woman after 5 years NATIONAL
A woman reunites with her horn
MUKILTEO, Wash. (AP) — A Mukilteo woman has her French 
horn back, five years after it was 
stolen out of her car.The Daily Herald reports (http://is.gd/uNEonS ) that a man found 
the horn — a high-end, brass tri-
ple horn — in a Redmond pawn shop in 2011. He decided to re-turn it after coming across news stories about the theft.
The horn belonged to 61-year-
old Terry Preshaw, an attorney who is also first horn in the Mukilteo Community Orchestra. 
Preshaw bought the instrument 
used in 2009 for $6,500, but it was stolen after she left it in her unlocked car outside her Everett office the following year.
She says she's stunned and 
grateful to have her horn back.
INTERNATIONAL
Malaysia, France differ on 
MH370 part, frustrating rela-tives
BEIJING (AP) — Families aching 
for closure after their relatives disappeared aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 last year 
vented their deep frustration 
Thursday at conflicting signals from Malaysia and France over whether the finding of a plane part had been confirmed.
Malaysia's prime minister an-
nounced that a plane wing sec-tion that washed up on the French island of Reunion in the 
Indian Ocean was "conclusively 
confirmed" to be from Flight 370, saying he hoped the news would end "unspeakable" un-certainty for relatives of the 239 
people aboard. 
The announcement was in line with the Malaysian conclusion that the plane crashed in the 
Indian Ocean, killing all aboard.
But French officials with custody of the wing part said only that there were strong indications the barnacle-encrusted part — 
known as a "flaperon" — was 
from the flight and that they would work further to try to con-firm the finding Thursday.HIGH  88° LOW  76°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Jordan McPherson,    
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
Metro Editor Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alligator Staff, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Graham Hack, ghack@alligator.org   
Editorial Board Jordan McPherson,    
  Lawrence Chan, Melissa Mihm
Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Nicole Gomez, ngomez@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Grace Hudgins, Lindsey   
  Saucier, Elena Castello, Kristine Janata
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Amanda Churchill, 
  Serina Esquivel, Bailey Gaul, 
  Harry Kassal, Eric Koblick,    
  Eva Sailly, Nadine Rae Saladino ,  
  Madison Vorbrich
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde
 Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rachel LoTHURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
and we’ll have this conversation next year 
at budget time.’”
But the proposal to stop misdemeanor 
marijuana arrests was successful in contrib-uting to the nationwide conversation con-cerning the cost-beneﬁ  t of arresting people for misdemeanor marijuana possession.
The commission and Darnell left the 
meeting without resolution because the ACSO didn’t plan to alter its policies, and Hutchinson expected to see gradual change.
      
Two years later, Hutchinson appears un-
satisﬁ  ed with the lack of change — more so considering the aboutface marijuana has 
undergone in the U.S.
In August 2013, the U.S. Justice Depart-
ment announced it would no longer chal-
lenge states with laws legalizing recreation-
al marijuana. On Jan. 1, 2014, Colorado 
legalized recreational marijuana.
In total, 40 states and the District of Co-
lumbia have either decriminalized posses-sion, legalized recreational marijuana or 
allowed for non-euphoric medicinal mari-
juana.
The concept of medicinal marijuana has 
existed in American society since 1996, with the passing of California Proposition 215 advocating the use of cannabis for me-dicinal purposes.
Yet it took until Dec. 16, 2014, for the 
U.S. to announce it would no longer pro-hibit medical marijuana on a federal level.
Despite the dissolution of a federal road-
block that would prohibit medical mari-juana in Florida, the state only allows for a limited strain of non-euphoric marijuana typically called Charlotte’s Web.
The strain was signed into law by Gov. 
Rick Scott on June 16, 2014, and experts believe it will be accessible by the end of 2015.
      
With the evolution of marijuana laws in 
the U.S., Hutchinson expected Darnell to re-port fewer marijuana cases to the commis-
sion.
But in May, Darnell told the commission 
that misdemeanor marijuana cases in Ala-
chua County rose by 23 percent over the 
one-year period from 2013 to 2014.
Of the 253 reported marijuana cases in 
2014, 25 — or about 10 percent — resulted 
in arrest.
As for the others:
 76 cases resulted in a notice to ap-
pear.
 39 cases resulted in the issuing of a sworn complaint.
 25 cases resulted in the issuing of juvenile civil citations.
 88 cases resulted in warnings.
Within Gainesville city limits, Gainesville 
Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias reports 1,261 minor marijuana arrests in 2013, and 1,004 in 2014. 
In a special meeting in June, Hutchinson 
said he had amended the ACSO’s budget due to repeated arrests for misdemeanor marijuana possession.
“The second year we did a little budget 
adjustment based on the fact she was unco-operative,” Hutchinson said at the meeting. “I don’t know what we’re going to do the third year.”
Despite its legality, Darnell immediately 
questioned the move, calling it inappropri-ate.
“It no longer makes sense to put some-
body in jail, potentially ruining their life and potentially cost all of us a lot of mon-ey,” Hutchinson said at the meeting. “I re-ally want the deputies to hear ‘Sorry, you didn’t get your raise because you’re busting 
people.’”
      
This is not the ﬁ  rst time issues have ex-
isted between the commission and Sheriff 
Darnell over the ACSO’s budget.In a June 17, 2014, presentation titled 
“Agency Highlights and Challenges,” Dar-
nell made it clear that her priority is to give 
employees raises.
On one of the slides Darnell presented, 
it stated, “My priority is for employees to 
receive raises. Much needed after so many 
years without, now with a slight economic up-turn this needs to be the focus. Needed to address pay equity, compression issues and turnover.”
In an editorial to The Gainesville Sun on 
March 27, Darnell said she was informed in Sept. 2014 that her budget was being re-duced by $1.5 million. 
She said she responded by submitting a 
request to the commission to reinstate near-ly $1 million of the budget for capital items and deputy raises. 
The commissioners, in a majority vote, 
agreed to fund the capital items but not deputy raises.
The commission allotted her $500,000 — 
about half of the money left over from the 
2013 budget — believing it would be spent 
on capital items.
“At the end of budget, we said ‘Here’s 
the one-time, $500,000 capital money for vehicle purchases’ and she said ‘Thank 
you,’” Hutchinson said.
Instead, Darnell rewarded ACSO depu-
ties with raises reportedly identical to the WEED,  from pg1Hutchinson expected decrease in minor marijuana cases
2006            2007            2008            2009            2010            2011            2012            2013            2014            2015513Number of minor marijuana arrests within Gainesville city limits with possession less than 20 grams
2015 numbers are 
of cases to date1,0041,261
9621,144
1,083
734755
643659Source: 
Gainesville Police, 
Ofﬁ  cer Ben T obias% No, not legal
% Yes, legalTHURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
ones that every county and constitutional 
ofﬁ  ce employee was set to receive.
Darnell said that because it is the sher-
iff’s ofﬁ  ce’s budget, it is her decision where to allocate money.
“She looked at the situation, looked at 
her cops and looked at the cars and decided 
her cops needed it more,” Hutchinson said. 
“And legally she can do that.”
The commission and ACSO were in dis-
agreement again — highlighting a transpar-ency issue between Hutchinson and Dar-
nell.
      
While Hutchinson and the rest of the 
commission focus on making changes 
through the budget and policies, Commis-
sioner Ken Cornell is drawing attention to 
the effect that non-violent crimes, such as misdemeanor marijuana possession, have on the individual.
Cornell cites a problem that has stretched 
across the nation: a prevalence of minor drug arrests and a lack of resources within jails. 
He hopes to implement policies that 
would shift minor marijuana crimes from arrests to civil citations or a notice to ap-pear in court.
“There’s a real problem all across the 
country with people that are getting arrest-ed for minor marijuana and arrested and booked into jail,” Cornell said. “Because they don’t have resources they then sit in the jail and wait a week, two weeks, three weeks before their ﬁ  rst appearance. There’s 
a cost to society. In addition, there’s a huge 
cost to that individual.”
Time spent in jail can create a vicious 
cycle, Cornell said. The person could poten-tially lose his or her job or have to overcome 
obstacles when applying for other jobs.
“That question ‘Have you ever been ar-
rested?’ is a different answer if they just got 
a ticket,” Cornell said. “And that’s what I’m 
focused on.”
Cornell said that for 2012 and 2013, the 
sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce computed the cost of jail per 
day per person as $85.
But that only applies to the jail expenses 
and does not include costs paid to the judi-cial system, court services, judges and the arresting ofﬁ  cers.
“(The $85 is) one very small piece,” he 
said, “and that doesn’t even mention the cost to the person.”
Mental health is a major component as 
well, Cornell said. He added that Darnell re-ported a 25 percent rate of mental illness in 
the county.
About 1.6 percent of inmates in Alachua 
County self-report having a mental illness, 
according to a report. However, more than 
30 percent of inmates receive medication for 
some sort of mental illness while in the jail.
In 2014, the county received a $1.2 mil-
lion grant from the Criminal Justice, Mental Health and Substance Abuse Grant Planning 
Committee, part of which will focus on put-
ting people with mental illnesses in treat-ment facilities rather than in jail.Essentially, upon making contact with a 
mentally ill person committing a minor of-fense, an ofﬁ  cer can offer him or her the op-tion to seek treatment rather than jail time.
“As a society, we are storing our mental 
health patients in jail,” Cornell said. “That 
just makes no sense to me at all.”
      
Social issues aside, Hutchinson said 
if there’s any sheriff prepared to lead the 
ACSO into a future where marijuana is de-
criminalized, it’s Darnell.
“She is a great advocate for things I care 
about, like increased mental health fund-
ing,” he said. “I think she’s one of the lead-
ers in the state, if not the nation, in teaching 
our cops de-escalation techniques.”
Common sense dictates that a situation 
would have a lesser chance of escalating if a person were cited for misdemeanor mari-
juana possession rather than facing arrest 
and possible jail time.
“Because it is the criminalization that 
causes the problems, the associated prob-
lems with crime, the underground economy 
and so-forth,” Hutchinson said.
      
Darnell and the County Commission are 
in agreeance: The policing of marijuana needs to be addressed at both federal and 
state levels.
The path to lessening or cutting mari-
juana-related arrests can be felt across the 
nation, in pieces of legislation, in presenta-tions at county commission meetings and in ballots.
A poll conducted by the Pew Research 
Center earlier this year shows that 53 per-cent of all adults favor the legal use of mari-juana. Millennials still stand at the forefront of this issue, with 68 percent of those born 
between 1981 and 1997 being in favor of the 
legal use of marijuana.
“Marijuana criminalization is clearly 
something that society is moving away from,” Hutchinson said.
As attitudes toward marijuana legaliza-
tion continue to shift, pieces of legislation are frequently being presented in its favor.
The Compassionate Access, Research 
Expansion, and Respect States Act of 2015 (CARERS) aims to move marijuana out of the Schedule 1 list, which includes heroin, LSD, ecstasy and mescaline. 
Sponsored by Sen. Cory Booker, the act 
also aims to take down the DEA-imposed National Institute for Drug Abuse monopoly that blocks research. 
In addition, CARERS seeks to allow Vet-
erans Administration physicians to write recommendations in states that have medi-cal marijuana programs and allow states to operate without federal interference.
Other measures include allowing legal 
marijuana businesses to have access to banking services.
Editor’s note: The Alligator sent the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce multiple re-quests for comment that were denied or not 
returned.
1969       1973       1977       1981       1985       1989       1993       1997       2001       2005       2009       2013Americans’ views on legalizing marijuana
84
81
78
66 707073 73
646264
60
54
39
1215 1628252523253134 34364458Data not available 
past the year 2013
Source: GallupThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialGreetings and salutations, Gainesville! We welcome you 
to this most August occasion by which we end our Summer 
circulation of the Alligator and prepare our ink stained (not 
really because everything’s digital nowadays) hands for the coming of our Fall semester. But before we go, we must leave our valued audience for our even more valued swimsuits and margaritas and leave you with this final summer edition of … 
  Darts and Laurels
Let us start this off with a tale which we can all hold 
in equal parts with contempt. Miami -based Carlisle Devel-
opment Group was caught plundering millions-of-dollars 
worth of U.S. construction subsidies meant for constructing 
homes for the poor.
As if low- income families and individuals don’t have 
enough troubles to deal with, like putting food on the table, 
clothes on their children or staying off the line of homeless-
ness, now they’ve got CEOs lining their pockets with what government support the poor are supposed to receive in the first place. 
Such villainy is filth and its toleration shall not exist.
Matthew Greer and Lloyd Boggio your greed and un-
wholesome stench of devilry has earned you a dart.
James Amidei, Trevor Fitzgerald, Adam Crawford 
and Cody Hoppel, former Marion County deputies, have resigned for kicking and beating an arrested man. Yes, he 
was trafficking drugs, yes he was a criminal and yes, he was helpless upon the ground as you beat him following a peaceful arrest. 
It’s that sort of behavior which gives our law officers 
a bad name, and we’ll award a dart to you all as you leave the profession.
Next up, Pope Francis, who’s already been mentioned in 
this vaulted section of the opinions section, is still a pretty 
cool guy. On Wednesday he took it upon his papal duties to 
warn against exclusionary treatment of divorced or re-married members of the church. Openly telling the Cath-olic world that the church should seek the salvation and good of all of God’s children is pretty damn compassionate 
and has surely lightened the burden upon many church-
goers who may feel ostracized by their fellow congregations due to their personal circumstances. It’s an endearing move and one we see fit to award a laurel for. Pope Francis you 
now have two laurels.
Lastly, Reddit, a damn popular community news site, 
has seen fit to formalize a new set of guidelines that aims to restrict and limit certain risque or possibly offensive con-tent.
As a news organization, we are steadfast against the 
institution of most forms of censorship on an individual’s ability to practice free speech.
However, considering the fact the these new guidelines 
are quarantining communities like racist hate groups and subreddits surrounding the discussion of animated child pornography, we’re willing to make an exception on the matter. The fact that these new guidelines are evolving and developing in accordance to community discussion also 
softens the matter, but we’ll be keeping a close eye on you 
Reddit. In the meantime, these steps appear to be going in the right direction, and we’re willing to award you a laurel  
for cracking down on hate speech and child pornogra-
phy. A final goodbye, thank you to my Alligator family
When I first got to UF, I struggled to find a group of friends. I had friends speckled throughout Gainesville, 
but I always felt like I was lack-
ing that family away from family. 
I guess you could say, I eventually gave up.
After a semester of contributing at the Al-
ligator and a summer off, I got a text from my old editor asking if I wanted to go on staff. Ev-erything from then on is a blur. I was a cops writer, then metro editor, then managing print editor. Every single time I became comfortable in a position, 
the semester would end and I would have to move on. 
But that taught me something: If you’re comfortable, you’re not growing.
The things I learned at the Alligator are invaluable. 
All of the years I spent in classes, all of the nights I stayed up studying and writing papers until my eyelids felt like concrete blocks, all of the countless projects. Nothing in those 18 years or so of my time in school could ever amount to what I learned at the Alligator in 
just more than a year.
The Alligator taught me to be strong. And no, I don’t 
mean strong as in “I have no emotion.” I’m a huge crier. 
I cry all the damn time. But the Alligator taught me 
that’s OK, as long as I pick myself up afterward. You 
have to gather everything you’ve learned and just rise above your emotions.
I also learned that I’m much more capable than I 
ever thought. But I’m also incredibly fragile, constantly 
just a word or a correction or a missed deadline away 
from shattering. But I also know that broken things can often be mended, and I know I’m capable of that, too.
The Alligator also helped me learn how to trust peo-
ple. Time means nothing when it comes to friendship. Friendship isn’t marked in years or months. Rather, it’s marked by the laughs, the midnight conversa-tions, the shared stress of a newsroom, the love, the support. The people I’ve met made 
me believe in people again. I used to think 
good people were rare, but the Alligator made me realize they’re actually all over the place if you just open your heart, listen and trust.
So to everyone I have met along the way, 
thank you. To my editors, to my writers, to my co-workers-turned-family. For those late-
night phone calls, group trips to Karma Cream, ciga-rettes out back, warm hugs when we just made dead-
line: Thank you. Each of you taught me something. For 
someone whose career is based off of writing, I’m a ter-rible communicator. So if I never said thank you, well, here it is.
And for a newsroom where the main question of 
the day is “Where are we getting dinner?” we did some damn good work. We shared the stress, the tears, the 
laughter, the hugs, the conversations.
 These are things I’ll never forget. These are things 
that even when I’m 50 years old and probably far away 
from here, I’m going to look back and think, “Damn, I 
had it good.”
Melissa Mihm is a journalism senior and the manag-
ing print editor at the Alligator.Editorial Notebook
Jordan McPherson
EDITORLawrence Chan
Melissa Mihm
MANAGING EDITORSAlligator Staff
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Melissa Mihm
mmihm@alligator.org
“But that taught me 
something: If you’re 
comfortable, you’re not 
growing.”THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
In storytelling, it is a common occur-
rence for the protagonist to gain insight or make a personal breakthrough by re-treating to nature. 
Regardless of majors, UF students 
ought to be all too familiar with this trope, having read Hermann Hesse’s “Siddhartha” and Henry David Thoreau’s “Walden” in What is the Good Life? 
“Walden” in particular has inspired many 
a nature outing, with countless readers ﬁ  nd-ing Thoreau’s two-year foray in a solitary cabin as particularly rousing.
This trope exists for a good reason: na-
ture provides an opportunity for simplicity, 
a quality scarcely found in human interac-tions and day-to-day life. 
Nature is enlightening; nature is serene; 
nature simply is. Even in more chaotic nat-ural environments that have remained rel-atively untouched by man, the dichotomy between life and death is far less compli-
cated than sorting out one’s 401k account. 
In 21st century America, where you 
can’t seem to throw a rock without hitting 
a Starbucks or Wal-Mart, nature ought to 
be preserved and celebrated.
Here in Gainesville (or Micanopy, if 
you’re going to get technical about it), 
we’re lucky enough to have Paynes Prairie, a 22,000-acre nature preserve. 
For many UF students, the ﬁ  rst encoun-
ter with Paynes Prairie, which also happens to be Florida’s ﬁ  rst state preserve, is when driving up Highway 441 to begin school, 
where the state road ﬁ  nds itself smack in the middle of the preserve. 
Despite the presence of a 
wooden lookout pier along this strip of road, it is not an uncom-
mon sight to see couples or fami-lies pulled off ahead of the area, seeking to experience Paynes 
Prairie without the aid of man-
made structures. 
There’s a good reason for this: 
The view, which stretches for miles, is ab-solutely breathtaking.
Paynes Prairie offers a number of ways 
for visitors to not only immerse themselves in its marshy environment, but also be privy to the array of ﬂ  ora and fauna that 
lurk in the area. 
For instance, there’s the La Chua Trail, 
a brief trek that concludes with a lookout 
tower. On this trail, it is not uncommon to walk past several alligators resting along-side the bank of the path. On other trails, such as Bolen 
Bluff, mammals such as horses and bison often rear their heads. 
For those looking to spend an ex-
tended period of time in Paynes Prairie, different campsites host different experiences depending 
on the location.
In my estimation, the beauty 
of Paynes Prairie is that there is 
no universal experience. 
What you get out of Paynes Prairie is 
directly correlated to what you put into it: 
I’ve gone in search of rejuvenation after particularly emotionally exhausting days; I’ve brought guests of mine there in order 
to show them that Gainesville has much 
more to offer than just Midtown; I’ve gone simply because I can.
Unfortunately, I’m not writing this ar-
ticle solely to speak of Paynes Prairie’s 
myriad wonderful qualities. 
As reported by The Gainesville Sun on 
July 22, the Florida Department of Envi-
ronmental Protection — how’s that for 
an ironic name? — has been considering 
a proposal to open Paynes Prarie up for cattle grazing and other commercial uses. Said commercial uses would include tim-bering, berry harvesting and of course, 
hunting.
The mere notion of privatizing Paynes 
Prairie is offensive for a number of reasons. 
From an environmental perspective, the 
introduction of cattle would further alter a 
plot of land that has already seen a multi-tude of manmade changes, negatively af-fecting the surrounding wildlife. 
In turn, this would hamper the experi-
ence Paynes Prairie offers, robbing Florid-ians of a rare opportunity to observe and admire one of the few remaining echoes of a world long since past. 
Morally speaking, the destruction of 
natural beauty in the name of proﬁ  t is so cartoonishly evil that it’s hilarious — but then again, we are talking about the Rick Scott administration.
For readers who ﬁ  nd value in what 
Paynes Prairie offers the Gainesville and Micanopy area, I encourage you to write and call all relevant parties, namely local 
politicians and the Florida Department of 
Environmental Protection. 
Additionally, there are a number of 
ways to get involved with pre-existing ef-forts to maintain Paynes Prairie, such as 
“Friends of Paynes Prairie,” a nonproﬁ  t 
organization whose page can be found on Facebook. 
Finally, there is a petition circulating 
titled “Paynes Prairie in danger,” which as of press time has just more than 6,000 sig-natures — those numbers ought to be far higher. 
We’re absurdly lucky to be Gainesville 
residents; let’s not lose one of the qualities that make Gainesville such a wonderful place to call home.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Thursdays.
Paynes Prairie: A breathtaking site that should remain state propertyColumn
“Morally speaking, 
the destruction of 
natural beauty in the 
name of proit is so 
cartoonishly evil that 
it's hilarious.”
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
she said.
“We try to figure out what 
their current financial situation 
is,” Philhower said, and go from 
there.
Oftentimes, if a student loses 
his or her job or falls on hard 
times, they are able to resubmit 
his or her FAFSA to receive fed-eral money, she said.  
Homeless students aren’t a 
demographic UF keeps track of, 
Philhower said. UF does their 
best in helping students with the resources available.
      
Before she began working at 
Wal-Mart, Pardini’s hair used to be every shade of the rainbow.
“It used to be blue,” her favor-
ite color, she said and laughed. At one point, her hair was multi-colored; pink at the roots that 
blended into purple, light blue and then blue.
But because of her job, she 
had to dye it blonde, her natural hair color.
Not that she’s complaining. 
She doesn’t know why they hired 
her, but she didn’t question it. 
She’s just glad she got the job.
She currently lives in an apart-
ment off of Archer Road with her 
two cats, Patches and Loki, and dog, Knucklehead. 
All three pets lived with her at 
the tent camp.
The people at Helping Hands 
Clinic helped motivate her to get her life on track, she said.
While she appreciates all the 
help and supplies from Helping Hands, she volunteers because she didn’t like getting free stuff.
“I like to be able to work for 
what I get,” she said.
Because of her job, she only 
volunteers there once a month. She used to show up every Mon-
day and Thursday, the days the 
clinic operated.There, she received personal 
hygiene products. She still re-ceives items to offset her costs.
When she volunteers, she 
helps file paperwork, fill out 
forms, and usher the people who 
are there to take showers, receive medication and get clothes.
Brendan Shortley, manager 
and volunteer coordinator of Helping Hands Clinic, said he re-members when Pardini was just a client.
“She expressed a desire to 
help and give back,” he said. 
He decided to bring her in as 
a volunteer to help her get on the right track.
“She’s smarter than people 
give her credit for,” Shortley said. 
He was impressed by her ener-gy and youthfulness, something rare in adults who come off the streets.
He remembers meeting her 
a few years ago when she had nothing.
Now, he’s seen her blossom, 
becoming her own person with 
her own place and a job.
Shortley said he encouraged 
Pardini to get back to school. 
“We’re really happy” that she 
wants to go back to school, he 
said.
Many times, homeless adults 
are too busy trying to secure shelter, food and safety that they 
never get around to getting back 
into work or education, he said. 
With the establishment of 
Grace Marketplace, a local out-
door shelter, stability is possible, 
Shortley said. 
He said he expects to see a 
rise in adults taking the next step toward work or continuing their 
education.      
In the meantime, Pardini is 
settling for just working and vol-
unteering, riding the bus to each destination.
She admitted that she misses 
being out on the road, travel-
ing with no destination in mind. There was a freedom to it, she said. But the risks were high.
“There’s never 100 percent 
safety down there,” she said, re-ferring to being out in the woods, where people would drink and 
get careless.
Pardini said she’s not picky 
about what school she wants to 
go to, as long as she gets to. 
Once she does, she wants to 
study to become a veterinarian. She had a puppy, Angel, who she was looking after for a friend who was in jail.
“I know that if I win the lot-
tery, I want to get a farm and save all the animals,” she said before laughing. “But, I don’t know how well that’ll work out.”HOMELESS,  from pg 1She works at Wal-Mart, volunteers at Helping Hands Clinic
“She expressed a desire to help 
and give back.”
Brendan Shortley
Helping Hands Clinic manager 
and volunteer coordinator Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
What’s inside: 
Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game: “Baby Daddy, ” pg 10.The Avenue reviews new ﬁ  lm “Vacation, ” pg 11.Locals start petition against CMT’s upcoming  series “Gainesville”
The petition’s supporters believe the show misrepresents GNV, pg 14.By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer
Punk veterans No Fraud are 
coming to Gainesville — a music 
scene the hardcore thrashers are more than familiar with.
The 33-year-old band has 
played a lot of early shows in Gainesville and with one foot on the inside and the other on the outside, they watched the music scene change around them.
“It was really diverse when 
we ﬁ  rst started going there in the mid-to-early ‘80s,” frontman Dan Destructo said. “Even until the late 
‘80s it was still pretty diverse.”
The band will be playing the 
Sizzlin’ Summer Showcase Spec-
tacular on Aug. 14 at the Atlantic Nightspot, located at 15 N. Main St. The show will begin at 10 p.m. and doors open at 9. Tickets are available for $6 at the door.
Local band The Howleez will 
share the stage that night, and according to lead vocalist Debra Fetzer, a No Fraud show is some-thing you don’t want to miss.
“It’s going to be epic,” Fetzer 
said. “Everyone should go.”
While many of the early shows 
the band played in town were backyard parties, house shows 
like those have almost disap-
peared across America. Those were some of Destructo’s favorite shows to play because they were usually free and the people who came were “stoked” to see the bands, he said. 
During a show in Gainesville 
when venues were starting to be-
come legitimate, the band had a 
part in tearing up a freshly painted ﬂ  oor at the now-closed Hardback.
“We peeled the paint off the 
ﬂ  oor, because they painted the ﬂ  oor and then they were selling beer for a quarter,” Destructo said. “And, you know, we trashed the place, and there was a big circle 
pit hole in the paint where people 
were dancing.”
Eventually, the Hardback be-
came a real venue with bouncers, a full bar and ID checks. This hap-pened all throughout Gainesville as venues began to legitimize, and according to Destructo, when they played that show at the Hardback 
the venue wasn’t a punk club. It 
wasn’t even technically a venue.
For a little while, Gainesville 
nearly overdosed and was mono-cultured around pop punk. The once-raging music scene narrowed itself. Destructo said they were lucky because they had contacts to play shows but other people weren’t so lucky.
 “People can say it got bigger, 
but what really happened is it got more commercial,” Destruc-to said. “And that’s happened across the scene in general, but 
in Gainesville it happened like on 
steroids compared to everywhere else.”
Other than that, the band 
has had great times playing in Gainesville, Destructo said. “Great shows, craziness, full-
on raging parties and all kinds of good stuff,” he said.
They got to know a lot of di-
verse people and learn a lot from those around them in one of the early alternative music scenes.
“We’re pro-Gainesville,” De-
structo said.
In the past ﬁ  ve years or so, it 
seems like things are opening up, Destructo said. There are more older punk bands, older rock bands and even older metal bands that are being booked. 
“It seems like the scene is start-
ing to revive a little bit as far as diversity and musical taste and genres, which is good,” Destructo said.
The performer takes pride in 
putting on a lively show and has 
been known to get crazy with his 
surroundings. He believes that people can listen to music basi-cally anywhere now, but people come to shows to get involved.
“We’re all existing in this soci-
ety that has us upset at this mo-ment making this angry sound,” Destructo said. “So let’s interact, you know, make it social.”
There’s a lot more to Destructo 
other than being just a wild vet-eran of the music scene. He fronts a band that poses some serious questions about society, and he has a lot to say.
“Some of the songs talk about 
politics, of course,” Destructo said. “Because we’re a political, hardcore thrash band.”
Their message isn’t centered 
on complaining about the world around you, but what you can do about it.
“It’ll discuss not just always 
accusational stuff like ‘this sucks, that sucks, this person sucks’ but why they suck,” Destructo said. “What we should do to resolve the suckiness.”
He also raises two questions: 
Should we even do anything about it? Should we accept the world around us just because it’s what 
we know?
 The important thing is that we 
question it, he answered.
“Don’t view things from one 
angle, especially if it’s given to 
you by somebody else,” Destructo said. “So I try to communicate all that in a short period of time and in a fairly unintelligible version 
cause it’s going so damn fast, but 
that’s kind of the emotions that are going on.”
Whether it’ll be about socio-
politics like involvement in society and reality or politics about the good and bad in government, it’s all fast and intense.
It’s not always super intense, 
however. He writes about per-sonal relationships and things that we all deal with, but he still poses interesting questions to encour-age thought from a philosophical standpoint.
“If I just say ‘yes’ and I agree 
with you the whole time, neither of us are really gaining anything 
from the conversation,” Destructo 
said.
Destructo is looking forward to 
returning to Gainesville. The last time he played a show here, he crashed through a beer tent. He also called on almost every de-ity to bless his show mates, The Howleez, who are coming off of a 
successful, short East Coast tour 
and just released their new album, “No Shame.” 
Fetzer has been anticipating 
her band’s show with No Fraud.
“Mostly, I’m thrilled to be play-
ing with No Fraud, because I have the upmost respect for them and they’re highly entertaining,” Fetzer 
said. “I love the entertainment fac-
tor, and the music’s great.”THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Hardcore thrash band No Fraud will be returning to Gainesville Aug. 14. The band will play at 
the Atlantic Nightspot, located at 15 N. Main St. Tickets are available for $6 at the door.
Hardcore thrash band No Fraud to perform at the Atlantic
Have played in GNV since the ‘80s10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
By Daniela Garcia
Avenue WriterTake a sip when…
 Bonnie jokes about 
Tuckerʼs height
 Someone other than Ben 
watches Emma
 Bonnie tries to make 
the conversation about 
herself
 Someone goes on a date
 Tucker makes a Mary 
Hart reference
 Theyʼre in the Rangersʼ 
locker room
Take a shot when…
 Danny isnʼt wearing a 
shirt
 Ben hits on a girl There is a fat-Riley 
reference
 One  of  the  guys  uses 
Emma to get a girl
 Tucker mentions his ex, 
Vanessa
 Someone mentions Emmaʼs 
mom
Finish your drink…
 When Danny makes his love 
for Riley obvious
 If a scheme falls through
 Whenever Riley mentions 
her love for Ben
 When someone ends up in a 
costume
 If Danny breaks up with 
someone because of RileyWho doesn’t love those few 
weeks of relaxation in between 
semesters? With the end of Sum-mer B approaching, it’s time to start browsing through Netﬂ  ix for your next obsession. That’s right, it’s binging season. So I’ve come up with a suggestion that’ll, hopefully, narrow the search for you: Baby Daddy.
The ABC Family hit series re-
veals the life of single dad/bar-tender Ben Wheeler, who’s just trying to make his way in New York City after ﬁ  nding his new-born baby left on his doorstep.
The unexpected incident 
turned his life upside down, but with the help of his family and best friends, Ben ﬁ  nds a way to make everything work. With his unshakable habit of complicat-ing situations, viewers will en-joy watching him screw up and then mitigate it by executing some ridiculous plan.
Ultimately, Ben wouldn’t be 
anywhere without his support team. Joining Ben on his daily adventures is his quirky best friend, Tucker. Usually disap-proving of his behavior is life-long friend, aspiring lawyer and secret admirer Riley. Riley’s loved Ben for as long as she can remember, but little does she know that she has a secret ad-mirer of her own: Danny. Also known as Ben’s brother, Danny is the Ranger’s hockey player who lives with Ben and Tucker.
Between hockey practice and 
hiding his true love for Riley, Danny tends to be the one who tries to ﬁ  x Ben’s slip-ups. When Danny can’t ﬁ  x the problem, he turns to Momma Wheeler. Even at their age the boys are still liv-ing under the watchful eye of their audacious mother.
So with that short teaser, 
gather your best friends, serve up the drinks and fall in love with Baby Daddy.
BABYD  DDY
D  DDY
D  DDY
D  DDY
D  DDY
D  DDY
D  DDY
D  DDY
D  DDY
THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11
THE FILM’S OFFENSIVE HUMOR
WAS MET WITH HARSH CRITICISM.
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer
The newest installment of the “National Lam-
poon’s Vacation” series was released last week, 
only to be met with overly harsh criticism. 
Though it’s necessary to swallow any precon-
ceived ideas of high comedy prior to seeing “Vacation,” the ﬁ  lm is not bad — idiotic, yes, but certainly not the terrible movie it’s 
been made out to be.
Following a different generation of the 
Griswold family on another disastrous road trip 
to the ﬁ  ctional Walley World, John Francis Daley and Jonathan Goldstein’s directorial debut tries to 
one-up its predecessors with new gags and embar-
rassments. 
Ed Helms plays the grown-up Rusty Griswold, 
now an awkward family man and catastrophic pilot 
who pushes his family to revisit his childhood trip. 
Rusty’s wife, Debbie (Christina Applegate), longs for a more romantic getaway, but still agrees to en-ter the misshapen, ridiculous vehicle her husband bought just for the road. 
Taking up the backseat are the couple’s kids: vir-
ginal James and young, foul-mouthed Kevin (Skyler Gisondo and Steele Stebbins, respectively). Add in a role reprisal from Chevy Chase, as well as a con-servative Chris Hemsworth with prop genitals, and you’ve got yourself a pretty good setup for shenani-gans — some disturbing shenanigans. 
That often-overlooked viewer discretion warning 
before movies should not be taken lightly in regard to “Vacation.” Although the ﬁ  lm isn’t disgusting in the sense that it’s gory or overly revealing, it’s nasty 
more so because of its content. 
Death, violence, cannibalism and heavy 
involvement of human excrement are all 
presented in a light and fun manner. It isn’t surprising why some may not be amused, 
but with the ﬁ  lm’s good timing and over-
the-top situational humor, it’s hard to believe 
anyone can be so pretentious about comedy as 
to not crack a smile. 
As offensive as this humor can be, a lot of it is 
actually very liberal. The character of Debbie gets 
respect even during sensitive topics of sexuality that could easily fall prey to sexist tropes. There’s even positive mentions of gender ﬂ  uidity in the ﬁ  rst 
scenes. 
Outside the humor, the ﬁ  lm’s plot is a little lack-
ing, but there’s just enough chemistry between the 
actors to keep up some charade of charm. What 
initially came off as unpromising — even the open-
ing credits featured unfunny family photos probably just pulled from the Internet — proved to be an ab-surdly hysterical movie in spite of its recycled story.“Vacation” receives criticism 
for its sensitive comedy plotSATURDAY, AUGUST 8
Little Jake Mitchell 
& The Soul Searchers
Market Street Pub 
8:30 p.m. | Donation $10
TEN THINGS TO DO OVER THE BREAK
SUNDAY, AUGUST 9
Bob Lee at Writer’s 
Alliance of Gainesville
Millhopper Branch Library
2:30 p.m. | Free Event
MONDAY, AUGUST 10
What Happened Miss Simone?
Civic Media Center
Suggested Donation 
7 p.m. | $3-$5
TUESDAY, AUGUST 11
House of Lightning
The Atlantic Nighspot
Advance Ticket $8
9 p.m. | Door $10
FRIDAY, AUGUST 14
Cop Car
The Hippodrome State Theatre
Show times TBA
Student $5.50 | Regular $7.50FRIDAY, AUGUST 14
27 Club and Subliminal Pepper
High Dive
Doors 9 p.m., Show 9:30 p.m.
Advance $8 | Door $10
SATURDAY, AUGUST 15
The Black Out: Kodak Black
The Venue
General Admission $15
VIP $30
SATURDAY, AUGUST 15
The Civil War 
Battle of Gainesville
Matheson History Museum
10 a.m. | Free Event
MONDAY, AUGUST 17
Desnudos En Coma
8-Bit Bar
Doors open at 8 p.m.
$5 | Show 9:30 p.m.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 20
A T rex. Named Sue
Florida Museum 
of Natural History
10 a.m. | Free EventTHURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   13 12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
By Joshua Williamson
Avenue Writer 
“Hotline Bling” and “Right Hand” by Drake
Released July 31 —  Drizzy dropped two new 
singles on Spotify, and fans of singing emo-
tional Drake will love “Hotline Bling.” “Right Hand” shows more of his hard-hitting and seri-
ous side.
It’s worth noting that “Back to Back” and 
“Charged Up” are on the music streaming ser-
vice as well. Which raises the question, how many quality songs is OVO just sitting on?“Stare” by Prince
Released July 28  —  Prince has been pull-
ing his music off of Spotify and most streaming 
services, but he exclusively released his new 
single “Stare” on Spotify.
The song is as funky as you would expect 
from Prince, and it’s a great listen. Prince is insanely talented and the single does a great job of showing his conﬁ  dence and capabilities. Really, it’s just a fun song to listen to.
“Nothing Left” by Kygo ft. Will Heard 
Released July 31 — Kygo gained attention by separating himself in the dance music scene 
with his tropical house sound and shows that he’s not afraid to continue separating himself.
“Nothing Left” could even be called an 
easy-listening song. Will Heard’s vocals do a great job of aiding this soothing sound, while the beat achieves sounding relaxed without be-ing overly simple. 
“All For You” by Fairground Saints
Released July 31 — The country-pop group’s 
song begins slowly and seems very much like 
a cliché summer love song. It ﬁ  nally reveals itself on the ﬁ  rst chorus, where you’ll realize 
it’s so much more. The up-and-down pace of the duet is accented by clever instrumentation 
and progression, and the peak of the song is 
incredible. This may be the best song on this list. “It’s all for you.”
“Gold Steps” by Neck Deep
Released July 20 — The U.K. pop-punk band 
released “Gold Steps” as a single off of their 
second LP, “Life’s Not out to Get You.” Based on a progression of their sound and lyrical con-
tent alone, the song is fantastic.NEW RELEASES TO CHECK OUT ON SPOTIFY ff the Record HIS GOAL IS TO RAISE $5000.
By Patricia Rosario
Avenue Writer
Gainesville’s dearest icon and Maude’s 
Cafe performer Tom Miller is asking his fam-
ily and friends to buy him a reasonably priced dinner in a small town for his 50th birthday. 
The restaurant, Noma, is an old waterfront 
warehouse located in a small town some 4,000 miles away in central Copenhagen, Denmark. It has been voted the world’s best by Restau-rant Magazine in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2014.   
“It’s not just dinner in a small town, 
though basically put, it might be,” Miller said. “Operation Copenhagen is a mid-life thrill 
ride, going into the black hole and seeing if 
you get transported into another universe. It’s a cosmic shift and I feel unexplainably pas-sionate about it.”
The UF Dean’s list student, local writer, 
musician and painter extraordinaire who has been shining a light on the town’s artistic scene since the early ‘80s hopes the same peo-ple that have supported him throughout his 
career will support him one more time as he 
attempts to raise $5,000 to board a plane and dine with three of his closest friends at Noma. 
With just a month and half left until his 
departure on Sept. 25, Miller is almost half-way to his $5,000 goal with $2,050 raised so far in donations. Presently, he has purchased 
his plane ticket and has reserved a table for 
four, a reservation that alone cost more than $250 in telephone bills. Miller said the nearly impossible reservation was booked through sheer luck. 
“When we began, we were 900th in line, 
and when we got it, I dropped to my knees and cried.” 
Noma, opened in 2003 by Chef René Redz-
epi, is best known for its unique interpreta-tion of Nordic Cuisine.  Featuring dishes such as roasted bone marrow and cabbage and roses, Redzepi is famous for pushing the con-ventional boundaries and passionately rein-venting tradition. For Miller, it is this different dimension of 
simplicity and curiosity that attracts him most to the chef’s work.  
“I have to do something outrageous, some-
thing I can’t afford to do and have no business doing because the only way to get anything out of this life is to dive into new experiences, challenges and take a few risks.”
For Miller, Noma signiﬁ  es the achieving of 
an impossible dream.
Evan Googe, a sports management junior 
at Santa Fe and food enthusiast, calls this a once-in-a-lifetime experience.  
“This is a shared experience for everyone 
involved,” Googe, 20, said. “It’s the vicarious thrill; I support him 100 percent.” 
GNV icon to travel to world’s best restaurant in Denmark14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
Courtesy to the Alligator
HOT AS HELL
Comedy Central comedian Nick Thune will be performing at 9:30 p.m. on Aug. 
20 at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave., as part of his Florida “Hot as Hell” tour.
RESIDENTS FEEL THE SHOW   
MISREPRESENTS GAINESVILLE.
By Elena Castello
Avenue Writer
“Gainesville,” a new show on CMT net-
work, is set to air back-to-back episodes 
Aug. 20 at 10 p.m. While some may be ex-
cited that a reality television series will take place within their own city, others don’t think “Gainesville” will accurately represent all as-
pects of the show’s namesake city.
Dylan Cone is a 21-year-old Santa Fe psy-
chology junior. He began a petition with his friend protesting the airing of the series.
“It started as a joke with me and my friend 
Mike,” Cone said. “There wasn’t a main ob-
jective with it. But then friends started shar-
ing it and it got out of control.”
As of press time, the petition has more 
than 1,200 supporters.
According to the petition, “It is my hope 
to avoid a stereotypical view of Gainesville, much like ‘The Jersey Shore’ did for the en-
tire New Jersey community. The characters 
on the show do not accurately represent the 
citizens of our ﬁ  ne city of Gainesville…”
Cone said the aim is not to overthrow the 
show; he knows that isn’t likely. However, he isn’t happy with the name of the show, and 
that’s why he wants to raise awareness now.
“I think it represents those seven kids…
I don’t think it represents the entirety of 
Gainesville,” Cone said. “Having a show 
named ‘Gainesville’ just showing one part of 
what it is isn’t representative of the city.”
Cone said he won’t watch the show.
Others, however, are pleased with the idea 
of a reality show happening in their backyard. 
Amy Kirk is a UF ﬁ  nance freshman. 
She had not heard of the show, but after 
watching the sneak-peek trailer, she said she 
enjoyed it.“I’d deﬁ  nitely watch it,” Kirk said. “You 
see the social aspects and school as well. It’s like real life.” 
Kirk went on to say that even though the 
cast of “Gainesville” may appear a certain way, one shouldn’t judge the show by its pre-view.
Alex Solis is a graduate of UF. He had 
heard of the show, but hadn’t seen the trailer yet.
“It’s most likely just a portrayal of the area 
outside Gainesville,” Solis said. “There aren’t any minority characters. Gainesville has mi-
norities.”
 He also said that CMT is probably cater-
ing to its audience, and the show might not 
be for everyone.
“But business is business,” Solis said.Richard Coons, a UF mechanical engineer-
ing freshman, began his college career about six weeks ago. He had heard of the show but had never seen the trailer.
“I’m new here, but from what I know, 
(UF is) different from what I saw,” Coons said. “If it didn’t have the name ‘Gainesville,’ I wouldn’t have otherwise known it was Gainesville.”
Despite the growing number of people 
who support the petition, Cone knows it’s al-most impossible that Viacom will cancel the show.
“Although the petition started as a joke 
between friends,” Cone said, “I think it is re-ally cool that it has become an outlet for the community to have their voice heard…I think that it is a good way for everyone to get their opinion out there.” Locals start petition against
CMT’s series “Gainesville” 
“I think it represents those seven 
kids…I don’t think it represents the 
entirety of Gainesville.”
Dylan Cone
Santa Fe psychology juniorTHURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15
NATIONAL
By Ramon Peña
Alligator Contributing Writer
After a moment of uncertainty, 
the ﬁ  rst Republican Party debate of 
the election season today in Ohio promises to have an interesting showing, with hosts, times and ﬁ  -nally debaters set.
But of the 17 candidates current-
ly running for the GOP nomination, only 10 will be on stage at the main 
event, being hosted by Fox at 9 p.m. 
Those left out will still be given a chance to debate at 5 p.m., although only for an hour compared to the 
two hours for the main debate.
Notably left out of the main de-
bate are Texas Gov. Rick Perry and 
former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick San-torum, who will be delegated to the secondary debate.
Even with two hours in the main 
debate, that leaves only 12 minutes of speaking time for each candidate, and only if the time is split evenly.
“When you’ve got even 10 can-
didates on the stage, how much can anybody say that’s going to be anything more than a soundbite?” said political science professor and expert on voting behavior Stephen Craig.
The 10 were chosen through an 
average of ﬁ  ve polls, picked by Fox: Fox, Bloomberg, CBS, Monmouth and Quinnipiac. But the decision 
was fraught with questions about 
polling error and chance, particu-
larly with such a saturated ﬁ  eld of nationally recognized candidates.
“Each and every candidate’s 
goal is to connect with the audience in a way that distinguishes them from their opponents,” Craig said. “There’s no one-size-ﬁ  ts-all here; each candidate is going to have his or her own way of trying to do that. Most will fail.”
Kailyn Allen, political science 
junior and UF College Republicans chairwoman, agrees, saying the de-bate is an opportunity to showcase 
their differences. Right now, name 
recognition seems to be the biggest factor, and that’s why Trump is the frontrunner, Allen, 20, said.
One thing remains clear, though: 
Media coverage is the absolute high-est priority for the candidates, Craig said. If you don’t get covered, you don’t win.
“Having name recognition is a 
huge advantage at this stage of the game,” Craig said. “It doesn’t mean you’re going to win, but it’s a reason why people like Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are distancing them-selves from their rivals.”
It’s for this reason that Allen and 
many others believe that Trump’s numbers will fall after the debate. He has the most media recognition, 
Allen said, but his support is mostly 
among low-information voters.
“He’s such a unique ﬁ  gure that 
who knows,” Craig said. “I just re-
ally don’t think that anybody can 
predict the trajectory with Trump. 
We’re in new territory here.” 
Candidates for ﬁ  rst Republican debate face oﬀ   tonight
CANDIDATES IN 
TONIGHT’S MAIN DEBATE
 Donald Trump
 Jeb Bush
 Scott Walker
 Marco Rubio
 Mike Huckabee
 T ed Cruz
 Rand Paul
 Ben Carson
 Chris Christie
 John Kasich16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
By Patricia Potestades
Alligator Staff Writer
ppotestades@alligator.org 
Roselle Derequito started feeling sick two 
weeks ago. She had a fever and a mild head-
ache — nothing too out of the ordinary. 
But after a few days, both the fever and 
headache persisted. She became nauseated and 
started vomiting, so her family checked her into 
the emergency room in Orlando, where they re-side.
She was quickly admitted to the intensive 
care unit, where she started having seizures, so she was transferred to the neural ICU for more specialized treatment. After she spent more than a week in the hospital in a medically in-duced coma, her boyfriend, Peter Cai, created 
a GoFundMe page to help cover her medical 
expenses. 
He posted it around 11:30 p.m. Thursday. 
When he woke up the next morning, the cam-paign had already raised several thousand dol-lars, and by the end of the day, it had nearly reached the $10,000 goal. Doctors still aren’t sure whether the cause of her illness is an in-fectious reason or an autoimmune reason, so 
she’s being treated for both, said Cai, who is in 
his fourth year of medical school at UF.
Derequito has been put in a coma to prevent 
seizures that could cause brain damage. Even in her unconscious state, she has drawn sup-porters both locally and nationally who have fundraised and prayed for her family. Within seven days, the GoFundMe page raised $16,311 from 428 funders, many of them writing kind 
words of encouragement to her and her family 
in the comments section.
Those who know Derequito say they’re not surprised.
“Everywhere that she was involved in, they 
were deeply affected,” said Klea Jampasar, 23, 
one of Derequito’s alpha Kappa Delta Phi so-rority sisters. Now, Jampasar said, she’s getting support back from everywhere she has touched. Derequito graduated from UF in 2014 and be-came an AmeriCorps member, working with the Red Cross. In June, she was deployed as a disaster relief caseworker to Shreveport, Louisi-ana, and worked two weeks helping flood vic-tims. Derequito’s contract service would have ended just in time for her to begin working on her master’s degree in medical sciences at UF this Fall, living with Jampasar as her room-mate.
“For her life, it’s not about her. It’s about 
helping others,” said Nam Diep, store owner of 
Lollicup, a place Derequito frequents. 
Diep said he gets to know many of his 
customers, but Derequito wasn’t the average 
student. She had autoimmune conditions that might have limited others, but not her, he said. She was the type of student who was passion-ate about helping others, which shone in the type of work she did and her positive attitude.
“She has it worse than us, and she doesn’t 
complain about it,” he said. 
Because of her deployments, she stopped 
visiting the store as much, Diep said. When he didn’t see her for a while, he assumed she was on another deployment, but that wasn’t the 
case. On Sunday, the conditions were so grave, 
her family was told to “start making prepara-tions.”
Since then, her conditions have improved, 
but they are still severe. Before creating the Go-FundMe page, Cai said he called the hospital, curious about the expenses. They told him told it costs about $5,000 to spend one night in the neural ICU with a nurse in the room. Derequito 
had already spent several nights hospitalized, 
and they have yet to factor in the 24-hour brain monitoring, CAT scans, MRIs and other medi-cations, treatments and IV fluids she needs.
Although her parents both work as nurses, 
they’re in no position to spend hundred of thousands of dollars in hospital bills, he said. 
After the first day, Cai raised the goal to 
$15,000, and later to $17,500 when it was again 
close to being met. Derequito’s sorority sisters 
have headed two fundraising efforts this week. On Monday, they held a fundraiser at Lollicup, and raised more that $280. The second fund-raiser at Blaze Pizza raised more than $220.
Diep is holding a small fundraiser of his 
own, raffling off a Fitbit in his store for those who donate $1. Even with all the support, Cai said he doubts they’re anywhere near the cost 
of Derequito’s hospital expenses.
As for the GoFundMe, Cai said probably 
95 percent of the people donating are people 
he and Derequito’s family don’t know. Some know Derequito by association. Others are complete strangers touched by her story and the stories others write about her.
“If she’s got a 1 percent chance,” Cai said, 
“we want to give it to her.”GoFundMe for ill UF alumna raises more than $16,000
Patricia Potestades / Alligator Staff
Kendra Phillip (left), 22-year-old UF health education graduate, and Athena Wong, 
19-year-old UF accounting sophomore, sign a giant card for Roselle Derequito.
CAMPUS
IT WILL ALSO HOUSE 
ABOUT 308 STUDENTS.
By Nina Cusmano
Alligator Contributing Writer  
Along with about 308 stu-
dents, Infinity Hall will house 
more than 10 local companies 
this Fall.
The A2 Fab Lab, the Center 
for Entrepreneurship and Inno-
vation, Made@UF, Mint Studio 
and seven companies associated 
with Starter Space began the moving process to Infinity Hall on Monday. 
The ground floor of the build-
ing will be the new home for these companies as well as the living amenities for the hall’s 
residents.
“This model brings academic 
and community resources into 
the residential environment, which will create an unparal-leled environment for aspiring 
entrepreneurs,” T.J. Logan, di-
rector of housing for administra-tive services at the Department of Housing and Residence Edu-
cation, wrote in an email.
According to Logan, the resi-
dence hall located in Innovation 
Square will offer career and net-working opportunities to stu-
dents through the companies on the ground floor. Student move-in will start on Aug. 18.
He said this is the first time 
a residence hall’s purpose is to 
support entrepreneurship and 
innovation on campus.
Quang Tran, co-founder of 
Starter Space, an entrepreneur-ial co-working community that 
provides space and resources for a variety of ventures, said the new location is advantageous 
because of increased exposure 
to students and the Innova-tion Square community. Starter Space was previously located at 308 W. University Ave.
The company is a network of 
several startups and ventures, but Tran said it is also a startup itself.
The seven companies moving 
to Infinity with Starter Space are CollegeVox, Gainesville Media, HaulBox, Sari Market, We Are Neutral, Hyperlynx Media and 
an unnamed app developer. Oth-
ers may join them at the new lo-cation in the future.
Tran said the hall is going to 
be a place to live, work and play.
Mathew Chandler, director of 
the A2 Fab Lab, said the move from its location in room 307 in the architecture building has al-
lowed it to expand its exposure 
and size.
The lab is best known for its 
3-D printing but provides other 
services including laser cutting.
The location in the architec-
ture building limited them by 
forcing people to only come to the lab when they sought it out. 
Its third-floor location was some-
thing he said people do not hap-pen to walk by.
Chandler believes having 
more than 300 residents walking by on a daily basis will increase interest and make the lab less in-timidating to students.
The lab will be open in the 
hall starting Aug. 24. It will have a team of about 15 people, in-cluding about 10 interns. At least two of the interns will be living 
in Infinity, he said.
“Once we’re right there below 
where they live, they’re going 
to be more familiar and not be scared to come,” Chandler said.Infinity Hall to house 10 companies
By Li Stalder
Alligator Contributing Writer
Patricia Snyder, a UF College of 
Education professor, received a $3.5 
million federal grant in July for her research on early childhood learn-ing.
She will use the funds to exam-
ine how embedded instruction, or a teaching approach, affects learning in classrooms with preschool chil-dren who have learning disabilities.
Two other UF College of Educa-
tion professors, Mary McLean and James Algina, are co-principal inves-tigators. Another professor of special 
education at Vanderbilt University, 
Mary Louise Hemmeter, contributed to the early study.
The study is a continuation of 
a previous one started by Snyder, McLean and Hemmeter in 2007.
“Our initial study showed great 
promise, and we’re pleased to have the opportunity to replicate it with a 
larger number of teachers and chil-
dren,” Snyder said.
She said embedded instruction is 
designed to help preschool children learn everyday activities with an in-clusive environment rather than in-dividual learning.
For example, a child could learn 
how to count objects while eating a snack or listening to a story. Learn-ing skills this way would be more engaging to the student than learn-ing through worksheets, Snyder 
said.
She said her team will be work-
ing with public school classrooms 
in north central Florida and central Tennessee.
McLean said she predicts the re-
sults will be simi-lar to those of the previous study, 
which showed 
children learned 
more skills with embedded in-struction than those who didn’t.
Even though 
they observed classrooms in dif-ferent states during the first study, 
McLean said they don’t anticipate 
any regional differences.
“The purpose of this study is to 
scale up,” she said. “The numbers have increased.”
They only had about half of the 
numbers before. McLean said they were excited out the results and to have a chance to prove embedded 
instruction works. She said she be-
lieves the study’s importance is to guide teachers in instructing chil-dren in natural settings rather than highly structured ones.Education professors 
get grant for research
“This model brings academic 
and community resources 
into the residential 
environment, which will 
create an unparalleled 
environment for aspiring 
entrepreneurs.”
T.J. Logan
director of housing for admin-
istrative services at the Depart-
ment of Housing and Residence 
Education
Snyder
Local fundraisers also heldBy Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
Upon first glance, Joselin Padron-Ra-
sines seems quiet and reserved.
But that is not how UF’s Student Body 
President is looking to work during her 
12 months in office.
Padron-Rasines, 21, took office on 
April 22 and is already making the most of her first semester as President.
During her first three months in office, 
Padron-Rasines, along with her Diversity Affairs Secretary, Kalyani Hawaldar, has worked with administration members to implement gender-neutral single-stall bathrooms in Cypress Hall, a residence 
hall, which is set to open in Fall.
Padron-Rasines said she hopes to 
have signage change for three single-stall 
bathrooms in Peabody Hall as well as sig-nage change at the Institute of Black Cul-ture and the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Culture by the end of the Fall semester.
“I think we were both pleasantly sur-
prised with how responsive the univer-
sity has been toward this issue,” Padron-
Rasines said.
When approved, the change will only 
affect single-stall bathrooms on campus, Hawaldar said.
Summer was the perfect time to make 
the proposal, Padron-Rasines said, be-cause there are less students on campus and administration members she had to 
work with — including members from 
the Housing Department, Department of Student Affairs, Department of Business Affairs and the Physical Plant Depart-ment, among others — are still planning for the upcoming Fall and Spring semes-ters.
“I was like, ‘We have to have this 
done as early as possible’ because if it’s 
Fall, they’re going to be bogged down 
with other projects that need to happen,” she said.
Padron-Rasines and Hawaldar led a 10-student committee to get the task done.
The committee met once a week com-
piling research and reaching out to other colleges that already have gender-neutral bathrooms (including Florida Interna-tional University and the University of North Florida) to find out what it took for them to implement gender-neutral bathrooms on campus, Hawaldar said.
“We did a lot of research as to how it 
affects all students,” Hawaldar said.
And as she prepares for her first Fall 
semester, Padron-Rasines will be staying busy.  In addition to continuing the push to implement more gender-neutral bath-rooms on campus, Padron-Rasines has already sent out a transportation survey to students on Friday to find out how the university can improve campus safety, a 
project she will continue in the Fall.
The survey asks students about cur-
rent transportation services offered — 
SNAP, RTS, Later Gator, Walk Safe, Got-cha Rides and Uber. Padron-Rasines said the survey will be used to help gauge whether to enhance current options or see if the university needs to implement other options.
In addition, she is working on Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs’ goal-setting task force and starting to work on a bike-sharing task force, which she said is more of a long-term project. 
Padron-Rasines also plans to start a 
biweekly coffee get-together called “Java with Jos” to give students an opportunity to meet with her outside of the normal 
office setting.
Ultimately, Padron-Rasines knows 
her goal is to serve the students, and she 
wants the students to know she is there for them.
“I really want to make my presidency 
an interactive one where students feel comfortable and know their Student Body president is someone they can 
talk with,” Padron-Rasines said. “I don’t 
want to be out of touch.”
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
jmcpherson@alligator.org
After more than three months between 
nomination hearings, UF Student Government 
now has its entire Executive Branch agency 
heads approved.
The Student Senate approved the final six 
agency leaders by unanimous consent at Tues-
day’s meeting — the final of the Summer se-
mester — which ended a 105-day drought be-
tween nomination hearings.
“I think all of us, SG exec, took a long time 
compromising, but we compromised and it turns a new leaf here in Student Government,” 
Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines 
said.
The six agency heads — Kevin Gerson (Ac-
cent), Gabrielle Beecher (Action SG), Austin 
Young (Chomp the Vote), Matthew Hoeck 
(External Affairs), Robert Finigan (Student Government Productions) and Dillon Knox (Student Government Production comptroller) — were unanimously nominated by the six-
person executive committee.
“That is a huge accomplishment,” Student 
Senate President Davis Bean said. “And I am 
glad for us to go ahead and get started on 
those.”
Two election commissioners — Matthew 
Lastinger and Brian Sullivan — and 71 seats 
spanning 24 university committees were also approved during the meeting without opposi-
tion.
Budget approved
The Senate approved the more than $20.7 
million Activity and Service Fee Budget for the 
2016-2017 academic year by a vocal majority Tuesday.
The budget represents a 3.3-percent increase 
from the $20 million budget for the 2015-2016 year.
“There were small cuts where cuts could be 
made, fitting that vision of providing services that are unique to the University of Florida and 
also keeping the cost of education low,” said 
Budget and Appropriations Chairman Smith Meyers.THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   17 
Padron-Rasines has big 
plans for presidency
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines speaks during Tuesday’s 
Student Senate Meeting.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Senate approves agency 
heads, budget, 5 resolutions 
in final Summer meetingDanielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Jammin’ for Cliff
Alex Wigglesworth (center), 25, presents a red “Jammin for Cliff” shirt to Shaina Wallach 
(left), 29, and Kari Buchanan, 33, during a fundraiser at the High Dive Tuesday night. The shirts sold for $20 and proceeds went toward medical bills for Cliff James Deyampert, who was shot July 25 and paralyzed from the waist down.
RESOLUTIONS PASSED
The Senate passed the following 
five resolutions in its final meeting:
• 2015-1054  Resolution  
 Supporting Parking Ticket Amnesty 
Period For Certain Parking Decal Violations During Drop-Add Week
• 2015-1055 Resolution 
 Encouraging the Exploration of Midterm Faculty Evaluations
• 2015-1056 Resolution
 Congratulating the University of Florida American Society of Civil Engineers’ (ASCE) Concrete Canoe and Steel Bridge T eams for Winning Two National Titles
• 2015-1057 Resolution  
 Supporting Efforts of Graduate Assistants United
• 2015-1058 Resolution  
 Supporting Gainesville’s Entrepreneurial Community and to Honor its ContributorsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-17-25-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com    8-6-15-8-1
Countryside 4000 SW 23rd St, Furnished,  pool view,  bus lines 9 & 35, $385/room/mo. Yr lease, $250 dep, $150 elec allow. Cable & Internet incl, studious-nonsmoking. Not a party place. No pets. Bonus avail. for bring -
ing roommates. 4 rooms avail (1 now & 3 Aug 4th). Call 941 661 0462 lv. msg    8-17-15-7-1
DONT LIVE AT THE WRONG PLACE
Countryside at the University
4000 SW 23rd St.
4BR/4BA. Excellence for student achieve -
ment at UF. Individual lease. $395.
Call for details Bristol Park Realty
Phone 352-367-2669 or 
bristolparkmanagement.com
All applications in person
rich@bristolparkrealty.com
8-28-15-11-1
Fully Renovated 4/2 Apartments@ University Commons $449/room. Includes new kitchen appliances, granite counter tops, porcelain tile, new furniture, cable, internet, and utilities. Call Tony at 352-284-3131    8-6-15-5-11BR/BA available in 4BR/4BA condo @ Countryside. Furnished with bed, desk, chair and bookshelf. $400/mo. Utilities, cable and internet included. Bus rts 9, 35. E-mail coun-
trysideapt@gmail.com    8-17-2-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-17-15-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
8-17-15-25-2
GREAT PRICE     GREAT LOCATION
Fall leases avail for modern, clean, well-maintained 1BR apts 1/2 blk east of UF and 1/2 blk from Colleges of Education and Architecture. K & M Properties 352-372-1509   8-17-15-25-2ALLIGATOR ALLEY
2/2 &4/3 apt homes. Starting at $1175. 
Parking included. Walking distance to UF & 
Stadium. Now leasing for Fall.
For info call 352-872-4644
www.alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
8-17-15-12-2
5 BLOCKS TO UF/LAW SCHOOL
4X3 HSE, 2800 sq.ft. incl. bonus rm w/ sep entrance, bath, kitchenette. Cent. AC/HT, oak floors, sun rm, alarm, garage W/D great yard in neighborhood Pets ? $1,690 352-665-81669-3-15-16-2
Avail 4 bdrm Houses/Rooms!Rent House or Room2635 W Univ $1500305 NW 28th $1800call Eric 352-6827424     8-17-15-5-2
Units for Rent, Near UF
● 3/2 house, 1-mile to Law School $975/mon
● 2 /2.5 in Casablanca $750/mon
Classic Prop of N FL, Inc / 352-331-2100     
8-24-15-5-2    
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
8-31-15-8-2
HEAR THE GATORS ROAR!
Huge 4BR/3BA w/ pvt courtyard, 1 blk north of UF. Clean, modern, all electric, w/ new paint, carpet, tile, fridge & much more. Available im-mediately! $2200/mo. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt 352-372-1509    8-17-15-2-2
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
ABSOLUTELY BEAUTIFUL 3BR/3.5BA, 3 blks north of O'Dome & UF. 2200 sq ft  + over-sized 2-car garage. Too many quality amenities to list + low utils in this 7 yr old exec-style home. $2100/mo. K&M Properties Realty & Property Mgmt. 352-372-1509    8-17-15-2-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUGUST 1ST1 large BR with private bath in large quiet home. 10 mins from Shands, 5 min walk to bus.Perfect for medl/grad/intl student. $500/mo + share utils. Please call 850-420-2122   8-28-15-7-2
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-17-25-5
Secluded Alachua home, 2000, 8.9 acres, 3br/2ba 2440SF, well/septic, open plan, darkwd fireplace, vaulted ceiling, stor-age, pasture, convenient to Gville, springs! $286,500 NEG Exit Realty Producers Sue Paper 301-806-8935   8-25-15-5-5
A river runs thru it in NC.3 acres w/2bed 2bath log cabin$159,900. Huge screened porch,fpl, one-level. Hurry! 866-738-5522    8-6-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 607 NW 13th Street
8-17-15-14-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-17-15-25 -10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      8-17-25-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 FurnishingsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   19 
SAWMILLS from only $4,397.00- MAKE 
& SAVE MONEY with your own band -
mill- Cut lumber any dimension. In Stock, ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    8-6-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-17-15-25-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
8-17-15-25-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
8-17-15-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
8-17-15-25-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales andScooter Service. We offer free estimates on all repairs and we come to you.We also have new scooters starting at$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   8-17-25-11
Scooter for Sale, Still under warranty.  You need a motorcycle license. $1,000. Comes with cover and lock. Text or call after 6pm 352-219-8190                8-25-15-4-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31918-17-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     8-17-25-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   8-17-25-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  8-17-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-12
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           8-17-25-12
A-1 DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!  Help United Breast Foundation education, prevention, & support programs.  FAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION -855-398-4992    8-6-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-17-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       8-17-15-25-13WANTED: ACOUSTIC BASS
For student. Ok if needs repair. Please call 
Mr. Greene 352-473-0646    8-24-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-17-15-25-14SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    8-17-15-
25-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
8-17-15-25-14
Gestational Surrogate Needed
to carry our embryo, no egg or sperm dona -
tion required. 1 yr living expenses covered. Text for additional information 305-582-9800    
8-28-15-24-14
DRIVE WITH US MAKE MONEY!
Are you smart, well dressed, withgood customer and driving skills?
Cab24hr.Com 352-505-3222   8-17-15-22-14
10 For Sale 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
Wanted. Energetic, hard working fitness mind-
ed individual to sell high quality merchandise at Gainesville's longest standing  (39 years and counting) LOCAL Sporting Goods store. Apply in person only, full or part time position will be entertained for the right individual. Lloyd Clarke Sports  1504 NW 13th St    8-25-15-10-14
Gator Dining Serviceslocated on the University of Florida Campus, is now hiring  part-time cashiers, baristas, line cooks, servers and utility positions for the Fall Semester. We over flexible sched-ules, competitive pay, and a great working environment. Those interested in joining this dynamic team can apply on line at www.ga-tordining.com, no paper application are ac-cepted. EEO/Drug free Workplace.
Aramark is an EQUAL EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION employer. Candidates are considered for employment with Aramark without regard to their race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, gender, pregnancy, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic informa-tion, military status, protected veteran status or other classification protected by applica -
ble federal, state or local law    8-17-15-9-14
Chef/Cook Wanted.
Looking for a cook to work 9-5 Monday 
through Friday. For more information please 
email gainesvillecook@gmail.com    8-17-
15-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '15
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-4-15-15-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time, Flexible Hours!
Positions Available:
Event Supervisor, Warehouse Staff, Cook
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6244
8-17-15-5-14
JANITORIAL WORK
3:30 pm - 6:30 pm   Mon thru FriMust have experience, pass background check, work well with others. Send resume via fax 352-373-6012 or email info@allcleanfl.com    8-24-15-5-14
Office Ass't-F/T One of these Passions-FX Show Justified/health&fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, Love to read, Math interest. 1 yr+ commitment. paulsrothstein@gmail.com 8-25-15-5-1425 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Become a driver forStevens Transport! Earn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed! Local CDL Training!Job Ready in 3wks! 1-800-709-7364    8-6-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new ca-reer? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghiway.com EOE   8-6-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE   8-6-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    8-6-1-14
ATTN: Drivers - $2K Loyalty BonusEarn Over $55k Your First YearStay Cool with Newer KWs w/ APUs   CDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782www.drive4melton.com     8-6-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  8-17-15-25-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-17-15-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-17-15-25-15
NEED A TAXI?
Fast, safe, reliable service24 hrs a day. Reservations available.Cab24hr.Com 352-374-8484   8-17-15-22-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    8-6-1-15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    8-6-1-15 DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 
mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call 
Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY 
Installation! CALL Now! 888-986-4858    8-6-
1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  
Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    8-6-1-16
Oxygen Concentrator InogenOne - Regain Independence.Enjoy Greater Mobility. NO more Tanks!100% Portable Long-Lasting Battery. Try It RISK-FREE! For Cash Buyers Call 1-800-768-4124    8-6-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Sherlockians
interested in joining with others so inclined in a new, online scion society, please send email ASAP to ceb221b@gmail.com.    9-1-15-15-19
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NEED A TAXI?
Download the app today!Rated 5-Star on Google Play!Cab24hr app 352-374-8484    8-17-15-22-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com10-24-17-21RED'S TAVERN Mo.-Free Pool, Tu.-Bike Night, Wed.-Ladies Night, Th.-Men's Night, 
Fr.-Karaoke, Sa.-Open Mike Su.-Free Pool/$1 
PBR Drafts Get 1 free House draft w/ Student 
ID. HWY 27 Ft White 352-339-6978 8-17-5-
21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
We'll be back in Fall
Our next print edition is the New 
Student Edition on Aug. 17. We will be posting stories online at www.alligator.org/sports.Will Grier is impressing coaches and teammates while linebacker Antonio Morrison is ahead of schedule from his knee injury. Read the story on pg. 22.
Florida soccer begins its season
The Florida soccer team will begin its exhibition schedule with two games 
at James G. Pressly Stadium. The Gators will face Troy on Aug. 11 at 7 p.m. before playing Florida Gulf Coast on Aug. 15 at 7 p.m.  FLORIDA OPENS FALL 
PRACTICE TODAY.
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
 
Jim McElwain sees himself as 
the head of a corporation. 
And his corporation, the Flor-
ida football team, is currently be-
ing re-branded. 
The program was in disarray 
after former head coach Will Mus-
champ failed to bring consistent success in his four years as coach.  
But McElwain has already got-
ten the players on the team to buy into his philosophy and the change doesn’t just happen on the football ﬁ  eld.
“It’s interesting because there 
are so many things that go into a successful football program, to a successful university, to a suc-
cessful business,” McElwain said 
at Florida's media day. 
“It doesn’t matter what it is. 
It’s all the little details. Not just about the player, not just about 
the play that was called, but all 
the things that go on a year-round cycle.”  
Once he took the job at Florida, 
McElwain had a vision — a vision of bringing back a football pro-gram that has won three national 
championships and eight South-
eastern Conference titles in its his-tory back to national prominence.  
And to do so, he's focusing on 
the program's very infrastructure.
Major changes were needed and McElwain was intent on bringing in a like-minded staff.
One of those like-minded peo-
ple was Randy Shannon. 
McElwain’s vision is one of the 
reasons why the current co-defen-sive coordinator and linebackers 
coach left his former job as Arkan-
sas' linebackers coach.
“He’s a guy that has high vi-
sions of things he wants to accom-plish,” Shannon said. 
“He’s done a lot of great things 
where he’s been at throughout the country and it was an opportunity to work with a guy that I think has 
done a great job.”
McElwain was successful at his 
two previous stops before Florida. 
At Alabama, he was the offensive coordinator for two national title-
winning teams in 2009 and 2011. 
He parlayed that success into 
a head-coaching job at Colora-
do State, where he helped turn 
around a program that was look-
ing for some guidance.
The Rams hadn’t had back-
to-back winning seasons since 2002-03, but McElwain led them 
to eight wins in 2013 and 10 wins 
in 2014.  
McElwain’s success at Ala-
bama and Colorado State is what 
attracted Shannon and the other 
coaches on the staff to come to Gainesville.
And with McElwain nine 
months into being named the 
head coach of the Gators, the ﬁ  rst 
part of his vision is playing out the way he wanted it to.
Everyone is buying in.  “One of the things we’ve tried 
to do, which people have done and the people that have been 
here when we took over have em-
braced, is the idea of everybody being on the same page with the same mission,” McElwain said. 
“The same view, understand-
ing the only reason any of us exist is because of these players. That’s it.”
As Fall camp begins today and the season starts on Sept. 5 against New Mexico State, McEl-wain has everyone in the program 
beaming with conﬁ  dence. 
Players were quick to praise 
what he’s already done in his 
short time as head coach and how 
much different things are with 
him.
Still, McElwain recognizes the 
program is nowhere near where it needs to be and it has a long way to go.
“We’ve had some great change 
already, and yet we’ve got a long 
way to go, but we’re getting 
there. And those are not overnight ﬁ  xes,” McElwain said. 
“Those are the things that hap-
pen over time, and I’m excited this administration and our presi-dent has afforded us the opportu-nity to take this program in that direction.”
Jim McElwain's vision for the Gators begins to take shape
AIR JORDAN
With the ﬁ  rst day of Fall camp at the 
forefront, there are still a plethora of ques-tions surrounding the team that new head 
coach Jim McElwain hopes to have an-
swered before the season kicks off on Sept. 5. Well, like you, I’m not a fan of waiting. So with that said, here are my answers to 
ﬁ  ve burning questions that have yet to be 
answered from this team.
 
1.) Will Grier will be the starting 
quarterback.
This one’s a no-brainer for me. Grier, 
the redshirt freshman, is the better quar-terback. That’s it. His main competi-
tion, sophomore Treon Harris, may have 
six starts under his belt, but his statline (49.5-percent completion, 1,019 yards in 111 passing attempts) is far from anything that will guar-antee him the starting job. Plus, Grier outperformed Har-ris in Spring camp (Note: Har-
ris missed time early in camp 
due to the death of his cousin, but the fact still stands). Right now, the quarterback position 
is Grier’s to lose.
 
2.) Jake McGee will be Florida’s 
most reliable pass catcher.
Regardless of which quarterback takes 
the ﬁ  rst snap, he is going to need a safety 
blanket. That is going to be McGee, the 
sixth-year tight end. While McGee did not 
take part in contact drills during Spring while rehabbing from a broken 
leg, the Virginia transfer can 
still be argued as one of Flor-ida’s best pass-catchers down the middle of the ﬁ  eld. He’ll be there for check-down passes, 
quick outs, and third-and-short 
situations. 
Remember, he led Virginia 
in receptions the year before 
transferring to UF. McGee 
knows how to get the ball in his hands, 
and Grier or Harris (well, Grier, if No. 1 works out) will make sure to target him.
 
3.) Kelvin Taylor will not lead UF 
running backs in rushing yards or 
touchdowns.With the depth the Gators have at run-
ning back, McElwain would be a fool not 
to use a by-committee approach. With that 
said, Kelvin Taylor — a junior and presum-
ably the starter heading into camp — and Scarlett, the four-star freshman, are like-ly to receive the bulk of the carries with 
Adam Lane taking on goal-line and short-
yardage situations. 
And if last year showed anything with 
the running backs, it was that Taylor ex-celled against Georgia and was just, well, 
there during the rest of the season. 
If history were to repeat itself, Scarlett 
and Lane will get their opportunities early.
 Answering ﬁ  ve Fall camp questions before the players hit the practice ﬁ  eld
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 23Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
UF football coach Jim McElwain speaks during UF"s media on Wednesday at T ouchdown T errace in 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson112622   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
NOTEBOOK
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Coach Jim McElwain won’t give an edge to 
either quarterback going into camp, but if you 
read between the lines, Will Grier appears to have emerged as the better passer and will be a leader on offense.
When asked about the qualities of both 
quarterbacks, offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier praised Treon Harris’ mobility but said Grier’s best attribute is his ability to throw from the pocket and get to his third and fourth progressions. 
Redshirt senior offensive lineman Trip 
Thurman said Grier was also among the offen-sive leaders who organized player-run practic-es during the summer to help the offense gel. 
No timeline for Morrison’s return: 
Seven months and two surgeries after injuring his left knee, senior linebacker Antonio Morri-son’s status for the season opener against New Mexico State is still unknown.
The senior will participate in non-contact 
drills during Fall camp and is signiﬁ  cantly fur-ther along in his recovery than the team ex-pected, McElwain said. But neither he nor Mor-
rison were willing to give 
any timetable for the line-
backer’s return. 
McElwain went as far as 
saying that there is no guar-antee the senior will play this season. 
Yet the coach stressed 
that he couldn’t be more 
impressed with how much work Morrison has 
put in to get to this point.
“I just know this, the fact he’ll be out there 
is short of a miracle based on that knee,” McEl-wain said.
McElwain won’t concentrate on 
offense:  Despite his background working 
with offenses, McElwain doesn’t plan on 
putting extra emphasis on that side of the ball.
Rather than limiting himself to one group of 
players, McElwain said he wants to play a role 
in all three parts of the game while giving the 
entire team equal attention.
“I just feel like it’s very important that the 
head coach is involved in all aspects, special teams, offense and defense, that the players know that I’m there for them at all times,” he said.Grier impressing coaches, Morrison ahead of schedule
Morrison
THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   23 
4.) Once again, Ahmad 
Fulwood will fail to break 
out.
When Fulwood arrived at UF 
two years ago, fans looked at him 
as a potential star. 
Two years later, they’re still 
waiting. 
In 24 career games, the Jackson-
ville native has just 326 receiving 
yards. More than a quarter of them 
were on an 86-yard catch-and-run in the Birmingham Bowl, a play that would not have happened if not for a stellar block by Rod John-
son. 
Fulwood has had his chances to 
execute. 
He hasn’t. And with names such as De-
marcus Robinson, Brandon Powell 
and Antonio Callaway lining up at receiver, Fulwood will ﬁ  nd himself near the bottom of the totem pole if he doesn’t perform well early.
5.) Antonio Morrison will 
produce, but he won’t be the 
same.
There’s no doubt that Morrison 
is a ﬁ  ghter. He led the Gators last 
season with 101 tackles and had at 
least 10 in six games.  
But since suffering a knee injury 
in the Birmingham Bowl on Jan. 3 
— seven months and two surgeries 
ago — he has yet to take the ﬁ  eld 
for any sort of practice. 
If Morrison is able to play at all 
this season, which is still up in the air, he won't be himself.
Expect the combination of Alex 
Anzalone and Jarrad Davis to pick up a lot of the grunt work this year and Matt Rolin, Jeremi Powell and 
Daniel McMillian to see more play-
ing time.COLUMN,  from pg 21Morrison has had two 
surgeries in last year
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Senior linebacker Antonio Morrison (3) enters T ouchdown T errace in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on 
Wednesday for UF's media day. 
24   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 6, 2015
