VOLUME 109 ISSUE 111 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Spring Break locales have no sex appeal
Read Robyn’s take here, pg 7.  
Pride ﬁ  nds fashion warriors at Reitz 
The fashion show is April 2, pg 5. Therapy horse inducted into hall of fame
Magic was also named a top 10 heroic animal by 
Time magazine, pg. 8. Kirsti Merritt 
and the UF softball 
team heads to 
California for two 
tournaments. Read 
the story on page 
13.
64/48
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Hannah Morse / Alligator Staff
Jazz Jams
Freddie “The Voice” Lonzo, the trombone player for the Preservation Hall Jazz Band, performs at the frank Downtown Street Fair on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Thursday night. In the background, Joe Lastie Jr. plays the drums.
LOCAL
EMILY CARDINALI
Alligator Staff Writer
ecardinali@alligator.org
Big changes to the downtown 
plaza will begin over Spring 
Break.
The Gainesville Community 
Redevelopment Agency begins 
renovation for Bo Diddley Com-munity Plaza on Sunday. The 
plaza will be closed for about one 
year for a more than $1.8 million facelift, which includes a new ki-
osk, another small cafe building 
and a water wall, which is a deco-rative fountain.
Two regular features of down-
town are relocating as a result: 
the farmers market and the 
homeless.
Gainesville city ofﬁ  cials 
worked with farmers market rep-
resentatives to ﬁ  nd the best ﬁ  t to 
relocate the weekly Union Street Farmers Market. They took into 
consideration areas that were 
close to the original location, ac-cessibility and parking. The spot 
they found was a parking lot 
on the corner of Southwest Sec-
ond Street and Southwest First 
Avenue, across the street from Loosey’s Downtown Gainesville. 
A CRA project manager, Na-
thalie McCrate, said the farmers market used to sit on that lot.The city is prepping the site 
by adding things like electrical sources for vendors and doing general clean up.
The second question people 
ask, she said, is what will hap-
pen to the homeless people. 
City workers, Gainesville Police and volunteers with Grace Mar-ketplace have been working on 
outreach to any homeless people 
who might be left living on the plaza even after Grace opened.
“We’ve been working for a 
long time to make the transition as smooth as possible,” she said.
GPD Captain Brian Helmerson 
said police and volunteers have 
handed out ﬂ  iers with informa-
tion about the renovation to the homeless population that list re-sources like the St. Francis House 
that the homeless can utilize.Bo Diddley Plaza to close for renovations Sunday 
SEE DIDDLEY, PAGE 4
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
About 90 UF faculty members passed a reso-
lution to oppose the legislation for the concealed 
carry of weapons Thursday afternoon.
Professors debated the issue at the United Fac-
ulty of Florida meeting at 3 p.m. Thursday in the Reitz Union Auditorium, which was UF President Kent Fuchs’ ﬁ  rst meeting.  
A new bill — House Bill 4005 — would al-
low concealed carry permit holders to carry their weapons freely on campus.
In the resolution, the UFF said the majority of 
faculty, students, administrators, law enforcement ofﬁ  cers and student mental health professionals believe that prohibiting ﬁ  rearms on campus is es-sential to an overall campus safety plan.
The resolution said passing the legislation 
would create an undeniable potential for acciden-tal shootings. There are issues when it comes to Faculty opposes 
concealed carry on UF campus
 CICERONES WILL GIVE OUT 
100 APPLES TODAY.
ANSLEY PENTZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
Joe Garron vividly remem-
bers the wooden bins that offered 
up red apples to UF students throughout the day.
“You get a little hungry when 
you’re walking from class to 
class,” said Garron, a 1957 UF 
alumnus.
In the 1950s, students paid 5 
cents when they took an apple from one of the unsupervised bins, and they were expected to report those who stole, a tradition known as Honor Apples.
Today, the Florida Cicerones 
are ﬂ  ashing back to the ‘50s.
From 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., the 
Florida Cicerones will be giving away 100 free apples on Turling-ton Plaza, combining the old tradi-tion with the newer one of walk-ing through Turlington, said Anna Shao, Florida Cicerone and tradi-tion keeper co-chair.
Shao said the event shares the 
apple tradition from UF’s past, 
and students can also ﬁ  ll one of 
the photo slots in their F Books, a piece of graduation memorabilia that documents completed tradi-tions.
Shao, a 20-year-old UF bio-
chemistry junior, said students 
don’t think about the everyday 
traditions they complete, such as 
walking through Turlington, liv-
ing in a dorm or eating in a dining hall.Honor Apples remind students of UF tradition, the honor codeSEE FACULTY, PAGE 4
SEE APPLES, PAGE 4News Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 111 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
87/61RAIN
82/61CLOUDY
75/59RAIN
63/55PARTLY 
CLOUDY
64/48
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. UF’s “On-Time” deadline 
to receive the results of your FAFSA from the federal pro-
cessor is March 15. Students 
should complete a FAFSA well before March 15 to en-
sure that the federal processor 
has time to analyze and send 
the results of your FAFSA to 
UF Student Financial Affairs.
Be a Game Changer Video 
ContestSTRIVE at GatorWell, the Women’s Student Association and Student Government’s 
Health Affairs Cabinet are 
excited to unveil our “Be a 
Game Changer” video con-
test. Help educate UF on how 
to intervene to end sexual violence. What better way to teach than by doing? So show 
us your best bystander sce-
narios in a public service an-nouncement video format, and you could win up to $550 in UF Bookstore gift cards. 
Deadline for submission is 
March 15. For official rules and eligibility, visit gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Take Back the Night
The Office of Victim Services, in collaboration with STRIVE and other campus organiza-tions, is looking for an artist 
to use his or her gifts toward 
making a creative stand against sexual violence. Take Back the Night is an annual 
event to “shatter the silence” 
of sexual violence. It will take place April 1. They’d like to see a student help develop a 3-D art piece that can be used 
in promotion of the event, 
as well as in the aftermath as a visual reminder of how the Gator community takes 
a stand against sexual vio-
lence. If this project interests you, please email victim ad-vocate Annie Carper at an-
nekcarper@ufl.edu or send a 
Facebook message.
Ask a Scientist: Geology
Science is all around you! 
Take advantage of this op-
portunity to talk one-on-one with researchers from UF’s Department of Geological Sciences on March 8 from 1 to 
4 p.m. at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History. Bring your specimens and find an-
swers during an afternoon of 
discovery and learning. For 
more information, call 352-
273-2064.
Can You Dig It?
Dig into geology and dis-
cover the Earth at your feet. 
Enjoy hands-on activities WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gay Movie Night
This month’s movie is “Burning Blue.” They have been trained to meet danger head-on and ex-
ecute vital strategic maneuvers 
while flying at breathtaking speeds. But after a series of fatal accidents, a close-knit squadron of male Navy pilots begins to 
splinter and becomes the focus 
of a criminal investigation. As a government agent digs to un-
cover the cause of the accidents, 
two of the pilots engage in a 
secret, forbidden relationship. 
Their affair is exposed, and the squadron is engulfed by 
an incendiary scandal that will 
challenge each pilot’s notions 
of friendship, love, honor and 
courage. A $2 donation is re-quested to cover cost of snacks. 
It’s at 7:30 p.m. Friday at the 
Pride Community Center, 3131 NW 13th St.
Public meeting for Save Our 
SuwanneeSave Our Suwannee is hosting a free public education presen-
tation. Robert Knight will pres-
ent “Restoring the Suwannee 
— A Hopeful Future.” He will 
talk about the current scientific understanding of impairments, 
their causes and effects, and 
will lay out a comprehensive plan for restoration and protec-tion. It will be at 7 p.m. today in the Great Outdoors Ballroom, 
65 N. Main St. in High Springs. 
Light refreshments will be pro-vided afterward.
Gallery Talk: “We Have Always 
Been Fashionable”Join Christopher Richards, UF alumnus, Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow at the Centre for the 
Creative Arts of Africa in 
Johannesburg, South Africa and Guest Curator of the ex-hibition Kabas and Couture: Contemporary Ghanaian 
Fashion for a public Gallery 
Talk this Sunday at 3 p.m. at the Samuel P. Harn Museum 
of Art. Parking is free on week-
ends and Sunday hours are 1 to 
5 p.m.  Richards will discuss the 
dynamism and complexity of Accra’s historical and contem-
porary fashion culture.
Bottom Up Sex Ed!
Registration closes Saturday for 
Yes Means Yes, an interdisci-
plinary, interactive, non-credit, 
five week, student-facilitated seminar that encourages mean-
ingful, engaging discussions on 
consent and sexuality. Meetings 
are Thursday evenings March 
12 through April 9 from 6:30 to 8 p.m. For more information 
and to register, go to gatorwell.
ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
Apply Now for 2015-16 Financial 
Aid
To apply for 2015-16 finan-
cial aid, complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. and watch demonstrations of volcanic eruptions March 14 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the 
Florida Museum of Natural 
History. Explore the museum and check out displays and 
activities on geology, fossils, 
gems, minerals and much more 
from Florida and around the 
world at this free event for all ages. This event is presented 
by the University of Florida 
Department of Geological 
Sciences and the Florida 
Museum in collaboration with the Gainesville Gem and 
Mineral Society and additional 
community sponsors. Food 
from High Springs Orchard 
and Bakery will be available for 
purchase. For more informa-tion, call 352-273-2064.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To 
ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. 
CORRECTION
In the story that ran Thursday 
under the headline “124 votes make history,” it was incorrect-ly stated this was the first time a minority political party had won the executive ticket since 1999. It is the first time a new minority political party has won a majority of the election seats since that year.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editor Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith, Logan Ladnyk,   
  Shari Linn, Kendall Prior     
    
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Amanda Churchill, 
  Bailey Gaul, Eva Sailly, Gabriel Skura,   
  Jessica Samuelson, Jordan Thurn,   
  Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Ian Shuker, Blair Smith,    
  Haylee Tuason
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes
 Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
info via Gatorwell<13 13-14 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 >655000
4500
4000
35003000
2500
20001500
1000
500
0Diagnosis of HIV  infection in 2013 by age group
7000
6500
6000
5500
164 4016707132
6911
5491
430842844394
3335
2193
1180
916 THEY ARE EXPANDING 
RESEARCH TO TEST AGAINST OTHER STRAINS.
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Florida scientists have made 
a signiﬁ  cant advance in the ﬁ  ght 
against HIV.
The Scripps Research Institute in 
Jupiter announced the creation of a 
new drug that blocked repeated 
doses of S-HIV, a form of HIV, in-fection in monkeys.
The study, published online 
Feb. 18 in the journal Nature, is the outcome of almost two decades of research and experiments led by professor Michael Farzan.
“HIV has such a diverse popu-
lation,” said Matthew Gardner, a research associate involved in the study. 
This means there are multiple 
strains of the virus, so the extent to which an anti-HIV drug covers these various strains is a crucial fac-tor, Gardner said.
Now that the drug has been 
proved effective against one strain in the monkeys, the next step is to test it against other strains, Gardner said. In the lab, however, the drug has blocked more than 70 isolated strains of HIV-1, HIV-2 and SIV, ac-cording to the study.Because of its potency, the drug 
could be a possible alternative to vaccines, Gardner said.
Gardner used a lock analogy to 
explain how the drug works.
Once a virus enters the body, 
it needs to ﬁ  nd healthy cells to in-fect. HIV must ﬁ  nd two “keys,” or receptors located on the outside of cells, in order to infect them. The new drug mimics these two “keys,” ﬁ  nds the virus and ﬁ  ts into the vi-rus’ “lock.” The virus’ “keyholes” are now occupied, therefore block-ing it from ﬁ  nding the natural keys 
on the cell it was looking to infect.
“Another goal would be to show 
that we can use it in a therapeutic 
context — somebody who already has an infection,” Gardner said. “Can it be used to continuously suppress the virus to make sure the individual can stay healthy?”
There are plenty of hurdles to 
cross until then, he said.
Mobeen Rathore, professor and 
director at UF’s Center for HIV/AIDS Research, Education and Ser-vice in Jacksonville, said the center aims to get involved with the re-search if it reaches phase-one tri-als — small clinical trials involving humans.
“We are very hopeful that the 
product will go into phase-one tri-als,” Rathore said. “It holds prom-ise.”Fla researchers announce drug that blocks HIV in monkeys
Information via the CDCTheresa Lowe, the executive direc-
tor of the Alachua County Coalition 
for the Homeless and Hungry, said 
if any are left it will be a little easier 
for them to move compared with the 
move from Tent City, another place 
in Gainesville where the homeless of-ten stayed.
“Most of the people staying on the 
plaza don’t have a lot of stuff with them,” she said. “The people in Tent 
City had their lives around them, but 
these only have one or two bags.”
Since Grace opened last summer, 
an influx of homeless relocated from the southeast and downtown areas into the shelter and a new tent city on the outskirts of the complex, called 
Dignity Village.
Lowe said she doesn’t expect a 
huge number of people to come out 
to the shelter after renovations begin because of the decreased number of 
homeless downtown.
Capt. Helmerson said once Oel-
rich Construction, Inc. erects fences around the area, it is their responsi-
bility to monitor it, but if there are 
any straggling homeless, GPD will be 
ready to respond.
Some homeless who are left, Lowe 
said, might be there because they have mental illness.
“It’s scary to change,” she said. 
“However bad it is where they are, 
they know what’s there — they know 
what to expect.”
If the homeless do return after 
the plaza is finished, they won’t be barred from the new space.
“The goal isn’t to kick people out, 
but to make everyone feel welcome,” 
Nathalie McCrate said. “We want to 
make the plaza welcoming to every-
one — parents, kids, students, even 
the homeless will be able to enjoy our new space.”When Garron, 81, attended UF, the Honor Apples were 
commonplace.
Jenna Cohen, Florida Cicerone and tradition keeper co-
chair, said these types of traditions are remembered more 
than classes or the long nights spent in Library West.
Cohen, 21, said common traditions can serve as con-
versation starters with other UF alumni.  
As a first-generation UF student, Cohen said the tradi-
tions have helped her feel close to other UF graduates.
“It’s nice to still be able to feel you’re connected,” the 
anthropology and economics junior said.
Although the Honor Apples aren’t found around cam-
pus anymore, the university’s honor code still exists, and 
students sign it on most exams.
The honor code was adopted as a campus-wide policy 
in 1916, according to the class of 2016’s F Book.
Alto Straughn, who graduated from UF in 1957 with 
his master’s in animal science, said the honor system was widespread when he was a student.
While at UF, he said that the honor system and its ap-
ples probably influenced him positively, but he doesn’t 
think of them often. Instead, he focuses on Florida sports.
“I like the tradition of winning football games,” 
Straughn, 80, said, laughing about his favorite UF pas-time.
Garron said he remembers the apples well. He was 
proud to go to a university that trusted him to be honest.
It was common for professors to step out of the room 
during exams, he said. They trusted that students wouldn’t cheat, just as they assumed that students wouldn’t steal Honor Apples.
Shao and Cohen said they are unsure of when and 
why the Honor Apples tradition died. The class of 2016 “F Book” does not indicate the year or reason for the tradi-tion’s end.
Through the honor code and its apples, the university 
taught students to have integrity, Garron said.
“Honor meant an awful lot,” he said.4, ALLIGATOR � FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Members of the UF faculty senate cast their vote to pass a resolution opposing concealed carry Thursday in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The resolution was overwhelmingly approved. 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Anthony Oansford, 23, splits one end of a copper wire into a head to hook on a rope, which allows the wire to be pulled easier. Oansford was prepping the wire to run electrical outlets on Lot 10 for the farmers market relocation.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured is a rendering of how Bo Diddley Community Plaza will look after an about $1.86 million renovation. The plaza will close March 1, and renovations are expected to take one year to complete.
Professors worry that allowing student to carry guns is unsafe
student mental health. The resolu-tion cited the danger that comes with easy access to guns when students are stressed and around professors.
It read that dormitories would 
become unsafe when students are under the influence, and the responsibility of protecting lives should not shift from trained law enforcement officers to untrained private individuals.
Bruce Welt, a UF agriculture 
and biological engineering pro-fessor, was one of the eight who voted against the resolution. Votes were shown by holding up a yel-low slip of paper.
He used a PowerPoint to ex-
plain his views.
“I understand the spirit of this 
amendment, but there is nothing stopping someone from driving on campus and shooting,” Welt said.
Responsible adults follow the 
rules, he said, but terrorists and criminals don’t. Concealed carry would allow students and faculty to protect themselves.Maggie Temple-Smith, a UF 
law professor, took the micro-phone next and said she was con-cerned about the proliferation of guns on campus.
“If I can be sure of expert shots, 
even with panic, I would feel more inclined to vote against it,” she said. 
A shooter will not be deterred 
knowing some of the audience may be armed, and it could be dangerous if students are stressed, intoxicated or angry at teachers.
Welt rebuttled, arguing that 
more guns do not mean more crimes. Guns would be used in emergencies as a method of pre-
paredness and self-defense.
“A gun-free zone equals 100 
percent exposure,” he said.FACULTY , from page 1APPLES , from page 1Students sign honor 
code before exams Plaza will be closed for about a year
DIDDLEY , from page 1
“I understand the spirit 
of this amendment, but 
there is nothing stopping 
someone from driving on 
campus and shooting.”
Bruce Welt
UF agriculture and biological 
engineering professorFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
LOCAL
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
Twenty-four homes. One common living 
room.
That’s the setup for Gainesville Cohous-
ing, a Northwest Gainesville communal 
neighborhood in the making. The multi-
generational community is seeking younger 
families to fill up its eight remaining spots, founder Brooks Nelson said.  
“We’re looking for people who share our 
vision,” said Nelson, who will move into the community with his wife Jeanine. He envi-sions a tight-knit, environmentally friendly place to live.
Construction was supposed to start in March, but is now expected to begin in Sep-tember, Nelson said. It will take between six and nine months to complete.
Residents will live in separate, smaller-
than-average homes and share a common house featuring a dining room, laundry ma-
chines and guest cottages. Smaller homes 
leave smaller footprints, Nelson said.
“The common house is kind of the heart 
of the community,” he said. “It’s meant to be used pretty extensively by the numbers. It tends to be thought of as an extension of your own living room.”
This is exactly what Burt and Gale 
Kempner, 67 and 70, respectively, have been 
looking for. The Kempners, whose family 
members live up north, are looking to ex-pand their family in the South.
“Every now and then, we would go to a 
search engine and put in ‘Florida cohous-ing’ and never get anything,” Burt Kempner said. “A year and a half ago, it changed.”
To join, a family pays an initial $250 and 
attends a meeting. After five meetings, the rest of the members unanimously vote to ac-cept the family into the community. An ad-ditional $7,500 guarantees them a spot and goes toward the house payment — between $125,000 and $200,000 depending on size.
Cohousing is nothing new to a group of 
80 UF and Santa Fe College students living together at the student-run Cooperative Liv-
ing Organization. Located behind Chipotle 
on West University Avenue, the dorm-style housing charges $350 per month and in-cludes a meal plan, water, utilities and park-ing.
The students maintain the building and 
help run the organization in return.
“What was most interesting and appeal-
ing to me was the fact that you get that fam-ily aspect,” said Mimi Kurpier, the commu-nity president.
The 21-year-old UF architecture junior 
has lived there for about three years.
“Nowadays it’s hard with everybody 
invested in their own lives,” Kurpier said. “If you live in an apartment, you wouldn’t necessarily talk to your neighbors. That’s 
the most important advantage of a place like 
this.”
Gainesville Cohousing looking for young families to fill spots
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Wailin’ Ukelele
Members of the Ukelele Club of Gainesville stand on the steps of 
the Hippodrome State Theatre and perform the song “Stand by Me,” as one of the frank conference’s porch concerts Thursday around noon.
 PRIDE AWARENESS MONTH KICKS OFF MARCH 16.
ZOE SESSUMS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Warriors in the making came out to the Reitz 
Union on Thursday.
Casting calls for Pride Awareness Month’s third 
annual fashion show brought hopeful models in front 
of designers and stylists in the Reitz Union Matthews 
Suite.
The 15th annual Pride Awareness Month begins 
March 16, and the show — themed “Warriors” — is 
April 2.
Eight designers will be featured, five of whom 
are local. One of the designers was previously on the Lifetime series “Project Runway,” but that’s as much as the staff will reveal.
Kevin Huynh, Pride Awareness Month fashion show director, said the event will showcase people who don’t feel they fit in.
“Clothes are our armor,” said the 23-year-old UF 
public relations senior. 
He said it’s also a chance for the community to 
come together in support of equality.
“The more you reach out,” said Huynh, “the more 
talent you get.”
Hiram Martinez-Cabrera, Pride Awareness Month 
executive director, was scribbling on papers next to a pile of model applications.
“It is my job to make sure everything happens 
smoothly,” the 21-year-old UF public relations junior said.
Pride Awareness Month is an annual monthlong 
series of events that highlights the lives of  individu-als within the UF LGBTQ+ community. The theme 
for this year’s awareness month is “trailblazers.”
Students interested in strutting the runway can go 
to the final casting call in the Matthews Suite from 10 
a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday. Pride finds fashion warriors at Reitz
ELENA CASTELLO
Alligator Contributing Writer
The audience sat in a pitch-black 
room on the third floor of the Reitz Union on Thursday night watching a video that recounted the troubles and brutalities the Baha’i people have en-dured for decades.
As a minority religious group in 
Iran that is persecuted by the Islamic 
government, the Baha’i people have 
lived in solidarity not knowing if rela-tives would be arrested or killed.
About 50 audience members 
watched some of the stories of the more than 200 people who were ex-ecuted in the five years following the Islamic Revolution and discussed the animosity between the Muslims and Baha’i people.
“It’s gut-wrenching to know that 
this is going on. Many people in America are ignorant to the situa-tion,” said Jaclyn Krantzler, a 19-year-
old UF statistics and political science 
freshman.  
As an interfaith ambassador, 
Krantzler said she wants to bridge the gap and promote acceptance between religions.
“This is a powerful film. It’s ex-
ceedingly depressing that things like this can happen in this day and age,” 
UF professor Winston Nagan said, as 
he answered questions in a panel dis-cussion following the film. “Second, it shows the strength of the human spirit.”
Tate Quinones, a 22-year-old UF 
psychology and anthropology senior, also voiced her opinion. As a Baha’i herself, she told the audience that no Muslim person she’s ever spoken with agrees with what is happening in Iran.
“They would consider it against 
the faith and find it appalling,” she said. Film shows brutality against Baha’i 
 A VIDEO SHOWN AT THE EVENT IS 
SET TO BE IN DRIVER’S ED CLASSES.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Jim Rocca fought back tears as he spoke 
about his son in prison on Thursday.
About 100 people listened to Rocca de-
scribe the heartache he felt when he learned 
his son Daniel killed someone while driving 
under the influence.
This was one part of the annual Staying 
Alive on I-75 and Florida’s Roadways’ event hosted by the Dori Slosberg Foundation. Fam-
ilies of traffic accident victims and representa-tives from multiple law enforcement agencies, including Gainesville Police and the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office, attended the event Thursday morning at the Hilton University of Florida Conference Center.
Rep. Irv Slosberg attended the afternoon 
presentation. He created the foundation after his daughter, Dori, was one of five teenagers killed in a car crash.
Tara Kirschner, the executive director of 
the foundation, said the event was designed to not only raise awareness about safe driving, but to show appreciation for the work of law enforcement.
“We just so greatly appreciate everyone 
coming here, supporting families, law en-forcement and all of our safety partners,” said Kirschner, who joined the foundation in part because her sister was killed in a New York traffic accident.
Officers from the Florida Highway Patrol 
and Maria Coady, whose son Thomas passed away in a December 2014 motorcycle accident, spoke about the loss of loved ones resulting from traffic accidents and the importance of highway safety.“I think Tom would be OK with us be-
ing here,” Coady told the crowd. “I know he would have done it for us.”
Slosberg and Kirschner played a short 
video that features interviews with Rocca and another inmate who was found guilty of traf-fic homicide. In the video, Slosberg narrates two incidents where a teenager was impris-
oned because they drove under the influence 
and were in fatal car accidents. They plan to introduce it in driver’s education this summer.
“You just can’t believe it will happen to 
you until it does,” Slosberg told the crowd. “This video is going to save lives.”
Dori foundation hosts event to warn against drunken driving“It’s gut-wrenching to know 
that this is going on.”
Jaclyn Krantzler
statistics and political science freshmanReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorialFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITORSpring Break couldn’t have come at a better time. We’re 
burned out, overworked and in need of a break from drink-
ing this much coffee all the time.  
We’re looking forward to a Spring Break all of us stu-
dents deserve — late nights out, late mornings in, drinks on the beach and who knows what else. While it may not qualify as “just what the doctor ordered,” we’re tempted to 
contradict what little we know about medicine in favor of 
an entire week spent alternating between relaxing laziness and hedonistic abandon.
With that, here’s an extra-special edition of thank-god-
it’s-ﬁ  nally-here…
Darts and Laurels
Big news this week: The Federal Communications Com-
mission ﬁ  nally made a decision in its long-awaited rul-
ing on net neutrality. Should the Internet be regulated 
as a public utility, or come under the control and discretion of giant telecom companies? Advocates on both sides of the 
issue waited eagerly for the decision. 
Thursday, the FCC ruled in favor of net neutrality. Be-
cause the Internet is, without exaggeration, the most power-
ful invention since the printing press, we feel it’s important to 
keep it out of the hands of those whose self-interested motives 
would make it worse for the rest of us. Here’s a LAUREL to 
the FCC for choosing to protect the integrity of the Internet.
We had a special visitor this week. Multi-million dollar 
Renaissance man and Riff Raff impersonator James Franco 
came to speak Wednesday night — did anybody else notice 
he arrived right before we all become... Spring Breakers? Get it? No? OK.
While we relished the opportunity to have the celebrat-
ed actor and author come speak at UF, we can’t help but feel embarrassed by the low-quality questions students 
asked him. So we’re giving a FLART to the whole situa-
tion — LAUREL to Franco, DART to the question askers. 
Come on, y’all.
For the whole context on this next one, take a glance 
at page seven. Yeah, that’s a letter from UF alumnus Sen. 
Marco Rubio, who plans to really ramp up the ﬁ  ght against 
sexual assault on college campuses. He’s proposing legisla-tion which would create a standard apparatus to deal with sexual assaults for universities nationwide. Among other 
things, these would require universities to post statistics 
on sexual assault in their area from the previous year and would ban preferential treatment to student subgroups — i.e. star athletes. 
We’re not always down with Rubio’s politics, but we’re 
deﬁ  nitely supportive of this. Even though it’s a blatant bid 
to get support for a presidential run, we’re going to give a 
LAUREL to Rubio.
We’d also like to give a LAUREL to Access Party: What 
y’all did was amazing and we’re looking forward to all the great things you’ll bring.
That’s all, folks. Have a fun and, by God, SAFE Spring 
Break.
179 TOTAL VOTES82% YES
18% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgThursday’s question: Do you approve of 
the election results?Today’s question: Is the dress blue and black or white 
and gold?Raccoon Lagoon: Spring Break adventure
Spring Break is a storied, cherished tradition of he-
donism, drunken idiocy and regrettable hookups. Shown so artfully in director Harmony Korine’s ﬁ  lm 
“Spring Breakers” — which starred James Franco, UF’s most recent distinguished guest speaker — Florida is the 
deﬁ  nitive Spring Break destination for college students. 
For those grappling with existential fears and anxieties — or more likely, for those who never had any to begin with — Florida is one of the world’s premiere destinations to throw yourself into an ocean of pills, thrills and bellyaches.
As anyone who attended ﬁ  eld trips through a Florida 
public school and/or religious youth group can tell you, our ﬁ  ne state has the widest assortment of family-friendly theme parks the U.S. has to offer. Universal Studios. Dis-
ney World. The Holy Land, for those of us who ﬁ  nd the 
teachings of Jesus Christ to be a little more compelling than the secular joys of the Rock ‘n’ Roller Coaster. However, if these attractions are so great, why has not a single one of my friends mentioned theme parks in their Spring Break plans?
All of these theme parks are perfectly ﬁ  ne, respectable 
institutions in their own right, but are they enough to con-tinue to lure in college-aged consumers? I know I speak 
for many UF students when I say that I spent much of my 
childhood in various Orlando theme parks. But many of the thrills I experienced there in my youth have dissipat-ed on recent outings. Halloween Horror Nights, suppos-edly the peak attraction for young people seeking thrills, couldn’t do it for me, even with a Bubba Keg’s worth of vodka and cranberry juice in my system.
Even though my drunken Halloween Horror Nights 
experience did nothing for me, it did lead me on to an 
idea. Kids love theme parks because they present a sense 
of danger: At the age of 6, one doesn’t have the life experi-ence or comprehension of the American legal system to un-derstand that the roller coaster probably won’t kill them. Once those kids grow up, that healthy fear of death is often replaced with a love of alcohol. Now, in my estimation, the theme park industry’s refusal to cater directly to the interests of college students represents a large chunk of lost proﬁ  t. If there were to be a theme park that combined a childish sense of fear of the attractions with the nihilistic thrill of drink-ing, I genuinely believe that this 
theoretical park would become a 
ﬁ  rst-class destination for college students.
As such, I would like to pres-
ent my proposal for such a park: 
Raccoon Lagoon. You know, like Toon Lagoon, but with raccoons. And I’m not talking about a raccoon mascot — Raccoon Lagoon would be the world’s ﬁ  rst interactive rac-coon zoo and aquatic theme park. 
Upon entry to the park, customers would be treated to 
a reﬁ  ned wine and cheese gala. Once suitably drunk and full of rich delicacies, the patrons would be forcibly thrown into the wet, wild and anarchic world of Raccoon Lagoon. Once in the park, visitors would have to rely solely on their cunning and wit to enjoy the park without contracting ra-bies or having their food stolen. Between rides like Striped Tail Typhoon and Bandit’s Barge Ride, attendees can enjoy a relatively relaxed raccoon rest at Rascal’s Roundabout, 
the local saloon. Once there, visitors will be served pitchers 
of beer and crab rangoons by trained raccoons who have not submitted to the anarchy of the outside world. Spit-toons and balloons will adorn Rascal’s Roundabout, all a prelude to the chaos and hullabaloo that waits outside.
After this article is published, I am anticipating vast in-
terest from enterprising UF students looking to make their name in theme parks centered on nocturnal mammals. If you would like to reach me to discuss capital investments 
and sponsorship opportunities for Raccoon Lagoon, please 
do not hesitate to email the Alligator with the email sub-ject line “We Demand Raccoon Lagoon.” In the meantime, I’ll be dreaming about such a Shangri-La. A hypothetical Spring Break trip to Raccoon Lagoon gets a 10 out of 10, would do again rating from me.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science junior. His column 
appears on Fridays.
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Combating sexual assault on campuses
Every American will need access to some 
form of higher education in the 21st century. 
Ensuring this is possible will require lower-ing costs, expanding options and changing the way students pay for degrees. But these 
reforms will be of little use if students don’t 
feel safe on college campuses.
Campus sexual assault is a grave concern 
for many students and families today, and for good reason. Too many lives are ruined by a failure to deal with these crimes efﬁ  ciently, fairly and consistently. Thus, to provide a higher education experience that is safe and accessible to all, I have partnered with a bipar-
tisan group of senators to propose legislation 
combating campus sexual assaults.
Our legislation focuses on three principal 
goals: empowering victims with the tools they need to achieve justice and begin healing, in-creasing transparency from colleges and uni-versities, and strengthening accountability for institutions that fail to do their part to provide a safe learning environment.
Since no legislation can totally eliminate 
sexual violence, our bill begins by recognizing that these occurrences are serious crimes, not mere disciplinary matters. Serious crimes are best pursued by well-trained police forces, not by university personnel. Our bill will require every institution to enter into agreements with 
local law enforcement agencies so that serious 
accusations receive the serious consideration they deserve.
While law enforcement are best equipped 
to handle allegations of criminal behavior, colleges and universities also must meet their responsibilities to empower the public with relevant information. Our legislation requires that every institution post on their website 
the number of reported assaults, disciplinary 
proceedings, and referrals to law enforcement that have occurred within the past year.
Any school that offers federal student aid 
would also be required to participate in a stan-dardized, anonymous online survey of their students that would measure sexual violence and harassment experiences on campus. Like ofﬁ  cial university data, these ﬁ  ndings would 
be made available online.
This inﬂ  ow of information would empow-
er students and parents to choose the safest 
possible learning environment and account for risks. Colleges and universities would also be held to a higher standard of accountability if they fail to meet these reporting require-ments.
While the bill does establish several impor-
tant new requirements for institutions, we are 
careful to avoid imposing unnecessary costs. 
Smaller colleges are permitted to pool resourc-es with nearby schools, and institutions will have the option of partnering with nonproﬁ  ts and victims advocacy organizations. Grants will also be made available from the Depart-ment of Justice.
A central aim of our efforts must be to less-
en the devastation that assaults have on the 
lives of victims. By increasing resources avail-
able to victims, we can reduce the possibility that any survivor of assault feels compelled to suffer their burden silently. Providing a safe environment for reporting and discussing as-sault, while also placing authority in the hands of the victim, is crucial to mitigating the life-long pain caused by these crimes.
To this end, our legislation would require 
every campus to establish a speciﬁ  ed individ-ual to whom victims can speak privately. That person would not report these encounters but would rather educate the victim on all avail-able options, from modifying his or her class schedule to ﬁ  ling a police report.
While sexual assault can all too often ruin the lives of victims, our bill also recognizes that wrongful convictions and accusations can inﬂ  ict similar devastation. By ensuring better 
training of university staff and closer part-
nerships with local law enforcement, we will improve how these cases are investigated and prosecuted and will protect the rights of the accused to due process.
Finally, fair treatment also means ensuring 
that no students are given special treatment, even if they can throw a ball 80 yards down a ﬁ  eld or shoot a basketball from half court. Un-
der our legislation, schools would be prohib-
ited from providing any unique disciplinary treatment to a subgroup of students.
Of course, no single bill will completely 
solve the problem of campus sexual assault, and many of the answers must be found in changes to culture rather than in legislation. We cannot begin to make progress, however, until we empower students and families and 
ensure that every case is treated with the atten-
tion, sensitivity, and concern that it deserves. This bill would accomplish these aims. In do-ing so, I believe it will turn the tide against campus sexual assault.
Sen. Marco Rubio
U.S. representative
Letter to the Editor
Happy last day before Spring Break, Gators!
If you’ve made it to 
the end of the week, I 
applaud your dedication 
for not skipping classes, work and/or general re-sponsibilities. Get ready to do the opposite of that for the next week. You deserve it.
Now, Spring Break is viewed as 
an inherently sexy time. Sun, alcohol, scantily clad bodies and a lack of in-
hibitions that only no class for a week 
can induce. So I sat down to brain-storm the hottest places to get it on and to get off.
But, nothing… came to me — ha. 
Instead, I realized all these places we think of as sexy really aren’t. Maybe it’s the sunscreen fumes getting to us.
Here’s this instead: a roundup of 
the least sexy places to have some fun in the sun.
If Florida’s known for anything — 
no, not Disney World, although that is the place where dreams come true — it’s our beaches. Easily the top Spring Break destination, having sex on the beach is one of those things that you can ﬁ  nd on almost any sexual bucket 
list.
I just don’t get it, though. Maybe 
I’m biased because I don’t like the 
beach much to begin with, but it seems like you’d be asking to get sand in places where it shouldn’t be. It’s sweaty and sticky in a bad way, and in a very public area — seriously, kids go to the beach; have you no shame? 
Sex on the beach gets you one very 
painful sunburn that puts you out of commission for the rest of the week.
If you’re looking for a smaller 
body of water to, uh, get wet in, pools and hot tubs are out, too. Water wash-es away natural lubrication, so you’ll actually get the opposite of wet. Plus: bacteria. Pool sex causes a weird infec-
tion from getting chlorine in all your 
sensitive bits. And it doesn’t help that it’s still too cold to go swimming with-out being covered in some very un-sexy goosebumps.
And when you want 
to wash off after all your fun, don’t think of doing it in the shower. You’re 
probably still a little 
drunk, which makes an already slippery setting even more dangerous. I can’t even keep my bal-
ance when I’m shaving, let alone while having sex. One person is always cold left out of the stream of water, and do-ing anything on your knees results in 
being waterboarded. Shower sex will 
lead to one broken arm from slipping and a weird cover-up story to explain to your family.
Which brings me to sex at home. 
Not everyone gets to go somewhere exciting over break, but even those heading back to stay with their par-ents deserve a little love. Except, your 
parents are always home and go to 
bed at 10 p.m., and with your bed-room right next to theirs, they can to-tally hear you.
No amount of home-cooked meals 
is worth the awkward, very silent, please-thrust-less-because-you’re-making-the-bed-rock hookup you’ll have. Sex at home gets you a tense 
family argument and a “we’re not 
mad, just disappointed,” from your mom.
What are we left with? Nothing re-
ally, except the fact that I’m an incred-ibly boring 20-something-year-old who has no sense of adventure.
Which is why I’m leaving you 
with this: Every place has its cons, but 
you’re having sex — do you actually 
care? No, and I’m not here to stop you from doing what will make you and your partner happy.
So screw it, folks, and screw wher-
ever you please. Just do said screwing safely. And drink plenty of water and wear sunscreen — otherwise, think of all the weird tan lines you’ll get.
Now enjoy your week, y’all. 
Spring Break fo’ ever.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism 
junior. Her column appears on Fridays.Typical Spring Break 
locales have no sex appealColumn
Whether we want to admit 
it, American voters estab-lish arbitrary litmus tests 
for political candidates. These may ultimately disqualify certain indi-
viduals from ever holding ofﬁ  ce. As 
a member of a religious minority, one of these qualiﬁ  cations stings: the asinine requirement that we have a Christian president.
I bring this up because, once again, President 
Barack Obama’s religious beliefs are being called into question. This time, it’s Wisconsin governor, and likely Republican presidential candidate, 
Scott Walker. When asked whether Obama is a 
Christian, Walker responded he didn’t know.
In Walker’s defense, he chastised the media for 
asking the question, but the fact remains: Six years after Obama’s election, the press and politicians are still questioning his religious beliefs and back-ground. It’s getting a little trite, but there’s far more to it than the repetitive nature of the question.
The six-year-long obsession with the presi-
dent’s religion is especially disconcerting, because the subtext appears to say if you aren’t a Chris-tian, you absolutely shouldn’t serve as president. What’s more disconcerting is the large number of Americans who actively subscribe to this belief. Freedom of religion is a founding tenet of the U.S., yet we still apply a religiosity test to presidential candidates, and it’s growing unnerving.
Is it not enough to judge a presidential candi-
date based on how well he or she could perform the duties required of the ofﬁ  ce? The belief among some that a president must subscribe to Christian-ity is downright offensive, and it’s something we should strive to end.
Thankfully, those who demand Christian 
presidential candidates or desire a theocracy are blocked by a constitution that guarantees the separation of church and state. But these lines are 
certainly blurred when you consider legislatures 
across the country regularly have religious lead-ers provide invocations during legislative ses-sions and that the president is expected to attend the National Prayer Breakfast each year.
It may all seem a bit overblown, and perhaps 
as a religious minority myself, I’m reading too much into the desires of some Americans, but re-cent poll data indicates otherwise. Public Policy 
Polling released a national poll this week and found 94 percent of those supporting 
Republican Mike Huckabee for pres-ident want Christianity established as the national religion. Overall, 57 percent of all Republicans would 
like to establish Christianity as a na-
tional religion.
A majority of those who identify 
as Republican want to establish an ofﬁ  cial religion in a country founded 
on the freedom of religion. That is terrifying.
What makes the U.S. great is our diversity. Re-
ligious diversity is included in this. While we may be predominantly Christian, we are also a country 
of Jews, Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs, athe-
ists and other religious — or irreligious — beliefs. We cannot and should not let Christians seeking an ofﬁ  cial religion terrify or vilify others for their religious beliefs.
The ﬁ  rst English colonists to the New World 
sought religious freedom from the persecution they faced in England, yet hundreds of years later, we continue to ignore the reasons why many set-
tled in what would become the U.S. We can laugh 
off the religious fundamentalists trying to impose national religion on 300 million Americans, but when you look at it from the perspective of a reli-gious minority — especially one that’s faced enor-mous persecution in the past — it’s hard to ignore the desires of a few extremists.
There’s no questioning the presence of ram-
pant Islamophobia among many in this country. 
After Obama defended Islam and stated people 
— not religions — are responsible for terrorism, the right wing freaked. In a moment of awful word vomit, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani claimed the president doesn’t love Amer-ica, and once again started the debate of where Obama’s loyalties lie.
Instead of bashing the president for doing his 
best to prevent widespread Islamophobia in the 
U.S., we should question those who want to im-
pose a religious order on our own country. When you consider it, what’s the difference between those supporting a theocracy in the U.S. or a the-ocracy in the Middle East aside from religious be-liefs? Nothing. That’s why signiﬁ  cant support for a theocratic America should terrify you.
Joel Mendelson is a second-year UF political 
campaigning graduate student. His column appears 
on Fridays.Beware those who support the 
establishment of national religionColumn
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.org
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org8, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
CAMPUS
SHANNON DUDZINSKI
Alligator Contributing Writer
A four-legged, hooved UF Health 
Shands Rehab Hospital volunteer is 
now in a national hall of fame.
Magic, an 8-year-old American Min-
iature horse, was inducted into the U.S. Equestrian Federation’s Horse Stars Hall of Fame as a humanitarian for her inspirational impact on the public.
She works for Gentle Carousel Min-
iature Therapy Horses, which has a partnership with UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital. The hospital treats patients who have suffered traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries, burns, amputations, strokes or major joint re-placements.
It is also the training hospital for the 
therapy horses.
Amy Kinsey, a UF Health recreation 
therapist, said Magic helps patients as they work on standing, reaching, walk-ing and communicating during therapy.
“We have patients that haven’t 
showed any verbal expression since 
they have been here but end up smiling after interacting with the horse,” Kinsey 
said.
Debbie Garcia-Bengochea, Magic’s 
owner and education and media direc-tor of Gentle Carousel, said all of the horses do amazing work, but Magic tends to be in the right place at the right time.
“She seems to find the person in the 
room that needs someone the most,” Garcia-Bengochea said.
Magic travels around the country to 
visit communities in need, like New-town, Connecticut, after the Sandy Hook tragedy. More than 600 people crowded around the Newtown library just to see Magic, Garcia-Bengochea 
said.
Magic was named one of Time Maga-
zine’s Top 10 Heroic Animals, one of six 
awards Magic has earned. She also has her own book, “The Power of Magic,” published in 2014.
Magic spent last Christmas at the 
Ronald McDonald House, and she spent New Years Eve donning a tuxedo shirt while visiting UF Health Shands 
Rehab patients.
“Rehab is so hard,” Garcia-Bengo-
chea said. “To be able to have some-
thing that is so interesting and distract-ing to allow patients to do something they didn’t think they can do is what it is all about.”Therapy horse works her magic, inducted into hall of fameJACOB BRAUN
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Gainesville native and actor is 
giving back to cancer patients at an 
upcoming show.
Jarod Thompson, who starred in 
season five of AMC’s “The Walking Dead,” will kick off his nationwide tour March 6 at The Jam. A portion of the ticket sales and all of the raffle ticket sales will go to the American Cancer Society. 
Thompson, who played Officer 
Tanaka in the popular television se-ries, graduated from Buchholz High School in 2004. At his hometown show, Clint Fairfield will open fol-lowed by The Ups. Thompson will close the night with his own set, which will also feature Stevie Benz, said Rachel Richards, his media rep-resentative.
Throughout the night there will 
be raffles of “The Walking Dead” merchandise and tickets to the Walk-er Stalker Con in Orlando this June.Thompson is a guitarist at heart, 
but he also plays drums, bass and keys, Richards said. She said Thompson aims to use “The Walk-ing Dead” and his musical perfor-mances to create a platform of sup-port for cancer patients, survivors and their families.
Jam co-owner Blake Briand said he hopes the bands get to play for a full house.
“Jarod has done a great job set-
ting up his event,” Briand said.
Doors will open at 7:30 p.m. at 
The Jam, at 817 W. University Ave. Tickets are $10 in advance and $15 the day of. Tickets are available at on.fb.me/1BDG6R8.
GNV native, ‘Walking Dead’ actor to perform at The Jam
Courtesy to the Alligator
Magic, the 8-year-old American Miniature horse, stands in a field while on a walk. Magic, a therapy horse, was inducted into the U.S. Equestrian Foundation’s Horse Stars Hall of Fame for her inspirational impact on the public.
 THE RACE IS APRIL 22.
ZEE KRSTIC
Alligator Contributing Writer
Runners will light up the night at this 
year’s Midnight Fun Run.
RecSports ran a pre-registration spe-
cial Wednesday for those with Gator 1 
Cards, drawing in a record 1,500 reg-
istrants in just 24 hours, said Marty 
Dempsey, the event coordinator and coordinator for facility operations under UF’s Department of Recreational Sports. Regular registration for the April 22 race will open March 23 allowing runners to participate in the 5K with the included breakfast and T-shirt for $15.  
In April 2014, the event grew slowly 
from 1,000 participants to 1,400 before booming at 2,000, Dempsey said.
“Word of mouth definitely caught 
on,” Dempsey said. 
He described the end-of-semester event as a cumulative celebration. “Whether it be a student going from freshman to sophomore, junior to senior or senior to graduate, Midnight Fun Run is a way for people to celebrate this tran-sition in a very healthy way.”
RecSports doesn’t intend on placing 
a limit on the event’s registrants as of now, but there are still two months to go, Dempsey said.
“There may be a time where we need 
to ensure that everyone has the quality experience but also remains very safe,” he said, and added that these are un-charted waters for RecSports.
Alycia Loriz, a UF environmental en-
gineering sophomore, has always loved running and took the first chance she got to participate in the Midnight Fun Run.
“I’m definitely excited to see how 
many thousands of us show up in April,” Loriz, 20, said. “I haven’t done a race or run here on campus, let alone at night or with thousands of people. It’s 
like a party.”Midnight Fun Run draws 
record participants in 24 hrs KENDALL PRIOR
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF Levin College of Law is highly 
ranked for its affordability and percentage of 
hires and promotions.
Levin was ranked No. 3 in the nation for 
its low cost of tuition in 2014, according to a National Law Journal report published this week. It is No. 23 for the number of alumni 
promoted to partner and No. 50 for its per-
cent of students hired by the country’s top 250 firms.
St. John’s University, University of Illi-
nois, Chicago-Kent College of Law, Univer-sity of Pennsylvania, Fordham University and University of Kansas also tied for the 23rd spot.
George Dawson, UF law’s interim dean, 
said he believes UF is a great place for stu-dents who aspire to succeed in the world of law.
“Students who come here have the op-
portunity to do well and join the big firms,” Dawson said.
Brett Roth, an associate attorney at Matt 
Hellman, P.A., and 2012 UF law alumnus, said he was focused on working, learning skills and making money while he was a UF law student.
Rob Birrenkott, assistant dean for career 
development, said the quality of graduates is one of the college’s sources of pride.
“And that’s a fantastic feather in our cap,” 
he said.
However, students do not have to mea-
sure their success by becoming partner at a firm, he said.
UF graduates are known for being lead-
ers, whether partner at a firm or judge in a courtroom, he said. That and the great price are what prove UF law school’s greatness.High affordability rankings for 
the UF Levin College of Law“She seems to find the 
person in the room that needs 
someone the most”
Debbie Garcia-Bengochea
Magic’s owner
The top five go-to law schools of 
2015, according to the 
National Law Journal:
Harvard Law School
Georgetown University Law Center
New York University School of Law
University of Michigan Law School
University of Texas School of LawFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
JANUARY/FEBRUARY
Major: Advertising
Graduation: May 2017
  Salesperson of the Month THEY WERE ALL $50 BILLS.
EMILY COCHRANE
Alligator Staff Writer ecochrane@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a man 
early Thursday after he reportedly tried 
to use a counterfeit bill and had a crack pipe.
Shortly before 1 a.m., Detron Howell, 
28, walked into the Downtown Conve-nience Store, located at 40 SW Second St., and asked the clerk for change for a $50 bill, according to a police report. When the clerk realized the bill was fake and asked about it, Howell left the store and left the bill behind. Police arrested him moments later near the store, according to the report.
When police searched him, they found 
a glass crack pipe in his pants pocket, ac-cording to the report. After his arrest, he told police he owned the crack pipe, but said he didn’t know the $50 bill was fake.
Police arrested Howell on charges 
of using counterfeit money and posses-sion of drug paraphernalia. Ofﬁ  cers took him to the Alachua County Jail where 
he remained as of press time in lieu of a 
$12,000 bond.
      
Gainesville Police arrested a man ear-
ly Thursday after he reportedly tried to use a counterfeit bill at a nightclub.
Just before 1 a.m., Robert Barnett, 27, 
walked into Class Nightclub, located at 109 S. Main St., and used a $50 bill to buy 
hookah, according to a police report.
An employee accepted the money 
and gave Barnett $35 in change. The em-
ployee then handed the bill off to another employee who realized it was fake.
Barnett then tried to use six more $50 
bills to buy a bottle of alcohol, according to the report.
Police arrested him at 200 SE Second 
Ave. shortly after. All of the bills had the same serial number, but none of them had a water mark or security thread.
Police arrested Barnett on a charge of 
using counterfeit money. Ofﬁ  cers took him to the Alachua County Jail where he 
was released just before 4 p.m. Thursday 
after paying a $3,000 bond.2 charged with counterfeitCAMPUS
ANTARA SINHA
Alligator Contributing Writer
A research organization chose two UF fac-
ulty members to work through social issues that don’t have explicit solutions.
Michael Spranger and Muthusami Kuma-
ran, both from the UF Department of Family, 
Youth and Community Sciences, will join a 
program through the Kettering Foundation, which promotes conversations about issues such as poverty, obesity, public safety and 
environmental concerns, known as “wicked 
issues.” 
“They pit people against one another,” said 
Kumaran, a UF nonproﬁ  t management and 
community organizations assistant profes-
sor. “People do not agree on the process and consequences of the issues. So that completely derails the democratic process or civic engage-ment.”
The 18-month program brings together 14 
participants from around the country in ﬁ  elds spanning from academia to media.
There will be ﬁ  ve trips to the Kettering 
Foundation’s headquarters in Dayton, Ohio, which will focus on methods of discussion like constructive dialogue, as well as the applica-tion of these techniques in the community, Ku-maran said.
“This process doesn’t teach us to resolve is-
sues, but deliberate on issues,” said Kumaran. “Instead of throwing ideas at each other, let’s sit together and talk about different perspec-tives.”
The pair plan to bring back the techniques 
of “deliberative democracy” to UF. Then they will train county Extension agents to help lo-cal leaders work through theses controversial problems.
They have talked with multiple UF centers 
and departments, such as the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Center for Leadership, the Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service and the UF Center for Building Better 
Communities about the possibility of creating a virtual center to allow these groups to col-laborate efﬁ  ciently.
“I think it would be of great value once 
they’ve completed their work to share it with the campus community,” said David Colburn, director of the Graham Center. UF faculty selected to tackle 
improving social issue talksFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    3-31-14-47-1
UTW Furnished Condo 4bed 4bath W/D all 
utilities, on short bus route to UF 1yr lease starting August 15 $375/mo per student. 352-586-6468     3-9-15-10-1
University Commons 4BR/2BA across from campus. $1300/mo. Includes hi-speed in-ternet & cable. 1 year lease starting August 15th. Call 239-370-8735    3-24-15-15-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2
★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony
$575 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking$900 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen$750 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR/2BA luxury condo, granite counters,  crown molding, pool view, fitness center, lg laundry, W/D, screened lanai, 2013 carpet/paint, Tower Rd bus rt, $899/mo, water/sew-er/trash inc, 352-262-3291    3-31-15-29-2Luxurious Jackson Square
2BR/2.5BA Townhouse Double balcony;
One left! $1600/mo. 352-505-5049
www.crosskeysproperties.com       2-27-15-
10-2
★CAMPUS EDGE CONDO ★
2BR/2BA Walk to UF, Shands, Dental School,  Pharm School & VA.. Tile floor, W/D in unit. 
Avail fall. Reasonable rates. 239-300-1294    
2-27-15-7-2
1 BR / 1 BR - $650/month incl. utilities
Oaks Condos - behind mall / Starbucks6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable 1st floor unit. Lots of parking.Easy walk to mall, dining, RTS bus stop.On-site gym, pool, laundry facility.Contact (352) 219-5351 for info.    3-17-12-2
1BR/1BA CONDO FOR RENT.
W/D, fireplace, new appliances. Off 13th St., 
Creekside Villas. $600/mo. 352-870-0488    
3-9-15-5-2
2Bd/2BA Treehouse Village Condo
Tile flrs,w/d,new kitchen appliances.1.5 mi from UF. 2 pools, Secure 24 hr workoutfacility. Beautiful ground floor unit.$695/mo,$200 dep call 813-340-8982or cindy.choate@comcast.net     2-27-15-3-2
CUSTOM 2BDRM 1BA AVAIL NOW Within 1 1/2 mi UF & Shands Tiled liv rm & kit area Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans Upgraded Bath Like new stainless kit appl W/D Cent H/A Internet/cable avail Owner pays water pest cntrl lawn main security lights Near bus rte Sorry no pets $685/mo. Call 727-423-9463     2-27-15-2-2
1BR COTTAGE $495
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    3-26-15-15-2
HOUSE - 4BR/2BA
Available 8/1. Lawncare, W/D, bike to UF. No pets. 3532 NW 7th Ave. Drive by, see flier. $1400/mo. Call 352-256-8370 or 373-1558     3-12-15-5-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.UNIVERSITY HOUSE APT (for re-let)5-11-15 thru 8-11-15. Rent includes electric, cable TV, internet, water, trash. $725/mo. Please call Mike 813-468-0143 or 813-362-1250 for more details.         3-13-15-10-3
Sublease for Summer Term4-29-15 to 8-11-15. Individual lease,all-inclusive, furnished. $481/monthPavilion on 62nd Nicole- 305-742-7594     2-27-2-3
Need to Sublease for the Summer?
Are you leaving for the summer?
Do you need to sublease your
apartment, room or house?
DON'T WAIT!
The last issue for the Spring semester
will be on Wednesday, April 22nd.
GET YOUR AD IN TODAY!
Just go to www.alligator.org/classified
IT'S EASY!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
HIGH CASH PRODUCINGVending Machines.75 Vend = .65 ProfitAll on Location in FloridaSelling due to illnessCall 1-866-668-6629 for Details     2-27-1-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator 
Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr 
warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-
14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service 
for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor 
rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair 
ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-
6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-12
02 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $250 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
3-9-14-73-13 
TOP CASH PAID FOR OLD GUITARS!1920's thru 1980's Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg, And GibsonMandolins/Banjos.1-800-401-0440    2-27-1-13
12, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    4-22-15-
48-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
4-22-15-48-14
BIG LOU'S PIZZERIA
Now hiring all positions. Experience manda -
tory. Earn top pay in a family work environ -
ment. Apply in person 5 SE 2nd Ave.    2-27-15-5-14
babysitter - cooking skills, reliable,organised, references, flexible hours 
avgeorgieva@yahoo.com     2-27-15-5-14Oak Hall School is seeking energetic,
creative, and enthusiastic individuals with
a love for children to staff its
summer camp program.
Positions in the camp are available in our
elementary school age day camps and
some half-day specialty camp programs.
Summer Dates are June 8-July 24 and
day camp employees
must be available for all dates.
For a complete listing of positions visit
www.oakhall.org/summercamp.
Interested applicants should submit a
resume to Buffy McTureous via e-mail at
bmctuerous@oakhall.org by March 13th.
Interview information regarding
group interview on March 14th
will be sent out upon receipt.
3-13-15-10-14
Help Wanted10-15 hrs per week in AlachuaPredominantly Farm/yard maintenance$12/hr cash3522583571      3-10-15-5-14
Psychological assistant psychometrician
wanted for private practice.
Will require
1-2 months unpaid training to qualify
for 36-40 hour position at 10.50 per hour
minimum 1 year commitment. perfect for
someone wanting experience b4 grad 
school. Send vita to info@cpancf.com
3-16-15-7-14
ACCOUNTING ASSISTANTSWe are looking for accounting graduates or 4th or 5th year accounting students who have or are taking tax/audit. Earn while you learn while working with CPA learning mate-rials. Assist with customer support, research, critical reading, technical advising for video learning, special projects, editing and more.
Our employees have a great success rate 
of passing the CPA on the first try. Flexible schedules. Please apply online at www.gleim.com/employment or contact HR @352-375-0772 ext 122.     3-20-15-11-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    2-27-1-14
Are you ready to kick-start your new career? Now Interviewing Accredited Truck Driving School Graduates (With CDL-A) for our Entry Level Apprentice Program. Must have Good MVR, Work history and Criminal Background history. Call Chris Blackwell at 843-266-3731 to discuss pay and benefits. www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE    2-27-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a 
CNA class which can be completed in one 
weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-
14-71-15
Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
US IMMIGRATION ATTORNEY
Marriage & Employment Greencards, 
Naturalization, H1B Visas
www.ruthimmigrationlaw.com
4-7-30-15
ATTN: COMPUTER WORK. Work from 
anywhere 24/7. Up to $1,500 Part Time to $7,500/mo. Full Time. Training provided. www.WorkServices22.com    2-27-1-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-7679    2-27-1-15
AIRCRAFT DISPATCH Grads work with JetBlue, Southwest, PSA and others- start here with 10 week training for FAA certifica-tion. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    2-27-1-15
FLIGHT Attendant CAREERS start here – Learn how to land a job in the friendly skies and prepare for training by the airlines. Five information packed days in Orlando. Call AIM 888-242-3630.    2-27-1-15
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW!Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOADNO Experience Needed. Local CDL TrainingApply Today! 1-800-709-7364     2-27-1-15
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! Receive Hands On Training And National Certifications Operating Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. Veteran Benefits Eligible! 1-866-912-0572    2-27-1-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305    2-27-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Shop Local. Shop SmallSmall Business Craft ShowMarch 14, 2015; 10 am to 3 pmCymply Fresh/Cymple Room5408 NW 8th Avenue        3-13-13-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
"Guinea Keets and chicks for sale! Keets 
starting at $3.70, as low as $1.70, chicks as low as $1.10. 717-340-1034 or www.ChickensDirect.NET"    3-13-10-24
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Women’s basketball wins on the road
The UF women’s basketball team won its fourth 
road conference game of the season on Thursday, defeating Alabama 53-49 in Tuscaloosa.Lacrosse duo named to watch list
Senior midfielders Nora Barry and Shannon Gilroy were named to the Tewaaraton Award Watch List, the Tewaaraton foundation announced on Thursday.Elliott Orkin scored the lone point in the UF men’s tennis team’s loss to Georgia. Read the story at alligatorSports.org.GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Anyone who knows Kayla 
Lewis is aware of the importance 
she places in her faith.
Faith in the process the Gators 
women’s basketball team is going through, and faith in her team-mates.
Florida’s final regular season 
game is Sunday at home against Georgia in what will be Senior Night for Lewis, the lone senior on the Gators, and a redshirt one 
at that.
But away from the basketball 
court, Kayla Lewis places her 
faith in a higher power: her Chris-
tian beliefs.
Lewis is a devout Christian 
whose faith will define what she 
does after college, and possibly for the rest of her life.
“My goal and my hope and 
my prayer is to go right into vo-cational ministry after the season is over,” Lewis said. “Outside of 
my wedding in May, I’ve been 
sticking to ministry opportunities in Michigan and also in human services.”
Lewis’ fiancé, Christian Nor-
man, is an intern at a church in Michigan and the couple plans to work together at the ministry and pursue their faith.It’s no surprise that the couple 
selected May as the month of its wedding.
May holds a special place in 
Norman’s heart – it’s when he de-
cided to give up football for faith.
Norman, a former linebacker 
at Michigan State University, 
seemed destined for a career in the NFL before a career-threat-
ening elbow injury in the team’s 
Capital One bowl game in 2011 against Alabama changed his plans.
While rehabbing from his in-
jury, Norman attended a Chris-tian camp for athletes on May 24 and he saw people like himself that loved Christianity as much as 
they loved athletics.
Lewis and Norman met lat-
er that summer at the Ultimate 
Training Camp in Fort Collins, 
Colorado, when Lewis was in-
terning with Athletes in Action.
“It was not love at first sight, 
but it might have been love at our first conversation,” Lewis said. 
“I’m an avid reader and I’d been 
reading this book called ‘The Gos-pel according to Jesus’ and he was 
currently reading that book and it 
was kinda like, not a lot of people read that book. It’s a really deep, theological book. To know that 
he was reading it, to me it just 
sparked to me that we had similar interests and he was someone I re-ally wanted to get to know.”
Despite the distance, the two 
became serious about their re-lationship. Norman even drove 
down from Michigan just to ask Lewis’ father for permission to 
date his daughter.
As excited as she is about her 
future, Lewis admittedly doesn’t 
like to think about the end of the 
season. It still hasn’t hit her, but she knows it will when she hits the court at the O’Connell Center on Sunday for the last time.
Coach Amanda Butler, who 
recruited Lewis more than five years ago to leave her friends and 
family in Georgia and head south, 
said that Lewis’ faith is inspira-tional to the team.
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Kayla Lewis looks to pass the ball during Florida’s 64-56 loss to Tennessee on Feb. 8 in the O’Connell 
Center. Lewis, the lone senior on the UF women’s basketball team this season, will be honored following Florida’s final home game on Sunday.
Lone UF senior readying for life after college basketball
Marriage, ministry work upcoming
LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
The road to a second national title 
for the Florida softball team is about to get tougher.
The No. 1 Gators 
will be heading to 
California for its big-gest test of the year: two tournaments and 11 games in a span of nine days. UF enters the road trip with a 17-0 re-cord and on the heels of an 11-0 home stand and a win against No. 17 UCF.
“The competition in California is 
going to be really good,” junior out-fielder Kirsti Merritt said. “I expect re-ally good pitching and some good de-fense, some better pitching than what we’ve been seeing.”
The Gators won’t have to wait long 
to face another top team in the country, as they will face No. 2 Oregon today as part of the San Diego Classic I. The Ducks will enter the game with a 14-1 record.
Florida will also play against Cal UF softball team heads to 
California for tournaments IAN COHEN
Alligator Staff Writer @icohenb
There was something different about 
Buddy Reed.
It may have been the smile stretched 
across his face, planted there after his 
blooper to left-center field sealed Florida’s series-opening victory against Miami just twenty minutes earlier.
It may have been his voice, still shaking 
from the excitement of his first career walk-off.
Or it may have been the glasses he was 
wearing for the second consecutive game, 
after starting the season 1-for-14 without 
them.
“He’s certainly been swinging the bat a 
lot better since he got (them),” coach Kevin O’Sullivan said on Thursday.
The coach’s words are justified. Since 
swapping his contacts for glasses, Reed has 
gone 11-for-24 with five RBIs.
When No. 6 Florida 
faces Stony Brook tonight 
at 7 to open a three-game 
series, Reed will keep them on, even if he hinted 
at a larger reason for his 
improved play.
“I think I was trying to do too much, 
just cause it’s a new season, new year, new 
players, new fans, and I think I got out of who I was in the moment,” he said.
Shortstop Richie Martin admitted that 
everyone felt pressure early in the season, Seeing is believing: Glasses 
helping Buddy Reed at the plateSEE KAYLA, PAGE 15
SEE SOFTBALL, PAGE 15
SEE BASEBALL, PAGE 15Reed
Merritt
14, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
GYMNASTICS
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
Within seconds, Jamie Shisler knew it 
was over.
Her day.
Her season.Her career.
She was done.
When Florida takes on Kentucky to-
night in the O’Connell Center, athletes will perform in front of thousands of fans, living their dream. A few will be seniors, 
savoring one of their ﬁ  nal competitions as 
their careers come to an end.
But for Shisler, that end came long be-
fore she had the chance to savor any senior 
moments.
Standing in a small gym in Muncie, In-
diana, the senior prepared to warm up on ﬂ  oor, an event she was scheduled to exhi-bition in that afternoon against Ball State. 
It was Florida’s ﬁ  rst competition of the 
year, and hope was abundant - particular-ly for Shisler. 
She was coming off her best preseason 
as a Gator, and for the ﬁ  rst time since her sophomore campaign, she felt like she had a real chance to play a signiﬁ  cant role.
She had made only one competitive 
lineup during her entire junior season and was overjoyed to ﬁ  nish her career on a 
much better note.
If that wasn’t enough, she had just 
earned a scholarship that offseason after 
being a walk-on for her ﬁ  rst three years. 
Life couldn’t be better.She began her routine. It was basic, a 
routine she could almost do in her sleep. 
She felt good, and with one ﬁ  nal tum-
bling pass of her warm-up remaining, the senior started a double pike — a double ﬂ  ip with legs together and hips and knees bent, rather ordinary for a gymnast with 
Shisler’s experience.
Part of the move is a punch, the mo-
ment where you bounce off the ﬂ  oor to 
start the ﬂ  ip.
But when she punched, something 
wasn’t right.
“It was the strangest feeling,” Shisler 
said. “It felt like I bottomed out on the ﬂ  oor.”
Her immediate thought was her leg had 
simply given out, but when she attempted to pick herself up off the ﬂ  oor, she fell back down again.
The trainer rushed over and helped 
Shisler crawl off the ﬂ  oor, and as she did the senior caught a glimpse of her foot.
“I knew exactly what I had done,” she 
said.
Shisler tore her Achilles tendon, effec-
tively ending her gymnastics career.
There was no pain, no discomfort — 
just the sickening feeling of ﬁ  nality. 
What was supposed to be a memorable 
senior season was instead going to consist of her standing — or resting on crutches — 
unceremoniously on the sidelines for the 
rest of the year.
“I was absolutely devastated for like 24 
hours,” she said.
But after those 24 hours, her mindset 
changed.
“For me to sit around and have a poor 
attitude isn’t going to help anyone, so I’ve just gotta snap out of it,” she thought to 
herself.
From that moment, Shisler made it her 
goal to do everything in her power to help 
the team, whether that be keeping Bridg-et Sloan company during rehab, ﬁ  lming training sessions or simply providing in-spiration through her positive attitude.
Initially, she thought she would feel 
a disconnect with her teammates, but by 
taking on the different roles available to 
her, she felt just as connected as ever.
Coach Rhonda Faehn also allows her to 
travel with the team, something that has meant the world to Shisler.
“I care so deeply and passionately about 
the team that I want to see them succeed,” Shisler said, “and to not be with them for every step of the journey - I would have 
died.”After rehabbing four days a week for 
the last seven weeks, Shisler plans to be 
at tonight’s meet without crutches for the ﬁ  rst time. 
And by Senior Night on March 13, she 
hopes to be able to wear two shoes again.
Of the many reasons to be excited about 
that, one sticks out to Shisler: She will be able to help move mats in training.
That type of attitude exempliﬁ  es 
Shisler’s character, and it’s what Faehn ap-preciates most about Shisler through this entire ordeal.
“She has handled it better than any-
one I‘ve ever worked with,” Faehn said. 
“It touches my heart that she is still so in-
credibly spirited and hardworking for this team even though she’s not able to com-pete, and she’s always been that way from Day 1.”
And it makes a difference for her team-
mates, too.
“It’s huge,” Faehn said. “They absolute-ly love Jamie. Her mindset and her posi-tive attitude, it just ﬂ  ows to everyone else.
“It’s that ‘I’ll do anything for this team’ 
(mentality) - the girls feel it, they feed off of it.”
Faehn appreciates her impact so much 
that she actually offered Shisler a spot on the team next year through a medical red-shirt. 
Shisler is undecided if she will take the 
offer — she is unsure how the injury will heal, and she has a job offer to work in marketing for Nike. 
But no matter her decision, she is 
grateful for her time at Florida, and she 
wouldn’t ask for anything more.
“For someone who thought they were 
gonna get cut in the ﬁ  rst week, it’s been 
a dream come true,” Shisler said. “I think that’s part of the reason why I haven’t been so devastated. How could you recre-ate something that’s been this great and this magical and this fantastic?”
Senior savoring moments of ﬁ  nal season despite injury
Aaron Albright / Alligator
Jamie Shisler (far right) watches on during Florida’s 197.60-196.95 win against Geor-
gia on Jan. 30 in the O’Connell Center.
“She is still so incredibly spirited 
and hardworking for this team even 
though she’s not able to compete.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF gymnastics coach“When I think Kayla is lead-
ing at her best and playing at her 
best, it’s just so inspiring to our 
team,” Butler said. “I think there’s 
so many parts of Kayla that are special and inspirational to the team off the court as well. She’s 
our spiritual leader. She’s some-
one who is very gifted in the way that she speaks. I think that she has a heart for people. So I think that her teammates really want to 
play well for her. In particular, we 
want to finish out on a really posi-tive note and in a strong fashion to really honor Kayla.”
Lewis knows there are things 
bigger than basketball — al-though she doesn’t plan on giving up basketball in any sense. She still plans on using her talents to 
teach others, by coaching at the 
ministry where Norman interns.
“They have a girl’s basketball 
team that isn’t doing that well 
and are really excited about the 
fact that I’m coming and the help I could possibly bring there,” Lewis said. “From a coaching 
perspective and also just trying to 
figure out where I can fit in at the school… you know athletically, spiritually and from an academic standpoint.”
At the end of the day, winning 
and losing do not define someone. Experiences do.
That’s why Lewis cares more 
about the meaning of the moment and how she can help others, not how Florida’s season plays out.
She cares about how these fi-
nal games define the teammates 
around her, the people who have 
seen her laugh and smile through wins and hurt after each agoniz-ing loss.
“I think you can become para-
lyzed instead of just embracing the moment that this is the last opportunity you get to be on the 
floor with these girls, this is the 
last time this team will be assem-bled and play together,” Lewis said. “I’m more thinking about 
the impact that I’ll leave on my 
teammates versus the games that we’ll actually play.”
especially in the three game series against then-No. 8 Miami. Now, Martin said, the next step is learning from it.
“You’re gonna get in those situations 
where the pressure and the intensity is gonna turn up,” he said. “So to be able to be in those situations, it’s gonna help us further down the road.”
But first, UF (7-1) hosts Stony Brook 
(2-4) tonight, a team that advanced to the 
College World Series in 2012.
The Gators will start right-hander Lo-
gan Shore for the first time since the soph-omore left the mound with an injury after 
throwing just ten pitches against Miami last Friday. A.J. Puk will start on Saturday after allowing two walks, three runs and four hits in 2.1 innings last week.
But the Gators’ brightest spot has been 
their batting order, especially with the emergence of leadoff man Dalton Guthrie, who has a .353 batting average this sea-
son.
“We knew he was a good player, with 
his maturity level and his baseball in-
stincts,” O’Sullivan said. “I mean, even his outs are productive.”
And with Reed’s glasses helping him 
into a hitting groove, Florida is expecting an efficient offensive outing this weekend.
“I didn’t know why he didn’t have 
them earlier, to be honest with you,” O’Sullivan said of Reed’s glasses. “I guess hindsight is 20-20.”FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Marley Boerema / Alligator
Kayla Lewis (22) huddles with her teammates and coach Amanda Butler during Florida’s 68-52 loss 
to Missouri on Jan. 29 in the O’Connell Center.
TRACK AND FIELD
KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer @KBrut13
The Florida men’s and women’s track and 
field teams will rarely hear the word “pres-
sure” from head coach Mike Holloway.
And with the two-day Southeastern Con-
ference Indoor Championships starting today 
in Lexington, Kentucky, the Gators are feel-
ing anything but pressure.
“I kinda just have my normal anxiety for 
running a meet,” junior sprinter Kyra Jeffer-son said.
“I just always want to do my best at the 
time so I bring my own anxiety to the table.”
While Jefferson goes into her competitions 
with some apprehension, she doesn’t let it af-
fect her performance on the track.Last year’s SEC indoor 
meet was the sight of Jef-
ferson’s record-breaking 200-meter sprint, as she set a then-UF record with a 22.87-second mark. She 
was also part of the Gators’ 
then-program record set-
ting performance in the 4x400-meter relay.
This indoor season, the Detroit native is 
the top-ranked women’s runner in the 200 sprint and is seventh in the NCAA in the 400-meter run — an event that she made her collegiate debut in during the Tyson Invita-
tional.
Jefferson’s successful weekend led to 
her being tabbed as the SEC Co-Women’s Runner of the Week, her second conference 
award of the month.
Senior sprinter Dedric Dukes experiences 
nervousness rather than pressure when it comes to the SECs.
Dukes knows that his role on the team 
calls for him to step up late in the indoor sea-son.
He has a large incentive to perform well 
this weekend as he sits on the bubble for qual-ifying for the national meet in the 200 sprint.
Senior jumper Marquis Dendy, who was 
named the SEC Men’s Field Athlete of the Week last week, feels ready going into big-time meets such as this weekend’s competi-
tion in Lexington.
“I don’t feel pressure, I feel pumped up…I 
can’t wait to go, and that gets me going,” Dendy said.
Dendy will be racing in his final SEC in-
door meet. He knows that he has to make this 
weekend his best conference performance yet.
“Last one, best one, as we say around 
here,” Dendy said.
If his last meet says anything about his 
form, there is a high possibility that this will indeed be his best SEC indoor meet.
Dendy — who is looking to claim his first 
SEC triple jump title — marked the ninth-best jump in collegiate history, and placed him-self in third on UF’s all-time list behind Will Claye and Christian Taylor, both of whom are 
decorated Olympians.
“I know this is a meet I gotta end with a 
bang,” Dendy said.Gators not feeling pressure as they start SEC Championships
Amanda Butler considers Lewis to be the team’s spiritual leader
Poly San Luis Obispo today in its second 
game of a doubleheader. UF will also face off against UC Davis, San Diego and San Diego State in its first tournament.
“It’s starting to get down to the nitty-
gritty and we’re going to really prepare,” Merritt said.    
UF will then face Long Beach State 
in Long Beach before heading off to Ful-lerton, California, for the Judi Garman Classic.
The opening game will be a rematch 
against No. 3 Michigan, who Florida defeated 2-1 on Feb. 7. Aleshia Ocasio pitched a complete game against the Wolverines while striking out 10 and scoring the game winning run.
Ocasio will be counted on to continue 
her strong start to the year and she said she’s ready to face stiffer competition.  UF will play against San Jose State, 
the same day as its rematch against Michigan.
On March 6, the Gators will have their 
hardest games of the year, as they will be facing two ranked opponents. Their first 
game will be against No. 15 Arizona be-
fore a rematch against Oregon.
Florida will end its California road 
trip against Fresno State and then head home for the beginning of Southeastern 
Conference play against LSU.
Even though the team has an unde-
feated record through 17 games this 
year, coach Tim Walton needs his team to improve.
“Going to have to get better, but it’s 
good,” Walton said. “You don’t win na-
tional championships in February and 
you don’t win them in March, it’s all 
about continually getting better and to 
be the best, you have to play the best.”KAYLA , from page 13
BASEBALL , from page 13No. 6 Florida hosts Stony BrookFlorida plays four games 
against ranked opponents 
SOFTBALL , from page 13
“I don’t know why he didn’t have 
them earlier, to be honest with 
you.”
Kevin O’Sullivan
UF baseball coachDukes
16, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
LACROSSE
ALEX MAMINAKIS
Alligator Writer @alexmaminakis
Seven days will have been the longest 
break in between games that Florida la-
crosse has had so far this season. 
It’s also the longest break the team will 
have all year. 
This weekend, however, begins a three-
game week for the Gators.
No. 5 Florida (3-1) hosts Dartmouth 
(0-1) at 1 p.m. on Saturday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
The Ivy League squad lost its ﬁ  rst game 
of the season last Saturday to Connecticut 
and had its game on Wednesday post-
poned due to wintry conditions. 
Florida, meanwhile, has encountered no such weather issues and is in the midst of a dominant three-game winning streak.
The Gators are averaging 18.3 goals per 
game in their last three matches and are 
seventh in the country with 66 total goals 
on the young season. 
Florida looks to maintain its offensive 
consistency on Saturday against the Big 
Green and pick up where it left off last 
weekend against San Diego State.
“They look really good. Every time we 
play them, we always have a good game against them, they’re always close,” senior 
midﬁ  elder Shannon Gilroy said of Dart-
mouth. 
“I think no matter what team we play 
this year, we need to come out tough and play our game.”
Gilroy needs just eight more goals to 
become Florida’s all-time leading scorer, but she said she doesn’t think about that 
when she’s on the ﬁ  eld. 
All that matters to her is getting the 
win.
“My mentality is I hate losing, and I 
think everyone else on this team hates to 
lose, too,” Gilroy said. 
“The only thing I really think about go-
ing into each and every game is hopefully getting the outcome we want and the way 
we play.”
The Gators’ defense also deserves cred-
it for the team’s production in its ﬁ  rst four 
games. Last week, sophomore Caroline Fitzger-
ald was named the Big East Defensive Player of the Week.
And on Tuesday the league announced 
junior goalkeeper Mary-Sean Wilcox was this week’s recipient of the honor.
Florida has allowed 32 goals this sea-
son, the third least in the Big East.
Wilcox has accounted for 25 saves 
through four games, sharing time with freshman goalkeeper Olivia Cole. 
Wilcox said she thinks the defense is 
clicking perfectly, a big key to the Gators’ 
success.
“All season and preseason, we’ve been 
working very hard to get on the same 
page,” Wilcox said. “It’s showed. It’s proved that we’ve been working hard and 
it’s all paid off.”Gators continue homestand against Dartmouth following week off
UF has scored 55 goals in its last three games
UF sports in Gainesville over Spring Break
Baseball
Friday-Sunday: Three-
game series vs. Stony 
Brook (7 p.m. Friday, 
4 p.m. Saturday, noon 
Sunday)
Wednesday: UF vs. UCF 
(7 p.m.)
March 6-8: Three-game 
series vs. Maine (7 p.m. 
Friday, 4 p.m Saturday, 1 
p.m. Sunday)Men’s 
Basketball
Saturday: UF vs. Tennes-
see (6 p.m.)
Tuesday: UF vs. Texas 
A&M (9 p.m.)
Women’s 
Basketball
Sunday: UF vs. Georgia 
(3 p.m.)Gymnastics
Friday: UF vs. Kentucky 
(7 p.m.)
Lacrosse
Saturday: UF vs. Dart-
mouth (1 p.m.)
Tuesday: UF vs. Loyola (1 
p.m.)
March 7: UF vs. Niagara 
(1 p.m.)Men’s Tennis
Saturday: UF vs. South 
Carolina (1 p.m.)
Women’s Tennis
Friday: UF vs. Alabama 
(5 p.m.)
Sunday: UF vs. Auburn (1 
p.m.)Women’s Golf
March 6-8: SunTrust 
Gator Invitational
Swimming and 
Diving
Friday: Last Chance 
Meet