VOLUME 109 ISSUE 91 WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
TodayWe Inform. You Decide.Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Making the ﬁ  rst time more comfortable
Robyn Smith gives ﬁ  rst-time sex advice, pg 7.  
SFC planetarium reached for stars with new HD projector
The projector outputs more than 2 million pixels, pg 9. Ryan Orr eager to improve in Spring
His best ﬁ  nish in the Fall season was a tie for 
19th place, pg. 16. 
Bridgette 
Caquatto and 
the No. 3 UF 
gymnastics team 
hosts Georgia 
tonight. Read the 
story on Page 14.
66/35
FORECAST 2OPINIONS 6CLASSIFIEDS 10CROSSWORD  11SPORTS 13Andrés Leiva / Alligator StaffGearheads
Tim Horst, a 19-year-old UF computer science sophomore, works on a bicycle on Thursday 
afternoon in The Outﬁ  tter, the Student Government-funded bike repair shop in the Reitz Union. “I like to ﬁ  x things,” Horst said.
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
A decision by the UF College of Nursing 
to suspend admissions to the nurse midwife-
ry program has upset students and alumni enough to inspire them to start a petition that’s gained more than 1,700 supporters
In a letter sent to alumni of the college, 
Dean Anna McDaniel announced the col-lege’s intentions to stop accepting appli-cations for three of the tracks in the col-lege’s doctor of nursing practice degree program.
The adult-gerontology primary care, 
neonatal and nurse midwifery programs 
did not accept applications for the Spring 
2015 semester. The decision will not affect current students, who will be able to ﬁ  nish out their degrees.In an email, McDaniel said the college 
periodically does an assessment of its pro-grams to make sure they are meeting the needs and interests of current and future students.
“The decision to defer enrollment in 
these tracks was carefully considered based on student enrollment, progression and 
completion rates, availability of clinical care 
experiences, faculty resources and overall funding,” McDaniel said. Nursing students petition to keep midwife program
ALYSSA FISHER
Alligator Staff Writer aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
UF students will be taking part in 
a national sexual assault climate sur-vey in April to give the university a sense of what is working and where improvements need to be made.
UF is one of almost 30 public and 
private institutions participating in the Association of American Univer-sities’ survey, which is inspired by the White House Task Force to Pro-tect Students from Sexual Assault.
The survey, created by the asso-
ciation together with a professional ﬁ  rm called Westat, costs $85,000 per school and will be emailed to stu-dents.
“We’re feeling really good about 
it,” said UF Dean of Students Jen Day Shaw. “It will give us the kind of in-formation we need.”Day Shaw said participating in 
this survey will also allow UF to com-pare itself with other AAU schools, many of which are similar in size and prestige.
She said although UF has phenom-
enal resources, there will always be a better way to get information out.
“For me, it’s going to be really 
helpful to know the awareness of re-sources,” she said. “That’s my predic-tion of where we’re really going to focus some energy.”
Rita Lawrence, GatorWell’s inter-
personal violence prevention coordi-nator, said the counselors focus on primary prevention.
“Don’t tolerate rape culture,” she 
said. “We want everyone to feel com-fortable expressing their sexuality and sexual agency and be able to say yes when they mean yes and no when they mean no — and respecting that.”UF plans assault survey
LOCAL
CARLA VIANNA
Alligator Staff Writer cvianna@alligator.org
There’s a new sheriff in town, and he’s 
cracking down on restaurants via your smart-phone.
What The Health, a free app launched in 
Florida last week, grades restaurants based 
on health inspection data and makes the 
reports readily available to anyone with a smartphone.
“We were out one night (for dinner) and 
we happened to talk about how dirty these places around us are,” said co-founder Jake Van Dyke, 31.
Van Dyke said he and co-founder Chris 
Peoples, 31, whipped out their phones for an 
answer, but the search became time-consum-ing and complicated.
“So we made an app,” Van Dyke said. 
“Now you can say, ‘Here I am. What are the places around me, and how clean are they?’” 
The app, originally launched in Georgia, is 
based on GPS location and is updated weekly.
Each venue receives a letter grade of A, B, 
C or U for unsatisfactory based on a point sys-
tem. Violations are worth different amounts of points depending on their severity. Those points are then deducted from 100.
Most restaurants surrounding UF main-
tain an A to B average.
Some, however, like Tatu Sushi and Moth-
er’s Pub and Grill — both on West University Avenue — received unsatisfactory grades.App shows health inspection 
ratings of nearby restaurantsSEE NURSE, PAGE 4
SEE HEALTH, PAGE 4“We are continuing to gather 
information so we can evaluate how 
to best make these specialty tracks 
sustainable, if possible.”
Dean Anna McDaniel
UF College of Nursing deanNews Today
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P.O. Box 
14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday morn-
ings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Alligator  is 
published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper Associa-
tion, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 107 ISSUE 91 ISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at 
that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. 
All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.TODAYFORECAST
TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY
PARTLY 
CLOUDY
67/52RAIN
64/48SUNNY
73/53PARTLY 
CLOUDY
66/42SUNNY
66/35
The Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its  news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Wauburg Ninth Annual 
Disc Golf Tournament opens Saturday at 9 a.m. The tourna-ment will be played on the 18-hole disc golf course at Lake 
Wauburg’s south shore on 
Feb. 21. The tournament will have two heats with 18 holes each. There are three divi-sions: men’s amateur, wom-en’s amateur and advanced. The top three participants in each division will receive a prize. There will also be two 
contests — longest drive and 
closest to the pin — that will take place during the event. The winners of each of these contests will also receive a prize. To register, visit rscon-nect.recsports.ufl.edu.
Authors@UF: A Conversation 
with Ted SpikerAssociate Professor in the Department of Journalism Ted Spiker will discuss his book “Down Size: Twelve Truths for Turning Pants-Splitting Frustration into Pants-Fitting Success” on Tuesday from 5 to 6:15 p.m. in 
Smathers Library, Room 100. 
Come meet Ted Spiker as he shares his vulnerable, hilari-ous and ultimately insightful experience on taking the scale — and himself — head on, and how he teaches, writes, runs, and blogs while serving as the interim chair of the de-
partment. Check out his vid-
eo at www.tedspiker.com/. Refreshments will be served.
Fulbright Talk
Eileen Ariza will speak Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. in McCarty Hall D, Room G001. Ariza is a professor at Florida 
Atlantic University and a 
Fulbright Ambassador. Before moving to Florida, Ariza was a Teaching Fellow in the English Language Institute at Harvard University and taught English and related work in several countries, including Mexico, Colombia, 
Ecuador, Puerto Rico, Costa 
Rica, Nicaragua, Brazil, Spain and the Philippines. Come and learn about the Fulbright experience! For off-campus audiences, videoconferencing via Polycom will be available. There will be refreshments and networking after the lec-
ture. For more information, 
contact professor Charlie Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
Study Abroad Fair
Discover new cultures, in-crease your global aware-ness, enhance your foreign language skills, make friends, 
establish new contacts, 
strengthen your resume and intern abroad. All of these op-portunities will be available at the Study Abroad Fair on WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Gay Movie Night: ‘In Bloom’
Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Pride Community Center at 3131 NW 13th St., this tale is set during one hot Chicago summer, when 
two young men fall in love. 
Add the foreboding threat of a killer on the loose, and this incredibly rich and rewarding film becomes unmissable. Kurt and Paul seem very solid and in love, living large in their home city of Chicago thanks in part to Kurt’s successful pot-dealing 
business. Everything is going 
their way. But when a sexy young customer makes a play for Kurt, subtle fissures in their relationship and an unsatisfied longing for what they don’t have are exposed, threaten-ing their relationship and their lives. Gay Movie Night is a free 
service of the Pride Community 
Center. A $2 donation is re-quested to cover snacks.
Rock the Block with GatorNights
This week, we’re collaborating with a lot of awesome student groups to bring you an event like no other! Get to know the 
Asian American Student Union 
at the Block Party on the North Lawn Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. Laugh out loud with Reitz Union Board Entertainment and Cat Ladies, an all-female improv comedy trio includ-ing Nicole Byer of MTV’s “Girl Code.” Enjoy free food, games 
and live music from Like the 
Movies. It’s always Friday free with your Gator 1 Card.
Talking with ‘A T. rex Named 
Sue’Join Florida State University professor of anatomy and vertebrate paleobiology Greg 
Erickson at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History on Saturday at 2 p.m. for a discussion that breathes life into a T. rex! His talk complements the muse-um’s featured exhibition “A T. rex Named Sue,” which tells the story of the largest, most complete and best-preserved 
Tyrannosaurus rex ever discov-
ered. UF students with a Gator 1 Card receive free admission to “A T. rex Named Sue.”
Model railroader workshop
Model railroaders and people interested in the hobby have a special opportunity to learn 
and share Saturday in Alachua. 
The event is open to the public. Beginners are welcome. The program is from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Admission is $5 per person. Workshops will be held in the fellowship hall of First United Methodist Church, located at 14805 NW 140th St. Skilled in-
structors will conduct work-
shops, and experienced hobby-ists will show samples of their work. A lighting workshop will feature use of LED lighting on a layout. The session will cover electrical needs, selecting LEDs and tips on installation. More information is available online 
at ncfrailroadclub.weebly.com.
Disc Golf tournament
Registration for the Lake Wednesday on the Plaza of the Americas from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
For additional information visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or email dmcneil@ufic.ufl.edu.
‘The More Things Change, The 
More They Remain the Same: Race In America’On Thursday at 5 p.m. in Pugh 
Hall, the Samuel Proctor Oral 
History Program presents the Alice Mary Baldwin Professor of History at Duke University, Dr. William Chafe, who will deliver a lecture entitled, “The More Things Change, The More They Remain the Same: Race in America.” Dr. Chafe 
will review the role of the state 
and of grassroots protest in cre-ating social change then subse-quently protecting or reversing it. Dr. Chafe will discuss how the 1890s led to state repression and institutionalized Jim Crow, how the movement reversed that process, how the Civil 
Rights Act and Voting Rights 
Act changed some things but not others, and the new fight over trying to reverse the gains made 50 years ago. The event is free and open to the public. Call 352-392-7168 or oral.history.ufl.edu
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to kwiggins@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the Alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 (Voice), 352-376-4467 (Fax)
 Editor Kathryn Varn, kvarn@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Kristan Wiggins, 
kwiggins@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online Alex Harris, aharris@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Melissa Mihm, mmihm@alligator.org
 University Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Emily Cardinali, 
  freelance@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Alec Carver, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Jordan McPherson,    
  jmcpherson@alligator.org
Assistant Sports Editor  Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Alec Carver, Alex Harris,    
  Kathryn Varn, Kristan Wiggins
 Photo Editors Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Ellen Villafuerte, 
  emichelle@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Lawrence Chan, lchan@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Christine Preston
 Copy Editors Kelsey Bona, Alex Fernandez, Kortney   
  Sweeney, Taylor Bello, Kathy Pierre,   
  Melissa Smith      
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482, 800-257-4341, 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager Jacob Clauson, 
  jclauson@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Michael Fyalka, 
  advertising@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives Elena Chow, Bailey Gaul,    
  Brittany Mobley, Eva Sailly,    
  Gabriel Skura, Jessica Samuelson,   
  Jordan Thurn, Tori Wienke
 Advertising Clerks Samantha Aponte, Ian Shuker,   
  Blair Smith
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND (Voice), 352-376-3015 (Fax)
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, ellight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 (Voice), 352-376-4556 (Fax)
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Tiffany Lee, tlee@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 Desktop Support Manager Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Natalie Teer, nteer@alligator.org 
 Assistant Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Fernanda Martinez, Takashi Wickes Editorial Production Staff Shawn Janetzke, Rebecca Kravetz,   
  Bakr SaliqFRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 3 
JIMMY MCLAUGHLIN
Alligator Contributing Writer
The MCAT is ofﬁ  cially changing 
this month, causing a stir among 
hundreds of medical school hope-fuls grinding through the applica-tion process.
The new MCAT, which stands 
for  Medical College Admission Test, has several noteworthy changes.
The exam will be double the length, about six hours instead of three, said Owen Farcy, an MCAT specialist for Kaplan. It will also fea-ture an broader scoring scale with the highest score increasing from 45 to 528, as well as three additional semesters worth of material covered in biochemistry, introductory psy-chology and sociology.
Farcy said the American Asso-
ciation of Medical Colleges made changes that would more accurately test medical school readiness.  
The association is opening reg-
istration Feb. 11 for the April, May and June exams, offering a $150 Amazon gift card to those willing to register for one of the ﬁ  rst two dates.The ﬁ  rst round of exams will set 
the scoring standard.
“We wanted to take this as an op-
portunity to build from the ground up,” Farcy said. “The AAMC have said this is the new test for the 21st century.”
Farcy said he has been working 
on creating a program for the new 
exam since it was ﬁ  rst announced in 
2011. The six hours of testing is the most common concern he’s heard.“Six hours is a long time to be in 
a testing center,” said Drew Sexton, a UF microbiology junior.
However, Sexton, 21, said he has 
mixed feelings about the exam.
“I think it’s good that they are 
adding sections from social sciences to it because doctors don’t just take x-rays,” he said. “They’re interact-
ing with people, and they need to be 
culturally and emotionally knowl-edgeable.”
Registration to open for updated, six-hour-long MCAT soon
ONLINE
CHRISTOPHER KENNEDY
Alligator Contributing Writer
Cameron Fraize remembers a former room-
mate, nicknamed Randy, who never cleaned up after himself.
“He was completely liberated from any 
responsibility of it,” said Fraize, a 20-year-old 
UF mathematics junior.
Fraize and his roommates tried to discuss 
the matter with Randy, but they couldn’t ﬁ  x 
anything, and Randy eventually moved out.A new blog and online store, Roommate 
Harmony, which launched four months ago, aims to resolve the issues roommates tend to bump heads over — including cleaning.
The owner of Roommate Harmony, Chad 
Jarrah, said he started the site because he had a bad freshman year roommate experience.
Years later, Jarrah said he realized he was 
part of the problem. He said his lack of com-munication with his roommate was a major contributing factor. Through his blog posts and product line, Jarrah said he hopes to help students avoid the same mistakes.
“Speak up,” he said. “Just because you 
speak up doesn’t mean it has to be angry or annoying or mean or cocky.”
Roommate Harmony supplements its blog 
posts through a product line, which includes personalized stickers to show ownership of food and a chore chart so keeping the space clean is fairly divided among roommates.
A portion of these proceeds go toward 
Project HOME, a program that provides out-reach, housing and comprehensive services to impoverished communities.
Chad Furst, a UF public relations senior, 
said he thinks the website is a great place for roommates having issues to seek resources to resolve these issues.
“I think if nothing else, it could be kind of 
a place to start a discussion for roommates,” said Furst, 21. “You know, maybe realize that maybe we should use some of these services 
and try and ﬁ  x any problems we could have 
before they develop into something too seri-ous.”New blog, store aims to resolve issues between roommates“Six hours is a long time 
to be in a testing center.”
 Drew Sexton
UF microbiology juniorALYSSA FISHER    
Alligator Staff Writer afisher@alligator.org
UF is teeming with brilliant 
people working on cutting-edge 
technology that saves lives, re-veals mysteries and solves prob-lems. We’re here to share the 
latest in UF’s advancements, re-
search and studies.
Feeling SourUF researchers have devel-
oped a simple, efficient and in-
expensive sensor that can detect 
whether a tree has been infected 
with citrus greening. 
Citrus greening, also known 
as “yellow dragon disease,” be-gins when a tiny insect deposits bacteria on the leaf of a fruit tree. The bacteria invade the tree and starve it of nutrients, creating a thick, pale peel with a green bot-
tom, killing most affected trees 
within a few years. 
The sensor’s early warning 
could give growers enough lead time to destroy diseased trees and save the rest, said Daniel Lee, the UF professor of agricul-ture and biological engineering who developed the sensor.
In 95 to 98 percent of labora-
tory and field tests, the sensor accurately detected the signs of citrus greening: leaves with veins and splotches that appear a pale shade of gray on the sen-sor’s images, an obvious contrast to the dark-gray image of healthy leaves.
“The current ground inspec-
tion is very time-consuming, sub-jective and labor intensive, and 
also requires a lab analysis of leaf 
samples,” Lee said. “Our real-time, in-field detection system can provide objective, fast and accurate results of the disease de-tection.”
Smart Sex New UF research shows that 
female students with dads who 
were more involved in their lives 
as teenagers were more likely to use protection when having sex in college.
For her master’s thesis in the 
UF/IFAS Department of Family, Youth and Community Sciences, Caroline Payne-Purvis analyzed responses from 748 college stu-
dents on aspects of their adoles-
cent years, like their parents’ lev-el of involvement when they still lived at home, how often they now engage in sexual behaviors and their contraceptive use.
Payne-Purvis found female 
students who said their father was “involved” in their lives as 
teens used condoms more fre-
quently during intercourse. She said one possible explanation is that the presence of a father fig-ure reduces the desire for male attention outside the home.
“The main lesson to take from 
this study is that in an era of sin-gle families, high divorce rates and dual working families, fa-thers continue to have an impact on their daughters’ lives,” she said. “Additionally, it indicates that situations and relationships from one’s adolescence carry over into early adulthood.”
4, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
UF research roundup: Greening citrus and fatherly roles
 AP Photo
Sarah Morgan, 14, loads bags of picked grapefruit Saturday morning in Jacksonville as a part of Feeding 
Northeast Florida’s Citrus Harvest for the Hungry. UF researchers have developed a sensor that can detect whether a tree has been infected with citrus greening, caused by crop-killing bacteria.
CYANNE DUNN
Alligator Staff Writer cdunn@alligator.org
The search has begun for a new 
dean for UF’s College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences.
Initial interviews began Thursday 
and Friday, with candidates who had been chosen from a larger pool of hopefuls, said Alisson Clark, senior writer for UF media relations.
The previous dean, Paul D’Anieri, 
left in June after accepting a position in California.
Three or four finalists will be invit-
ed to campus around the second and third week of February for another round of interviews, Clark said.
“There will be opportunities to 
visit with the campus community so the candidates can learn about UF,” Clark said.
Each of the finalists will partici-pate in an open forum before the pro-vost and President Kent Fuchs make a decision. The final decision should be announced in early March, Clark said.
Blake Patel, a 21-year-old UF an-
thropology senior, said it is important that the search committee chooses an innovative candidate, especially be-cause the college is the largest in the 
university. He said he would like to 
see the college more broken up.
“I just think that would give peo-
ple more of an identity with their ma-
jor,” Patel said.UF liberal arts college 
searching for new deanThree programs are under review
There haven’t been any decisions made 
regarding the future of any of the tracks, Mc-
Daniel said.
“We are continuing to gather information 
so we can evaluate how to best make these 
specialty tracks sustainable, if possible,” she 
said.
The suspension has two midwives wor-
ried about the future of their industry.
Stephanie Shivers, 30, a current student of 
the midwifery program, started a petition last Sunday with fellow midwife Padi Sutherland.
“I have high hopes that it will be helpful, 
but I know it won’t be the only thing that 
achieves our goal,” Shivers said.
As of press time, the petition had 1,762 
supporters. Neither of the other tracks has pe-
titions as far as Shivers, Sutherland and Mc-Daniel know.
Midwives are an alternate health care op-
tion for women and can provide gynecologi-cal, pre- and post-natal care and everyday care like birth control. UF’s program is the 
only certified nurse midwifery program in 
the state, Shivers said, which is why it’s im-portant the program continues to take in stu-dents.
“Moms are not going to have the various options that we provide and the type of sup-port that midwives provide,” Shivers said. “If there are no nurse midwifery programs, then we aren’t supporting Florida residents.”
Sutherland, who works at Gainesville OB-
GYN and met Shivers through the local chap-ter of American College of Nurse-Midwives, said midwives are an important resource.
“We provide low-intervention, high-qual-
ity, low-cost care often to underserved popu-
lations,” Sutherland said. “You’re not going 
to find that many doctors who would do that kind of travel to rural communities because it’s not very profitable.“
UF Health is currently undergoing prepa-
rations to open a new midwife-led birth cen-ter in Jacksonville, however.
“The opening of the UF Health Birth Cen-
ter in Jacksonville reflects our support for the 
services of nurse midwives,” McDaniel said. 
“The center will function independently of the UF College of Nursing and its academic programs.”NURSE , from page 1
Karma Cream, Reggae Shack Cafe, Dragonfly among top-rated 
Ada Cruz, a 22-year-old UF Eng-
lish major, frequently goes to Tatu for sushi.
“I ate there two days ago, and I 
was fine,” she said on Wednesday. 
“But I don’t know. That’s a little con-
cerning.”
Tatu’s manager could not be reached for comment as of press 
time.
Trevize Nixon, kitchen manager 
at Mother’s, said the restaurant 
takes the violations very seriously.
“We actually welcome the health 
inspector because his point of view is showing us areas that we need to improve on,” Nixon said.
Among the violations, Mother’s 
is listed as having an accumulation of a black and green mold-like sub-
stance in the interior of the ice ma-
chine. They were also reported as storing some meats and produce at unsafe temperatures.
However, Nixon said that all of 
the violations from the most recent inspection have been fixed.
“It makes restaurants want to 
improve their quality because this 
is public information, and it’s more easily available to their consumer,” Cruz said.A few of those on the A-list 
include Chipotle Mexican Grill, 
Karma Cream, Reggae Shack Cafe, Crane Ramen, Dragonfly Sushi and Piesanos Stone Fired Pizza.
Ryan Zachow, general manager 
at Piesanos, said it’s inexcusable for any restaurant to have a low score.
“I think it’s going to hurt more 
restaurants than help,” Zachow 
said. HEALTH , from page 1
“We actually welcome the 
health inspector because 
his point of view is showing 
us areas that we need to 
improve on.”
Trevize Nixon
Mother’s kitchen manager“There will be opportunities 
to visit with the campus 
community so the candidates 
can learn about UF.”
Alisson Clark
UF media relations senior writer“I have high hopes that it will be 
helpful, but I know it won’t be the 
only thing that achieves our goal.”
Stephanie Shivers
midwifery program studentFRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 5 
Andrés Leiva / Alligator StaffShadow Dance
JD Dimanche, a 25-year-old UF linguistics graduate student, balances 
on a slackline on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday afternoon.
LOCAL
LILIANNE BUSTO
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville Regional Transit 
System’s new facility will move 
into full operation Monday after opening its doors in November.
This weekend, the mainte-
nance and operations staff will move into the new facility and join the administration staff. Bus-es will depart from the new sta-tion beginning Monday.Before it was built, buses were 
sent to Ocala and Orlando to have work done, increasing the bus downtime and costs associated with the repairs, wrote Chip Skin-ner, marketing and communica-tions supervisor for RTS, in an email.
The new facility took a year to 
build and cost $39 million, Skin-ner said. The Federal Transit Ad-ministration provided grants for construction, and the Florida De-partment of Transportation pro-vided a loan for the property.
The new facility includes an 
operations and administration building as well as a maintenance building. Both are energy effi-cient, Skinner said.
“It was built with room for 
future growth and offices for cur-
rent staff members,” Skinner said.
The operations and adminis-
tration building is home to staff 
offices and the operators’ lounge, which includes new fitness equip-ment, a larger kitchen area, a quiet room, lockers and mail-boxes, Skinner said. Body work and paint repairs will go on in the maintenance building.
RTS riders will not notice a 
change in services, he said, but improvements were made to ac-
commodate emergencies or ac-
cidents, like the video wall in the dispatch area, Skinner said.
The facility contains a print shop where staff can create stick-ers and advertisements. There is also a bus-wash station, Skinner added.
Jonathan Howland, a UF pub-
lic relations junior, said he is hap-py with the RTS system because of its environmental goals.
“I like that the RTS system pro-
vides transportation for students,” Howland, 27, said, “because it re-duces the amount of cars on cam-pus and in Gainesville.”
RTS to move all operations to a new facility on Monday
VERONICA GARCIA
Alligator Contributing Writer
There are a lot of misconceptions about the 
genetically modified mosquitoes that could be released in the Florida Keys. The experiment has been conducted in other countries, such as the Cay-man Islands, and experts say it isn’t as dangerous 
as it seems.
Aedes Aegypti, a species of mosquito intro-
duced to the U.S. from Egypt, carries two serious diseases: dengue and chikungunya. Dengue can 
infect up to 100 million people worldwide each year.
Beth Ranson, public education and informa-
tion officer for the Florida Keys Mosquito Control District, said this would be the first time GMO mosquitos would be released in the U.S., but other GMO insects have been released before.
The project is aimed to target only the Aedes 
Aegypti species of mosquito out of the 46 species present in the Florida Keys.Oxitec Limited, the company that would be 
working on the GMO mosquitos if the FDA ap-proves the project, says its goal is for mosquito con-trol groups to have the tools they need to keep the numbers of Aedes Aegypti mosquitoes down. This would help avoid epidemic outbreaks because pre-vention is the best defense.
Communications manager for Oxitec Chris 
Creese explained that only the male GMO mos-quitos would be released in the wild to mate with females. This causes the offspring of the mosquito to die young.
“It’s true there are misconceptions causing some 
confusion,” Creese said in an email. “There are no diseases in the technology. This mosquito control method uses the mosquito as a tool to fight itself.”
Walter Tabachnick, UF director of genetics and 
vector competence, said the chance the release could cause problems is low.
“I believe the risks of the release that are pro-
posed in the Keys are likely minor,” Tabachnick said.
However, he added he can’t predict the effects 
of the mosquitoes.
If this project is approved by the FDA, the in-
sects would not last long in the wild.
“The released insects and their offspring die, so 
they don’t stay in the environment,” Creese said. “For example, in Cayman Islands after the releases for that project were stopped, there were no adult mosquitoes left within 14 days.”Genetically modified mosquitoes 
might be released in Florida Keys
ASHLEY MILCHMAN
Alligator Contributing Writer
At the UF Senate Showcase on Thursday, 
senators encouraged students to participate 
in Student Government and reflected on the successes of the year.
Senate President Joseph Michaels began 
the event by discussing the main points of last year’s legislative agenda, which includ-ed approval of turning Newell Hall into a 24/7 study center, adding solar-powered tables around campus and funding for new bike repair stations for graduate and under-graduate housing.
“We accomplished the majority of our 
legislative agenda in the few months that we have been involved as a Senate executive board,” Michaels said. 
Anthony Sorrentino, Senate Rules and Ethics Committee chairman, also discussed the Senate’s goal to increase student partici-pation every semester.
Sorrentino also discussed the success of 
SG’s push toward involvement in commu-nity service. 
He said members of SG have completed 
more than 300 hours of tabling, hosted or at-tended 10 community service projects and have gone to more than 400 student organi-zation meetings.
The event concluded with Sorrentino 
encouraging students to participate in the slating process, where senators interview students for a chance to run on the election ticket for the upcoming year.
“Besides elections, besides holding a po-
sition, just your ideas, your involvement, your participation, that’s what keeps us go-ing,” Sorrentino said.
Student Senate recaps year and looks ahead during showcase
LOCAL
MARCUS HOLTON
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new business is serving up 
healthy lunches that can be deliv-ered straight to your door.
Sandra Meza, 34, started her 
lunch delivery service, called 
Sandra’s Lunchbox, last week, 
she said. It provides healthy, homemade meals that range from $6 to $10.
Meza said the overall goal of 
the service is to provide healthy eating solutions for people on the job.
Javier Espinoza, spokesman 
for Sandra’s Lunchbox, said since 
it started, it has fulfilled close to 
20 orders. The plan was to start out slowly, but the service be-came popular mostly due to its Facebook page, he said.
The service provides home-
made meals with fresh ingredi-ents from local wholesale grocery stores such as Lucky’s Market and Trader Joe’s, Espinoza said. The foods are primarily Latin-
based, including lentil soup with 
Spanish chorizo and shrimp sal-ad. There are also vegetarian op-tions.Each Friday afternoon, a new 
menu is released, Espinoza said. There are about seven items for each day of the week.
As of now, only cash is accept-
ed, but the business is in the pro-cess of creating a website where 
orders and payments can be pro-
cessed online. 
The ordering process involves 
texting in an order or calling, Es-pinoza said.
Sandra’s Lunchbox was mod-
eled after similar delivery sys-tems in Latin America.
“We have something new and 
something fresh,” said Espinoza. “The main idea is to be healthy 
and she (Sandra) created the ser-
vice for that reason.”
To place an order, call or text 
352-318-3706.
Sandra’s Lunchbox offers healthy lunches for delivery“It’s true there are misconceptions 
causing some confusion. There are 
no diseases in the technology. This 
mosquito control method uses the 
mosquito as a tool to fight itself.”
Chris Creese
Oxitec communications managerReader response
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the  Alligator .ColumnEditorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
Is it just us, or was this the longest week of all time? It 
seemed to creep along at a bafﬂ  ingly slow pace. Maybe it’s because the mid-semester workload ﬁ  nally set in; maybe 
it’s because we’re going through a dire coffee shortage. What-ever the cause, it’s ﬁ  nally over. To make it ofﬁ  cial, here’s this week’s.. 
Darts & Laurels
One of the earliest rallies of Republican presidential hope-
fuls went down in Iowa during the Iowa Freedom Summit. It was a strange, strange gathering of the has-beens and weir-dos of the Republican establishment — Donald Trump still 
has dreams of blustering around the Oval Ofﬁ  ce. But while 
nobody decisively “won” the Freedom Summit, a clear loser did emerge.
Sarah Palin burst her way back into the national spotlight 
in a way no one else ever could. During Palin’s speech, her 
teleprompter gave out — forcing her to ad lib her points as 
best she could. The “best she could” is still pretty terrible from the perspective of, you know, getting into public ofﬁ  ce. 
But for the rest of us, it was pretty damn hilarious. It has 
been described as rambling and incoherent; indeed, we found 
it awe-inspiring. Tangent after tangent degraded until it be-
came clear she had abandoned any effort to string real sen-tences together. It even got weirdly erotic: “‘The Man’ can only ride you if your back is bent. So straighten it. Then he 
can’t ride you!” Her speech was so insane that GOP luminar-
ies have started to dismiss her as a camera-happy basketcase. 
So we’re giving a thanks-for-the-laughs-before-all-the-poli-
tics-get-ugly LAUREL to Sarah Palin.
Unfortunately, inexplicably irrational behavior isn’t al-
ways a laughing matter. Such is the case with the recent mea-sles outbreak at Disneyland — one which has landed dozens of people, many of them children, in hospitals. It would be one thing if it were an outbreak of an obscure, difﬁ  cult-to-cure disease. But this is measles, a disease which was con-
trolled and, in 2000, declared eliminated in the U.S. 
The successful elimination of measles was due entirely to 
the use of the measles vaccine. But the recent anti-vaccination movement preying on the paranoia of new parents has con-vinced thousands to abandon this treatment. It’s a philosophy without basis in any shred of actual evidence whatsoever and has reached its logical conclusion. Thanks, nimrods: Measles is back. We’re giving a your-unfathomable-stupidity-is-put-
ting-others-in-danger DART to the anti-vaccination move-ment.
As you may or may not be aware, newly-instated UF Pres-
ident Kent Fuchs dropped by the Alligator ofﬁ  ce on Wednes-day to speak with the editorial board. Not to brag, but it was pretty sweet — we got to meet with the big man upstairs, so to say, and it turned out he’s a cool guy. He introduced himself to us at the Alligator and laid out what he wanted to do for his next 12 months here at UF. We’re looking forward to what is shaping up to be an accessible and transparent ad-ministration. Here’s a thanks-for-dropping-by LAUREL to 
President Fuchs.
65 TOTAL VOTES36% YES
64% NO
Vote or post a message at www.alligator.orgFriday’s question: Were you wonder-ing why the time capsule in front of the stadium hadn’t been opened yet?Today’s question: Do you pay attention to restaurant 
health inspection ratings?Google Fiber is Internet of the future
Generally, the announcement that a new Internet ser-
vice and cable provider is moving into your home-town isn’t big news, but when that provider is 
Google, people get excited. Why would anyone do a happy dance over the tech giant creating a new Internet service in 
your city?
It’s safe to say few of us actually have a cordial relation-
ship with our current cable provider, and Google is hoping 
to alleviate that problem.
Google Fiber is a cable and Internet service currently 
testing in several markets throughout the country. Just this week, Google announced it will ﬁ  nally make serious inroads into the Southeast with Atlanta, Nashville, Charlotte and Raleigh-Durham getting Google Fiber in 2015. There are sev-
eral reasons why Google’s expansion into cable and internet 
service is a big deal — competition with companies like Cox and Comcast is just one.
Aside from incredible 1-gigabit-per-second download 
speeds offered at a fairly reasonable price, Google is also offering free — albeit much slower — service for up to seven years. This is why Google’s expansion into the cable and Internet service provider world is so intriguing. In my hometown of Atlanta, for example, Google plans to provide 
service to several low-income neighborhoods near the down-
town area, giving residents the opportunity to receive Inter-net service — in some cases for free.
If we start looking at the Internet as a crucial service in 
today’s world, it becomes all the more important to make sure all of our communities have access to some sort of high-speed Internet. Last year, the U.S. Census Bureau analyzed Internet access throughout the country and found some trou-bling statistics. Only 53.7 percent of people with less than a 
high school diploma have access to Internet at home. For 
those making $25,000 or less per year, that number drops to 48.4 percent. 
When you have access to the Internet, it’s easy to ignore 
the millions of Americans who don’t, and so few of us have the ability to alleviate the problem for low-income Ameri-cans. If you look at your monthly Internet bill, it’s easy to see why those of lesser means eschew Internet service: It’s expensive.
There are a few solutions to 
this problem, and Google is start-ing to provide one of them. We need additional competition in 
the world of high-speed Inter-
net access. Generally, when you move into a house or apartment, you have precious few options, which drives prices up due to a 
lack of real competition. Bringing Google Fiber into the mix provides competition to existing cable companies, especially when it can provide free access for seven years.
The other option will certainly upset some pro-business 
folks, but in cities without new services like Google Fiber, it may be the best one: Turn Internet service into a public util-ity. Before you start screaming “socialism,” some American cities — including Gainesville — are starting to do this, and it may be working. The city of Chattanooga offers 1-gigabit-per-second download speeds for roughly the same price as Google Fiber, which is 50 times as fast as the average Internet speed in the U.S. As a result, Chattanooga is attracting tech companies to set up shop, and younger Americans are ﬂ  ock-
ing to this burgeoning tech hub.
Gainesville Regional Utilities is offering a similar high-
speed Internet service called Gator Net, but it’s only available 
in select areas throughout Gainesville. While it’s not Chat-tanooga, Gainesville and GRU certainly understand that 1-gigabit-per-second download speeds is exactly what cities need to attract new, high-tech jobs to the area.
We can keep ﬁ  ghting with Cox, Comcast or whichever 
service sends your blood pressure through the roof each 
month, or we can embrace a future with a variety of op-
tions, whether it’s Google, GRU or some other service. For the country to make a leap into the future, we need to make sure all of our citizens have access to affordable, high-speed Internet and that the service provided is second-to-none.
Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have to pay my Internet bill.Joel Mendelson is a second-year UF political campaigning 
graduate student. His column appears on Fridays.FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/OPINIONS
Kathryn Varn
EDITORAlex Harris
Kristan Wiggins
MANAGING EDITORSAlec Carver
OPINIONS EDITOR
Joel Mendelson
opinions@alligator.org FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 7
Dear Readers,
In exactly 25 days you will all 
have the opportunity to elect 50 
student senators representing their colleges as well as the Student Body president, vice president and trea-surer.
As your supervisor of elections, I 
encourage you to learn more about Student Government, the political 
parties, the candidates and the elec-
tions process. 
Starting this Sunday, you will 
be able to interview to be a part of Student Senate as a candidate with 
a political party at the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom. This will continue on Monday and Tuesday. Qualifying and slating on Sunday is from noon to 4 p.m., on Monday from 9 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. and on Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Elections this semester are on 
Tuesday, Feb. 24 and Wednesday, 
Feb. 25 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., 
and we hope to offer 11 polling loca-tions around campus. Please remem-ber that in this upcoming election, you will be able to vote for candi-
dates who represent you based on 
your major or college. This is deter-mined by how many total credits you have. Any IB/AP/dual enrollment credits you have accrued counts to-ward this amount.
For more information on the elec-
tions process, please visit sg.uﬂ  .edu/elections.
Go Gators,
Hans Rojas
Supervisor of Elections
elections@sg.ufl.edu Letter to the Editor
It’s Friday night and you’re at Midtown. A few drinks already in your system, you lock eyes with someone across the bar. Talking 
leads to dancing, which leads to making out, which leads to inviting them back to your place.
Or, maybe you’ve been seeing someone for 
a while. You really like them as a person, and you want to show them just how much you like them. So you invite them over to wine and dine them before you, ahem, do something that rhymes with that.
No matter which pick-your-own-sexual-adventure choic-
es got you there, you realize: “Hell yeah, I’m about to have sex.”
Except that you’ve never had sex with this person before. 
This is all uncharted territory. What will they expect from me? What if it’s not good? Why am I reading this newspaper article in the bathroom while they’re waiting for me in my bed?
First off, relax. I get it — hooking up with someone for the 
ﬁ  rst time can be nerve-wracking. It’s a whole new body to explore, plus a whole new set of likes and dislikes to ﬁ  gure out.
You don’t want the sex to be terrible because that will set 
the tone for future X-rated encounters. Your partner is prob-ably just as nervous about you, though, whether for better — you both take your time exploring each other and laugh about the inevitable mishaps — or for worse — you both are so nervous that it’s clumsy, three-minute sex just for the sake of having it.
To prevent the latter, here are some tips. Most importantly, have fun. What’s the point of having 
sex if you’re not enjoying yourself?           
Something awkward is bound to happen — your partner 
can’t get your bra off, your stomachs rub together and make a really weird noise, you fall off the bed — but just laugh it off. A good sense of humor will make the whole thing more enjoyable and will lessen your nerves.
On that note, just go with the ﬂ  ow of the night. It’s OK to be nervous, but don’t be so nervous that you’re uptight and standofﬁ  sh. This should go for any sexual act, not just the ﬁ  rst one, but you should be in the moment rather than wondering, “Is my performance okay? Are they having fun? 
Can they tell that I ate a whole pizza by myself 
for dinner?”
Do your best to make sure they’re having 
fun — this means you might actually have to talk to them and ask them what they like and if you’re doing OK — but also relax and let your-
self have fun, too.
But don’t feel pressured to make it the most fun night 
you’ve ever had. A popular downfall is that people feel sex 
should be amazing the ﬁ  rst time. That might happen, but 
it’s more likely there’s a learning curve, and you’ll get better together over time. So don’t feel like you need to pull out whips and chains just yet. Stick to basics that you know and like. It won’t be a disappointment that you did it mission-ary style rather than trying the inverted piledriver on one leg while rubbing your stomach and patting your head at the same time.
Still, be sensitive to what your partner likes. Even if 
you’ve only known them for 15 minutes, a quick, “What can I do that would really turn you on?” wouldn’t be amiss. For your ﬁ  rst time, you’re probably not going to know that your partner can only orgasm from reverse cowgirl position, so to err on the safe side, draw out foreplay and ask for feedback: “Does this feel good? Is there anything else you want to try?”
If both people are into the action, though, you’re going 
to have fun. Just relax, and don’t pay too much mind to the fact that it’s your ﬁ  rst time together. Happy hooking up, 
and may your ﬁ  rst time lead to seconds, thirds, fourths and 
many more after that.
Got any questions too embarrassing for the Internet or 
your friends? Send them in to opinions@alligator.org. I’ll write about them next week.
Robyn Smith is a UF journalism junior. Her column appears 
on Fridays.Making the ﬁ  rst time more comfortableColumnEarlier this week, a close friend conﬁ  ded in me what she wanted more than anything in her dream col-lege. “My dream university,” she paused before 
telling me, lest she be embarrassed, “would have two-ply toilet paper in their restrooms.”
Although expressed in a 
bizarre and wildly inappropri-ate manner, I think her dream reﬂ  ects that of many college students: They want their uni-versity to be the best of the best, standing head and shoul-ders — or more appropriately, leg and ankle — above other 
colleges. A good university 
should nourish and take care of its students wherever possible. While this is usually understood to mean im-provements in the classroom, bathrooms are also rooms found on college campuses, and any institution worth its salt ought to guarantee not only the comfort but also the joy that can be found in a half-decent restroom.
Her comment made me pause and ponder: What are 
UF’s bathrooms like? Sure, we may be one of the most 
prominent public universities in the U.S. I suppose we 
have distinguished alumni, with luminaries such as Joe Scarborough and Ryan Lochte showing the world the best we have to offer. Hell, we gave the world Gatorade, the drink most closely associated with urine-based pranks. But does any of that truly mean a thing if students cannot relieve themselves without stooping to wipe the toilet seat before they sit down? In my eyes — and I hope I speak for every person in The Gator Nation when I say this — no.
And it is for this reason that after a half-hour’s worth 
of careful examination, fact checking and soul searching, I came to the conclusion that I’m glad she goes to Flori-da State University, where her disappointment with the quality of the toilet paper is only the beginning of an FSU student’s woes. While I cannot vouch for, or even dare to imagine, what FSU’s public restrooms are like, it only took me one visit to a UF bathroom to realize they not only fail to meet the standard established by my outland-ish friend but also the standards we as Gators hold our-selves to. Spurred by my own intrigue and inspired by her curiously low standards for an ideal college experi-ence, I sought to review UF’s bathrooms for myself and see what, if any, improvements can be made.
After conducting thorough research — Googling 
“ideal bathroom experiences” — I came up with what re-strooms should provide: ample lighting and space for a pleasing aesthetic, and two-ply toilet paper.
With these standards in mind, I went about my task of 
experiencing the myriad public restrooms UF has to offer.
It would have been a fool’s errand to try to cover every 
public restroom at UF, so I limited myself to those recom-mended to me by a carefully chosen, diverse cross sec-tion of students: the four white Jewish males I live with. I 
settled on two locations: Little Hall and Pugh Hall.
I began with Little Hall, which bade ill for my endeav-
or. I had been told that Little Hall’s ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor restroom 
was, in short, a nightmare. My one, and what is sure to be only, visit conﬁ  rmed this. Upon stepping inside, I felt as though I had ended up on set of the ﬁ  rst “Saw” movie: dim lighting, gray walls and a lack of paper-towel dis-pensers left me upset to my core. Walking to its lone stall, hoping against hope, I held a roll of toilet paper in my 
hand to see if Little Hall could be salvaged. The ease with 
which I ripped through a sheet proved that no, it could not. Two out of ten, would not do again.
Pugh, on the other hand, was a different story. Com-
plemented by sensuous lighting, the bathroom’s beige tilework and spacious interior made for an ideal bathroom experience. With that said, it too lacked that key ingredi-ent, that divine substance which distinguishes bathrooms of prestige from those of ill repute. I speak, of course, of 
two-ply toilet paper. While I begrudgingly give Pugh’s 
restrooms an eight out of ten, would do again, it is not without reservations. UF is one of the best institutions in the world, and as it expects the best out of its students, we should expect the best out of it as well. Two-ply or bust.
Zach Schlein is a UF political science junior. His column 
appears on Fridays.Two-ply or die: UF
needs TP standardsColumn
Robyn Smith
opinions@alligator.org
Zach Schlein
opinions@alligator.org
8, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
JASMINE MELENDEZ
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF alumna and associ-
ate professor’s work caring 
for shelter pets has earned her a title and extra funding for her professorship.
Natalie Isaza, a clinical 
associate professor at the UF College of Veterinary Medi-cine, has been named the Gre-vior Shelter Medicine Com-munity Outreach Professor, a new professorship estab-lished by Barbara and Arnold Grevior. 
The Fort Lauderdale cou-
ple has been active in the Florida animal welfare com-munity for years, Isaza wrote in an email.
Karen Legato, senior direc-
tor of development and alum-ni affairs for the college, said the professorship was created in September 2014. It will fund part of Isaza’s salary, which was $110,962 in 2014, according to UF records.
Isaza said the Greviors 
have funded scholarship and externship opportunities for veterinary students at the Broward County Humane Society, and their donation helped establish the Grevior Shelter Medicine Suite at UF’s veterinary college.
Isaza graduated from UF 
with a degree in veterinary medicine in 1994. In 2003, she established the Merial Shelter Medicine Clerkship, now known as the Veterinary Community Outreach Pro-gram, which gives students access to animals for physical examination, diagnosis, med-ical treatment, and spay and neuter opportunities.
The program also cares for 
animals owned by homeless and low-income residents at the St. Francis House Pet Care Clinic, which Isaza co-found-ed with former UF president Bernie Machen’s wife, Chris.
Also included under the 
umbrella of the outreach program is the Helping Ala-chua’s Animals Requiring Treatment & Surgery pro-gram.
“I believe the Greviors 
were just impressed with the programs we were es-tablishing to help all animals through the clerkship along with the instruction we were providing the veterinary students,” Isaza said. “They wanted to show their appre-ciation for that.” UF vet professor 
awarded for work in shelter medicineCourtesy to the Alligator
A participant in Hand Camp removes an arrow from a target. Children in the camp can take part in 
activities like archery or climbing. The camp’s motto is, “Differences do not equal disability.”
CAMPUS
 THEY’RE HOSTING A FUNDRAISER IN FEBRUARY.
JENNIFER JENKINS
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hands to Love brings strength, 
hope and compassion to children 
with upper limb differences.
On Feb. 7, the nonprofit will host 
a fundraiser at the UF Orthopaedics 
and Sports Medicine Institute to cel-
ebrate the upcoming 15th anniversary of its Hand Camp, which will be April 10-12 at Camp Crystal Lake in Starke. 
Ruthie Dell, an occupational thera-
pist at UF Health Shands, and her husband, Paul Dell, a Shands ortho-pedic surgeon, run the camp together. Children with upper limb differences come from all over the country to participate in the supportive environ-ment.
It costs $575 to send one child to 
Hand Camp, and last year, the organi-zation funded 65 children. This year, Ruthie Dell said in a press release that she is expecting 83 families, making the goal for the upcoming fundraiser $50,000.
The fundraiser will include a vir-
tual tour of Hand Camp and a silent auction. 
UF students in Friends of Hands to 
Love, the organization’s club on cam-pus, will help with preparation, setup and cleanup.
Every year, UF students prove that 
difference does not equal disability, Ruthie Dell said. Most of the roughly 150 volunteers are from UF, and it would be difficult to run the camp 
without them, she said.
“They make the best ‘family pals,’ 
and they turn out to be great role 
models for the kids as well,” Dell said. 
“I feel like we would have a hard time 
doing the camp without them.”
Jerelyne Idica, Friends of Hands 
to Love president and a UF masters 
of occupational therapy graduate stu-
dent, has been volunteering at Hand 
Camp for six years.
“What keeps me coming back is 
seeing the kids come back stronger, 
even with differences,” Idica, 24, said. 
“They are able to see that their differ -
ence is not a disability.”Shands offers weekend camp for children with differences
AP Photo
Edward Mercer, a nonnative wildlife technician with the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commis-
sion, holds a Northern African python on Thursday in Miami.
AARON ALBRIGHT
Alligator Contributing Writer
Your shattered iPhones may live to see another 
day now that CampusFix.iT is expanding to UF.
Based out of the University of Texas at Austin, 
CampusFix.iT began in August as an on-campus 
iPhone repair business with the goal of a bringing fast, convenient service to students.
After the company’s success serving UT students 
on campus, the startup decided to expand to 18 uni-
versities throughout the country, said Ben Gallegos, 
22, a UT economics senior and executive vice presi-dent who joined the company last semester.
The concept of CampusFix.iT is simple.A student can make a repair appointment online 
and then meet a repair technician on anywhere on campus, such as Library West, at an agreed-upon time.
The repair techs also attend each respective univer-sity, so they’ll already be familiar with the campus.
The phone is repaired in front of the student and 
the process takes about 15 to 45 minutes.
Every repair comes with a lifetime warranty, Gal-
legos said.
“Students don’t always have transportation to 
make it to a repair shop,” Gallegos said. 
Though CampusFix.iT isn’t fully operational at UF 
yet, he said, it’s in the process of hiring technicians. 
The service should be ready in a couple weeks.
Caroline Armstrong, a 19-year-old UF civil engi-
neering sophomore, said she thinks the on-campus 
aspect of the company makes it more convenient and easier for students.
Currently, the college startup only services the line 
of iPhone 5 devices — iPhone 5, 5c and 5s. But it hopes to offer iPhone 6 and 6 Plus repairs in the future, Gal-legos said.
Repairs start at $100 for the iPhone 5c and $111 for 
the iPhone 5 and 5s.iPhone repair coming to campusFRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 9 
Andrés Leiva / Alligator Staff
The Perfect Spot
Emily Figueroa, a 19-year-old UF psychology sophomore, and Lindsay Burn, a 19-year-old UF elementary 
education junior, study Thursday afternoon on the North Lawn. Burn was reading the book “Egg-napped.”
HUNTER WILLIAMSON
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Locals can now explore 
the universe with a million more pixels.
Last month, the Kika Silva 
Pla Planetarium at Santa Fe College upgraded its projec-tor and its lights. The plan-etarium’s coordinator, James Albury, said the old projec-tor was outdated.
He noticed that as tech-
nology improved, many people had higher deﬁ  nition simulations on their cell-
phones.
“The hardware was no 
longer able to keep up with 
the advances our planetar-ium provider was produc-
ing,” he said. “(And) our 
computers couldn’t keep up, 
so we couldn’t... update our software.”
It was then, he said, the 
planetarium was due for an 
upgrade.
The new projector outputs 
a little more than two million 
pixels — double that of the old projector — and the new lighting fully illuminates the dome.
Albury was able to use a 
space exploration computer program to simulate ﬂ  y-ing over locations like Dis-ney World and Gainesville. When combined with the dome and the HD upgrade, the program immerses view-ers, giving them the feeling that they’re in space.
Albury said the program 
is a great way for people to experience the closest thing to space travel.  
It can serve as a visual 
learning experience as the audience travels across the galaxy, looking at detailed planets with facts about them listed across the screen.
Arielle Mance, a 34-year-
old Santa Fe astronomy freshman, said she thinks the space exploration program is 
a great visual tool that pro-
fessors can use to get stu-
dents more interested.
“I think it allows for the 
professors to be more inter-
active with their lesson plans 
because they can actually 
give a visual representation of what they’re speaking of in the moment, which is pret-ty cool,” Mance said.
Santa Fe College students 
can get free admission to the planetarium with a student ID card. Admission for UF students with a Gator 1 Card is $4. 
Tonight, the planetarium 
will host its last “Florida Skies” of the month. The event simulates the night sky.SFC planetarium 
reached for stars withnew HD projector
 IT’S RANKED SIXTH IN 
FLORIDA.
SHANNON DUDZINSKI
Alligator Contributing Writer
A recent survey listed 
Gainesville as one of the top 10 
cities for millennial job seekers in Florida.
The analysis by NerdWallet 
focused on the millennial popula-tion, millennial growth, payrolls, average price of rent and the un-employment rate, said Spencer Tierney, data analyst for Nerd-Wallet. Of the 93 cities surveyed, Gainesville ranked sixth, which is just below Miami.
“It doesn’t surprise me that 
Gainesville is high in the rank-ings,” said Drew Straitt, a UF crim-inology senior.UF plays a huge role in the mil-
lennial population and the econo-
my in general, Tierney said.
“Without the University of 
Florida in Gainesville, the total 
economy would be affected, and it could drop it in the rankings,” he said.
Andrew Romero, president of 
the Alachua County Emerging Leaders — a nonproﬁ  t organiza-
tion, strives to make Gainesville 
a thriving community for young professionals — said Gainesville has numerous resources beyond the university.
“We want to show UF stu-
dents that there is more to life in Gainesville outside the university after graduation,” he said.
The organization has been in 
Gainesville for almost 10 years, Romero said. Its aim is to help UF students achieve their career goals.“Research has shown that 
young people look at the city ﬁ  rst 
then look for a job second,” said 
Bryan Easton, the organization’s public policy chair. “Gainesville is rich in culture with many opportu-nities to experience, which easily puts us as the number one place to work.”
GNV among best for millennial jobs
Top 5 Best Cities for 
Millennial Job Seekers in Florida, according to NerdWallet: 
1. St. Petersburg2. Palm Bay3. Tampa4. Jacksonville5. Miami“Many people had 
higher deﬁ  nition 
simulations on their 
cellphones.” 
James Albury
planetarium coordinatorFRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATOR.ORG/CLASSIFIEDS ClassifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-22-71-1
1 MONTH FREE! 1 furnished BR in condo 1 
mi S of UF & on bus route, w/ own BA & walk-
in closet, laundry, sim wood flooring, pool, 
basketball, gym. $369/mo includes utilities, 
internet, etc. 352-262-3291    2-27-14-64-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
2BR APT $475/mo1BR APT $395/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    4-22-14-71-2
Deluxe, Large 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7BR apt/house, 60 second walk to UF. Remodeled, Old House charm. Central AC, washer/dryer included. Wood floors. With Parking. By Private Owner. 352-538-2181 lv message    4-22-14-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$460 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-27-14-49-2★★★ RUSTIC SPRINGS CONDO ★★★
1923 NW 23rd Blvd. 1BR 1BA $599.00/mo.
Fall Special!!Upstairs & Downstairs Avail.
Close to UF & Bus Routes, Near Dog Park,
Private Balcony, Quiet Neighborhood.
Call (352) 240-9001
4-21-14-71-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-20992-3-14-20-2
Condo Available Immediately For Rent.$650 / month incl. utilities - 1 BR/1 BRThe Oaks Condos at Oaks Mall6519 W. Newberry Road, 32605Desirable first floor unit. Walking distance to mall, dining, and RTS bus stop. Pool, gym, private laundry facility. Call (352) 219-5351 for more info.    1-30-14-2
Newly refurbished 4BR/3BA house, 1/2 block north of UF. Available immediately or ASAP. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
Brand new 2BR/1BA apt on University Ave, across from O'Connell Center. Available im-mediately. Others available for fall. K & M Properties 352-372-1509    1-30-15-17-2
3BR/3BA House w/Vaulted Ceilings, Tile/Carpet Flooring, Close to UF, Vet School, Shands Hosp, and VA. 2 Car Garage, Fenced Back Yard, W/D, Lawn Service and pest control included. Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Bus Route. Avail Feb 2015, $1375/month. 352-246-5958 or tonyc@kinetixpt.com    1-30-15-12-2
● 2BR Home $850● 2BR Condo $850● 2BR Townhouse $750Bristol Park Realty 352-367-2669BristolParkManagement.com      1-30-15-10-2
2BR/1.5BA townhouse available in Tower Village. rent($600) Interested call 3522245011 or 3526822667.    1-30-15-9-2
Norman Library Area!
Beautiful studio apt w/balcony$575 mo. 352-505-5049crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2Norman Library Area
Large, remodeled, historic 1BR w/hdwd flrs
$685 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-30-2
Sorority Row Area
Beautifully remodeled 2BR, plenty of parking
$900 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com    3-13-15-30-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR, W/D, island kitchen
$750 mo. 352-505-5049
crosskeysproperties.com     3-13-15-20-2
2BR Cottage - $700/mo
4BR House - $950/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201, 352-213-3901    
2-25-15-20-2
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-22-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
BED - FULL SIZE - $100 ORTHOPEDIC
Pillow-top mattress & box. New, unused, still 
in plastic w/warranty. Can deliver. Call 352-
377-9846        12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. 
Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-
tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can 
deliver.  12-10-169-6
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-22-14-71-10
 Goats for Sale &Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      4-22-71-10
 
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS★★★★
Great Scooters, Service & Prices!
118 NW 14th Ave, Ste D, 336-1271
Vespa, Genuine, GMW, & More! NS4L.com
facebook.com/newscooters4less
4-22-14-71-11
★★SCOOTER REPAIR★★
New Scooters 4 Less has LOW repair rates!
Will repair any make/model. Close to UF!
Pick-ups avail. Cheap oil changes!! 336-1271
4-22-14-71-11
★★★★Road Rat Motors ★★★★
Largest Scooter Store in Town! Run by Gator Grads! New scooters starting at $999. 1-2yr warranties with roadside assistance includ -
ed. 376-6275 RoadRatMotors.com   2-27-14-38-11
Road Rat Motors offers FREE pickup service for any paid scooter repair. LOWEST labor rate, quickest turnaround in town! Will repair ANY brand scooter. Free estimates. 376-6275. RoadRatMotors.com    2-27-14-38-11
★★SCOOTER RENTALS★★
Rent for a day, week, month or semester.
Now renting Buddy scooters too!   352-336-1271
www.gainesvillescooterrentals.com
4-22-14-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified
 FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015  § ALLIGATOR , 11
Campus Scooters Mobile Sales and
Scooter Service. We offer free estimates 
on all repairs and we come to you.
We also have new scooters starting at
$799.00 Call us today at 352-263-0425   
4-22-71-11
2014 scooter never ridden 50cc $700 red. 352-359-3668 
   
1-30-1-11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
●●● We Buy Junk Cars ●●● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980 or 352-215-31914-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-22-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
ALL VEHICLES 2014
3630 N MAIN ST
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                    4-22-71-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-22-71-12
GET INTO A VEHICLE $100 & UP
PAYMENTS YOU CAN AFFORD
6 MONTHS TO PAY TAX, TITLE,
& REGISTRATION FEES
352-338-1999                   4-22-71-12
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
$300 & UP!!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
ALL VEHICLES $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                  4-22-71-12
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!
FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED. Call 352-259-2020   4-22-14-71-12
91 Chevy Caprice Wagon $999
95 Toyota Camry $1250
88 Honda Civic $1250
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
352-338-1999                      4-22-71-1202 Dodge Intrepid $1750
92 Nissan Maxima $999
95 Pontiac Bonneville $1300
92 Ford Crown Vic $1999
352-338-1999                 4-22-71-12
97 Ford Contour $950
00 Dodge Intrepid $1300
92 Toyota Camry $1750
91 Chevy Blazer $699
352-338-1999    4-22-71-12
2001 Honda Civic EX - 105596 miles - $4670 
Rated "Good Condition" by Kelley Blue Book. 1-Owner vehicle. Clean CARFAX. Automatic, sun roof... email: shake.off@gmail.com    2-3-15-3-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-22-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH PAID $300 AND UP!!!
ANY CONDITION-RUNNING OR NOT!!!FREE TOWING & SAME DAY PICK-UPNO TITLE NEEDED CALL 352-259-2020    4-22-14-71-12VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
I AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:
●Rides to church: Mass at Queen of Peace.
●Learning to rake knit hats to send to Haiti & 
other places.                   Call 352-219-6948 
2-6-14-73-13 
TOP CASH PAID FOR OLD GUITARS!1920's thru 1980's Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg, And Gibson Mandolins/Banjos. 1-800-401-0440    1-30-1-13
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Advertising
Production
The Independent Florida Alligator
Advertising Production Department
is accepting applications.
Duties include graphic design and
organizational layout.
Will train, but experience with Adobe
InDesign, Photoshop and Illustrator is
preferred. Friendly work environment,
flexible schedule, with hours
between 9 am - 5 pm M-F.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be able to work summer 2015.
Fill out an application at the
front desk of The Alligator,
1105 W University Ave, M-F 9 am - 5 pm.
No phone calls, please.
Include available work schedule and
references. Previous applicants are welcome
to reapply with current schedule. EOE
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for various positions. Flexible schedules and competitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment    4-22-14-71-14
SBSG is a financial transcription companyoffering part-time work.- Create your own schedule- Competitive Production-Based Pay- Close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 65wpmApply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-165-14
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery drivers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . Apply at store or at gatordominos.com    1-30-14-30-14
DATA ENTRY / CLERICAL POSITIONFull or Part time wantedPlease apply in person5609 SW 64th StreetVeterinary Experience Ideal     2-5-15-14
12, ALLIGATOR § FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
Preschool Teacher Aide need for a Christian 
preschool afternoon shift Monday -Friday. 
DCF 45 hours and experience required. 
Please call 352-373-2901
2-2-15-7-14
ITC Defense seeking reliable student for 
10 hrs/wk @ $8.05/hr. Great resume build -
er doing government contract research & social media strategy. Send resumes to: ITCStudent@ITCDefense.com    1-30-15-6-14
Tutor needed for Algebra II
dual enrolled high school student. Female 
preferred,   $15/hr. Please email tboland97@
gmail.com 2-2-4-14 
Interns wanted for marketing/sales/strategy 
positions with 4 year old web-based market-ing company specializing in solving health record and insurance requirement integra -
tion. Currently utilized by 1000's of docs. Could lead to paid position after assessment. Send resume and letter of interest to info@dmeevaluamate.com. 1-30-15-3-14
Uf Beef Unit Needs P/T Farm Help.  
UF/SFe student, or High School sr.  Tractor/
cattle exp. preferred.  Weekends/holidays 
required.  Housing available.  352-538-1401    
2-4-5-14
Investor seeks student partner / webde -
signer to help build web-based business in 
exchange for % of business. Willing to cover expenses. Must be positive. jholifield1@gmail.com    1-30-15-1-14
Operation Catnip has an opening for a full-time Volunteer Coordinator!Job duties include: recruitment, training, and  supervision, of volunteer workforce. Must be highly organized, comfortable managing un-paid staff and able to work and communicate with diverse stakeholders. Volunteers come from all walks - the local community includes the college of veterinary medicine, university student population of 50k and a county pop-ulation of 250k. Anticipated salary of $26k. Please go to the following link to learn more and to apply for this position:http://sheltermedicine.vetmed.ufl.edu/about-us/employment/position-opening-volunteer-coordinator/     2-6-5-14
DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOW!Learn to drive for CON-WAY TRUCKLOADNO Experience Needed. Local CDL TrainingApply Today! 1-800-709-7364    1-30-1-14
Experienced OTR Flatbed Drivers earn 50 up to 55 cpm loaded. $1000 sign on to Qualified drivers. Good home time. Call: 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com. EOE    1-30-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Want to be a CNA, phlebotomist or pharm tech? Express Training offers courses, days, eve, weekend. All classes live, no videos. Call 352-338-1193 or expresstrainingservices.com  4-21-14-71-15
NEED A LAWYER?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-22-14-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one weekend.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-22-14-71-15Board your horse $375/mo.. From GV/UF 
10 minutes. Dressage, stadium, x-country, 
daytime stall, nighttime turnout. Rider hous-
ing available. Barn Family Program to miti-
gate board and rent. Lessons, schooling op-
portunities. For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome.     
2-27-14-125-15
CPR,BLS,ACLS,PALS- American Heart Assoc. Training Site. UF CPR Training 
Source. CONTACT US (800)319-5708 OR 
SAFETYNETFL.COM     2-3-14-20-15
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator 
Training! 3 Week Program. Bulldozers, Backhoes, Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement Assistance with National Certifications. VA Benefits Eligible! (866) 912-0572   1-30-1-15
Aircraft Dispatch Careers start here – Just 10 weeks training for FAA certification. Working for airlines, airports, cargo and more. Call AIM free info 866-314-5838    1-30-1-15
FLIGHT Attendant CAREERS start here – Learn how to land a job in the friendly skies and prepare for training by the airlines. Five information packed days in Orlando. Call AIM 888-242-3630.    1-30-1-15
DISH TV Starting at $19.99/month (for 12 mos.) SAVE! Regular Price $34.99 Call Today and Ask About FREE SAME DAY Installation! CALL Now! 855-588-1161    1-30-1-15
WELDING CAREERS - Hands on training for career opportunities in aviation, automo-tive, manufacturing and more. Financial aid for qualified students. Job placement assis-tance. CALL AIM 877-206-7679    1-30-1-15MEDICAL BILLING TRAINEES NEEDED! 
Become a Medical Office Assistant! NO 
EXPERIENCE NEEDED! Online training can 
get you job ready! HS Diploma/GED & PC/
Internet needed! 1-888-528-5547    1-30-1-
15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Attention Viagra Users!VIAGRA 100mg, CIALIS 20mg.40 Pills + 4 FREE for only $99. No Prescription Needed!Discreet Shipping.Call Now 1-800-224-0305     1-30-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCHOHOL? Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-972-6607    1-30-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
40th Annual Mount Dora Arts Festival, a free, top rated event, February 7 and 8 from 10 to 5. Fine art, scavenger hunt, food, music in beautiful downtown Mount Dora, FL.    1-30-1-20
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation
New Expanded Hours
Lots of info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
WWW.ALLIGATORSPORTS.ORG
Eduardo Solaeche-Gomez 
is one of 13 seniors competing in their last UF meet on Saturday. Read the story on Page 14. McElwain hires another staff member
Florida football coach Jim McElwain hired Kevin Barbay as UF’s associate director of player personnel, McElwain announced via his Twitter account (@CoachMcElwain) on Thursday.Horford makes NBA All-Star roster
Al Horford was named a NBA All-Star reserve on Thursday. The selection marks Horford’s third NBA All-Star appearance. GRAHAM HALL
Alligator Staff Writer @Graham311
Florida had a chance to beat a 
subpar Southeastern Conference 
opponent on Thursday night.
But as has been the case so of-
ten this season, the Gators failed to  seize the opportunity when it was there for the taking. 
Despite numerous opportuni-
ties to overtake the Tigers, the Gators women’s basketball team couldn’t quite make shots when it mattered most.
Florida trailed the entire 
game, yet cut the lead to just one point eight times throughout the contest, falling 68-52 to Missouri (12-9, 2-6 SEC) on Thursday night 
in the O’Connell Center.
Carlie Needles started the first 
half shooting lights-out by hit-
ting her first five shots – all three-pointers. 
But Needles would score just 
three points in the second half, all on free throws, finishing the game with 18 points on 5-of-7 shooting from the field before fouling out with less than two minutes to play.
Coach Amanda Butler said 
that the Tigers played the way Florida expected them to, but that the team didn’t do a good 
job employing the game plan that 
was prepared. 
“They really didn’t do any-
thing we didn’t expect them to do,” Butler said. “They just did 
it very well. We just had critical 
breakdowns, whether it be by not communicating or not really challenging the shot. We got shot 
in our face a couple times. Things 
I thought we did a good job pre-paring for, but obviously I didn’t do a good enough job getting us ready.”
After Needles fueled the Flor-
ida (10-11, 2-6 SEC) offense, the 
Tigers came out with a complete-ly different defensive strategy that doubled the Gators guards up top and baited the team into throwing the ball into the post.
But Florida’s forwards 
couldn’t capitalize on their op-
portunities. Haley Lorenzen and 
Ronni Williams, Florida’s prima-Needles’ scoring effort not enough as Missouri downs Florida
JORDAN MCPHERSON
Alligator Staff Writer @J_McPherson1126
Prior to Florida’s 52-50 win against 
Alabama on Tuesday, shooting guard 
Michael Frazier II said the Gators were desperate for a win.
To coach Billy Donovan, the junior’s 
choice of words were not because of UF’s three-game losing skid heading into the game at Coleman Coliseum or any of the 
team’s other struggles that have surfaced throughout the season.
Instead, Donovan 
said he interpreted Frazier’s words in the sense of being moti-vated.
“In this league and 
at the level of competition we’ve played against in our schedule, you have to have desperation,” Donovan said. “That’s not being afraid or fearful, but you gotta be so desperate to play at a high level.”Florida (11-9, 4-3 Southeastern Con-
ference)  will need to play at that high level when it faces Arkansas (16-4, 5-2 SEC) at 1 p.m. on Saturday in the O’Connell Center.
The Razorbacks, winners of their last 
three games, lead the SEC in scoring with 81.7 points per game while making 45.9 percent of their baskets from the field.
“At this point in time, you’re going to 
have two teams that play to their iden-
tity,” Donovan said. “They have a system 
in place that (Arkansas coach) Mike (An-UF basketball playing 
desperate, hosts Arkansas
SEE HOOPS, PAGE 15 DEONDRE FRANCOIS’ TWITTER 
ACCOUNT WAS HACKED, HE SAID.
RICHARD JOHNSON
Alligator Staff Writer @RagjUF
    Four-star quarterback and Florida State 
verbal commit Deondre Francois started a 
firestorm Thursday afternoon when a tweet was posted to his account @Deondre_3 that 
read “I’m officially decommiting from the 
(sic) university of Florida state.”
The news was originally confirmed with a 
position coach at IMG Academy.
After alligatorSports spoke with Francois’ 
head coach, former FSU quarterback Chris Weinke, Francois’ status was placed back up in the air. Weinke said the coach who origi-nally confirmed the report to alligatorSports was not in a position to “speak for the pro-
gram,” and at the time, Weinke had not spo-
ken to or met with Francois and he did not know whether Francois did or did not decom-mit from the Seminoles.
As Thursday afternoon turned to evening, 
the party line around Francois was that his Twitter account was hacked. FSU running back commit Jacques Patrick tweeted “every-body can relax I just talked to (Francois) and 
he is still committed to FSU! Someone had 
hacked his twitter account.”
Francois then broke a near two-hour Twit-
ter silence writing “I apologize for the incon-venience. It was a mistake. My Twitter ac-count was hacked. I am still 100% committed to FSU.”
The Gators do not have a quarterback 
committed in its 2015 signing class and a 
Francois flip in the same fashion Treon Harris 
did last season so late in the recruiting cycle from a bitter rival would be a coup for UF’s new coaching staff. 
Francois came to Gainesville on an official 
visit Jan. 23 and FSU’s coaches made an in-home visit to him three days later.Quarterback decommits 
from FSU, but not reallyRECRUITINGAaron Albright / Alligator
Carlie Needles dribbles the ball down the court during Florida’s 68-52 loss to Missouri on Thursday 
in the O’Connell Center. Needles scored a season-high 18 points in the loss to the Tigers.
Donovan
“In this league and at the 
level of competition we’ve 
played against, you have to have 
desperation. That’s not being 
afraid or fearful, but you gotta 
be so desperate to play at a high 
level.”
Billy Donovan
UF basketball coach“We got shot in our face a 
couple times.”
Amanda Butler
UF women’s basketball coach
SEE W-HOOPS, PAGE 1514, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
GRAHAM HACK
Alligator Writer @graham_hack24
The Florida-Georgia rivalry runs deep, no 
matter if you’re talking football, foosball or 
finance class.
But tonight, the institutions face off on the 
competition floor as two of collegiate gym-
nastics’ most successful programs renew 
their rivalry in the O’Connell Center.
The No. 3 Gators (2-1, 1-1 Southeastern 
Conference) enter the meet coming off a difficult defeat at the hands of the Crimson Tide, and they will be looking to show signs of improvements in front of their home fans.
Coach Rhonda Faehn said the team’s 
practice on Monday was its best since com-ing back from Winter break, and she expects 
the level of competition Georgia offers to 
provide great opportunities for her gymnasts to be challenged.“It is a very strong, competitive environ-
ment,” she said, “because you have two wonderful programs — great gymnastics all around. It is, I feel, one of the best environ-ments to have your athletes rise to the occa-sion.
“We always want to put ourselves in 
those challenges where you wanna see the athletes dig deep and have those amazing 
performances.”
Florida rose to the occasion against Geor-
gia last season when Bridget Sloan and Kytra 
Hunter posted back-to-back perfect 10s on floor in the Gators’ home-opener, leading to a school-record 49.875 in the event and a 198.05-196.70 win.
Florida has bested Georgia the last 14 
times the two teams have met counting the 
postseason, while winning the last five dual 
meets.
This year, No. 11 Georgia (2-2, 2-0 SEC) 
enters the O’Connell Center coming off its best performance of the season, notching a 196.975 in a win against then-No. 14 Ken-tucky on Saturday in which the team set season-bests in every event. 
But the Bulldogs have had a shaky first 
month of the year after already losing two of their first four meets — last week was the team’s first competition in which it did not count a fall.
Florida will be the third-straight top-15 
opponent Georgia has faced this season. 
UF freshman Alex McMurtry said she is 
looking forward to finally facing off against Georgia, a team she grew up watching when 
she was little.
“When I was younger, Georgia was the 
one on top, so in college gymnastics you 
would always hear about the Gym Dogs kil-lin’ it,” she said, “and it’s exciting to now ex-perience the other side of it.”
For junior Bridgette Caquatto, tonight’s 
meet is an opportunity to finally move past the sting of last week’s loss. She said she 
and her teammates put too much pressure 
on themselves against Alabama, and she be-lieves relaxing and enjoying the moment will be key to the team’s success.
“I think the team is just looking to get out 
there and have fun again,” she said.UF gymnastics hosts Georgia, 
ready to move past ‘Bama loss
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Bridgette Caquatto performs her floor 
exercise during UF’s win against Auburn.
MARY FRANCIS
Alligator Writer @Bymaryfrancis
With their last regular meet of the 
season, the UF men and women’s 
swimming and diving teams will com-pete against Tennessee at home in the O’Connell Center Natatorium on Sat-
urday. It will also be the final regular 
season meet for the 10 men and three women seniors on the teams, celebrat-ed as “senior day.”
Coach Gregg Troy said the meet 
will have a lot of emotional energy, be-cause for some of the seniors, it’s their last meet at home.
“It’s always big for the entire team,” 
he said. “Everyone wants the seniors to go out on a good foot.”
***Eduardo Solaeche-Gomez is a nine-
time All-American, eight-time All-Southeastern Conference selection and three-time SEC All-Freshman honoree. 
The Madrid, Spain, 
native said when he 
started swimming at 
UF, there wasn’t a 
strong unity.
“We were all really 
fast swimmers but we weren’t a team, but we found good lead-ership in older guys 
and those guys put every one togeth-
er,” he said.
“That’s when we won SEC (champi-
onship) for the first time, second time 
and now that I’m a senior, I’m just try-ing to do that with the younger guys, put everyone together and look for the same goal.”
The intermedley and freestyle 
swimmer said he will remember Troy 
and the coaches not for their words but 
their actions.
“I went through a few surgeries 
here with my eye. All the coaches re-ally took care of me,” he said. “That was really meaningful for me, because I’m the only person in my family in the country. I was about to go blind and they really helped me a lot.”
Solaeche-Gomez will apply for UF’s 
Master’s program in International Business upon graduation while train-ing for the Rio 2016 Summer Olympics in Gainesville with Troy.As for Saturday, “I would like to 
achieve a victory as a team and per-form my best in the season. That would 
be a great way to finish,” he said.
***
Shelby McLean just wants to take it 
all in on Saturday. 
“Of course I want to swim fast,” 
she said. “I want to swim fast at every meet, but it’s my last meet at home... I just kind of want to enjoy the entire meet and not just focus on my times.”
The freestyle and butterfly swimmer 
will graduate with a health education degree. McLean applied to nursing school and hopes to get accepted into the UF program.
Her favorite event is the 50-yard 
freestyle.
***Dan Wallace from North Berwick, 
Scotland, is a seven-time All-American, six-time All-SEC selection and was a three-time All-Freshman honoree.
“It’s been a great four years,” he 
said. “I’ve been fortunate enough to win the majority of my dual meets. It would be great to finish on a high and beat Tennessee as a team.”
Wallace said his main goal this sea-
son is to win the 500-yard freestyle in the NCAA Championships. 
The intermedley and butterfly 
swimmer said his favorite memory on the team is when they beat Auburn at the SEC championship his sophomore year.
“After losing to them my freshman 
year and the past 20 years, it was great to break their streak and start our own streak of winning it,” he said. 
Wallace will graduate with a degree 
in Anthropology. He plans to stay in Gainesville and train for the Rio 2016 Summer Olympics with Troy.
“When I committed here four years 
ago, I knew I would train here and swim with Scotland,” he said. “It’s ob-viously a great place to train.”
As for how the Scottish swimmer 
kept his drive over the four years, he said his constant motivator is to be the best he possibly can.
“Until I’m best in the world, there’s 
always more I can do,” Wallace said. 
Continue reading this story online at 
alligatorSports.org.Cherishing the moment: 
Seniors relive memories
Solaeche-Gomez
SWIMMING
Location: 
O’Connell CenterTime:  6:45 p.m.
TV: SEC Network“You have two wonderful 
programs - great gymnastics all 
around.”
Rhonda Faehn
UF gymnastics coachry post threats, combined to go 4-of-14 
from the field in what was a cold shoot-ing night for the entire team.
The Tigers attempted to force Florida 
to beat them from the free throw line, 
but the Gators shot the ball poorly from 
the charity stripe. 
UF couldn’t get into a rhythm from 
the line, converting just 9-of-19 free throws.
Morgan Eye, who entered the game 
needing 56 three-pointers to set the NCAA all-time mark in that category, hit two three’s while struggling with 
foul trouble. 
Eye picked up her fourth foul with 
14:24 to play in the second half, and saw 
minimal playing time before checking out for good with 3:11 to play with the Tigers up 17.
Missouri’s forwards gave the Gators 
fits in the post. Florida found itself out-rebounded 46-31, including surrender-ing 12 offensive rebounds.
Every game remaining is a must-win 
if Florida hopes to have any chance of making a second-straight NCAA Tour-nament appearance.
Yet the schedule does no favors for 
UF heading into February. Florida plays 
just two games at home next month – a 
tough contest against No. 6 Tennessee on Feb. 8 and Vanderbilt on Feb. 19.
Florida plays five of its next seven 
games on the road before returning home on March 1 to face Georgia in the regular season finale.
For Florida, the team is still search-
ing for answers as the season winds to 
a close. 
Butler said it continues to be a strug-
gle executing in games as well as they 
execute in practice. 
“It’s really baffling, because I love 
coaching them and I love how hard they work for each other in practice every day,” Butler said. “There’s still just a big gap in carry over (from practice).”FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015  ALLIGATOR, 15 
Arkansas’ Bobby Portis leads 
the SEC in scoring this year
derson) has incorporated for his time there 
and he has a belief in the way he plays. … Going into a game like that, you have to get prepared for a lot of different things.”
One player Florida will need to watch 
out for is Arkansas forward Bobby Portis.
The 6-foot-11 sophomore leads the SEC 
with 17.5 points per game and is fourth in the league with 8.5 rebounds per contest.
Portis has recorded double-doubles in 
five of the Razorbacks’ last six games and is making 54.4 percent of his shots from the field during that span.
“Clearly, he’s one of the best front court 
players in the league this year,” Donovan said. “He can do it inside and out. His ver-satility is really good and Mike gives him the opportunity to step away from the bas-ket and shoot.”
While the Razorbacks have their of-
fensive foundation in Portis and guards Michael Qualls and Rashad Madden, the Gators are still yearning for consistency on 
the offensive end.
Florida showed promise in the first half 
against Alabama on Tuesday, making 13 of 
its 26 shots to take a 35-22 lead into half-time.
But the offense sputtered in the final 
20 minutes, putting just 17 points on the board on 7-of-20 shooting.
“We’ve gotten better as the season’s gone on with teams defending us differ-
ently and adjusting to that,” Donovan said, 
“but we’ve gotta be able to, in certain situa-tions, to be able to put the ball in the basket at a higher level.”
Eli Carter, who scored a team-high 13 
points against Alabama on Tuesday, said he saw improvement in the team’s conti-nuity against the Crimson Tide.
But the redshirt junior guard also noted 
that Florida needs to play hard on a con-sistent basis for the improvements to con-tinue.
“We just got to continue to put a 
40-minute game together,” Carter said. “We haven’t done that much this year. We’ve just got to try to fight through when adversity hits.”
HOOPS , from page 13
Where: 
O’Connell Center
When: 
Saturday, 1 p.m.
TV: CBS
Series Record: 
Florida leads 16-11AP Photo
Bobby Portis enters Saturday’s game against Florida averaging 17.5 points and 8.5 rebounds 
a game. Portis has recorded a double-double in five of the Razorbacks last six games.
W-HOOPS , from page 13The Gators are 2-6 in SEC 
play with eight games leftTRACK AND FIELD
 FLORIDA IS BRINGING 32 
ATHLETES TO THE TWO-DAY MEET. KYLE BRUTMAN
Alligator Writer@KBrut13
The Florida men’s and women’s track 
and field teams travel to Fayetteville, 
Arkansas today to compete in the Razor-
back Invitational.
The Gators’ competition will include 
nine teams that are ranked in the men’s 
national poll and six that are ranked in 
the women’s pole.
Coach Mike Holloway will bring 32 
athletes to Fayetteville — nine of whom 
will be competing in multiple individual 
events.
Both of Florida’s men’s and women’s 
world-record setting 4x400 relay squads 
will be taking a rest this week. 
The quartet of Eric Futch, Jabari Hill, 
Antwan Wright and Gabriel Aird will 
represent the Gators — who moved 
down to No. 2 in this week’s poll — in the men’s 4x4, while there will not be a squad competing in the 4x4 for Florida’s 
top-ranked women.
Bridgette Owens, who sat out the 
60-meter hurdles at last weekend’s Rod 
McCravy Memorial Invitational with a cramp, will be back in action in Fayette-ville, as she will compete in the 60-meter hurdles — along with Skylar Ross-Ran-som and Ryann McEnany.
Last week’s Southeastern Conference 
Men’s Freshman of the Week, jumper Ke-Andre Bates, and SEC Co-Women’s Run-ner of the Week, junior mid-distance run-ner Claudia Francis, will both take part in this weekend’s meet.
Bates will compete in the long jump 
and triple jump, while Francis will run in the 800-meter run invitational.
This will be the first of three meets at 
the Randal Tyson Track Center for Flori-da. They return to Fayetteville on Feb. 13-14 for the Tyson Invitational, and again for the NCAA Indoor Championships on March 13-14.
The Tyson Track Center is admittedly 
home to Holloway’s most memorable moment in his tenure.
Fayetteville was the first city that Hol-
loway conquered, winning his first of 
three consecutive indoor national titles 
at Arkansas’ banner-laden venue in 2010.
Looking back on his first NCAA In-
door Championship, Holloway said that 
his team — led by Jeff Demps, Christian 
Taylor and Omar Craddock — rose above 
the expectations that other coaches at the 
national meet had predicted.
Holloway overheard a few coaches say 
that the winner will get 35 or 36 points.
“If we score only 36 points, I’m go-
ing to be really upset, because I think we could score over 50,” Holloway said.
The 2010 indoors champions ended up 
scoring 57 points, 13 more than runners-up Oregon and Texas A&M.
Florida’s latter two indoor champi-
onships on its run of three consecutive titles were also won by scoring above 50 points.Gators travel to Arkansas 
for Razorback Invitational
Florida’s stat leaders
Points — Carlie Needles (18 on 5-of-7 shooting)
Rebounds  — Ronni Williams (six)
Assists — Cassie Peoples (three)
Steals — January Miller (three)LUIS TORRES
Alligator Writer @LFTorresIII
Ryan Orr is motivated to improve on his fall season.
The sophomore golfer played in three of the four 
tournaments during the Fall portion of the season, but 
it didn’t go exactly as he planned.
“I didn’t have a great Fall,” Orr 
said. “Even though I wasn’t playing 
well, I always kept my attitude well 
and I was always positive and looking 
forward and never giving up.”
It was the ﬁ  rst time the Belleair, Florida, native 
didn’t play in each tournament during his career at 
Florida. 
In his freshman season, Orr was the lone freshman 
and just one of two Gators to compete in every tourna-ment.
After struggling in the ﬁ  rst tournament, Orr’s best 
ﬁ  nish came in the second tournament at the Wolf Run Intercollegiate in Zionsville, Indiana.
His score of 14-over-par was good enough for a tie 
for 19th place. 
Orr didn’t compete in the ensuing Tavistock Col-
legiate Invitational after struggling during qualifying.
But he was able to bounce back in the last event.During the Florida Gulf Coast Invitational, Orr shot 
an 11-over-227 after the three rounds. 
He ﬁ  nished tied for 21st. “At Old Corkscrew our ﬁ  nal event, I ﬁ  nally put a 
couple good rounds together, so that gave me some 
conﬁ  dence at the end of the semester,” Orr said.
Orr didn’t take any time off during the winter break. 
Along with others on the team, Orr ended up play-
ing in tournaments to stay competitive. 
Orr participated in the New Year’s Invitational 
where he ﬁ  nished in ninth place.
With the addition of Alejandro Tosti to the program 
in January, Orr is embracing the extra competition that Tosti brings to the team.  
“He’s a really good player,” Orr said. “It motivates 
me even more, to practice harder and get better, so he doesn’t beat me.”
As the Spring season gets underway, the Gators 
will play at one of the most famous golf courses in the 
world, TPC Sawgrass. 
The Sea Best Invitational brings top teams from 
around the country. 
Orr will be in Florida’s lineup and he will have a 
chance to put the fall season behind him.
Orr’s goals for the spring are simple. He wants to 
compete and wants the best outcome for the team in 
each tournament.     
“I’m just trying to, most importantly, play in every 
tournament,” Orr said. “Be competitive in those tour-naments, obviously try to get a win but just try to play as well as I can for the team to make our team better.”16, ALLIGATOR  FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Ryan Orr tees off on Day 2 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on 
Feb. 16 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Ryan Orr eager to improve in Spring 
UF Sports In Action This Week
Friday Saturday Sunday
Gymnastics:
  vs. Georgia at 6:45 p.m. - 
O’Connell Center
Track:
 Razorback Invitational - Fayette-
ville, Arkansas (Ends Saturday)Men’s Tennis:
 vs No. 1 USC at 10 a.m. - Ath-
ens, Georgia
Swimming and Diving:
 vs. Tennessee (Senior Day) - 
11 a.m. - O’Connell CenterMen’s Basketball:
 vs. Arkansas at 1 p.m. - 
O’Connell CenterMen’s Tennis:
 vs. No. 4 UCLA at 10 a.m. - 
Athens, Georgia
Women’s Basketball:
 @Vanderbilt at 4 p.m. - 
Nashville, TennesseeUF GolfHis best ﬁ  nish was 19th in Fall season 