We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 12 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015
Gators emphasizing togetherness 
through discipline
Four players were suspended for Saturday’s 
season opener, pg. 13
Yon Hall opening adds more space for HPP 
students
The grand opening is Friday, pg. 3
UF professor inducted into bug Hall of Fame
He worked with bugs for 40 years, pg. 5Post-Labor Day photo story
Gainesville goes back to work after a long 
weekend, pg. 8
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
Back from Break
Katrina Lane, a 25-year-old technical research assistant at the McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity, pins down 
taxidermied butterﬂ  ies Tuesday after a day off in celebration of Labor Day. “I watched the rain and just relaxed at home before going back to the same routine, ” Lane said.By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
In the “2016 U.S. News and 
World Report,” UF ranked 47th 
nationally among public and pri-vate universities, which is one ranking above last year’s. Three other universities tied with UF.
Other Florida universities were 
also ranked nationally: the Univer-sity of Miami (51), Florida State University (96), the University of South Florida (156), Florida Insti-tute of Technology (161) and the 
University of Central Florida (168).
“The new ‘U.S. News’ rankings 
are very encouraging for future de-
velopment in the Gator Nation,” said Student Body President Jose-lin Padron-Rasines. 
UF ranked 14th in the top 30 na-
tional public universities, 13th out of 142 colleges and universities for best online-degree programs and 
29th out of 156 colleges and uni-
versities for best undergraduate business program. The university also ranked 18th out of 21 in the report’s ﬁ  rst ranking of the most innovative schools.
The report evaluated schools 
mainly on school ofﬁ  cials’ state-ments, graduation and retention rates and faculty resources, ac-
cording to its website.
UF President Kent Fuchs said 
he expects UF to move up in rank-
ing.
“Our aspirations are to consis-
tently be in the top 10 of public universities,” Fuchs said. “It’s a matter of time.”Rankings released, UF best college in Florida
By Graham Hall
Alligator Staff Writer
ghall@alligator.org
The Stephen C. O’Connell Center’s planned 
renovations will move ahead in October.
The project will cost an estimated $64.5 
million, with construction ﬁ  rm Brasﬁ  eld & Gorrie handling the overhaul, according to a 
University Athletic Association press release.
The O’Connell Center is anticipated to re-
main open and fully operational until Spring 
2016, when construction will increase.
Renovations are expected to be completed 
by December 2016. UF commencement cere-monies for Spring 2016 will be held at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Commencement ceremonies 
for Summer 2016 will be 
held at the Phillips Center 
for Performing Arts.
The renovation design 
process began July  2014, and an original start date was scheduled for March 2015. The project was de-layed for a year in February due to its aggressive sched-
ule, rising costs and change in construction management, according to Alligator archives.
The planned renovations include new con-
cession stands, club seating and a club lounge, according to Alligator archives. A video board will be replaced, chair-back seats will be in-stalled, and all ofﬁ  ces and locker rooms will be renovated, in addition to the concourse and exterior.
“The total expected cost also includes fur-
nishings, ﬁ  xtures, signage, garbage cans and all those other things,” said UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes.
UF does not anticipate trafﬁ  c ﬂ  ow being af-
fected by construction. The renovations will displace the UF men’s and women’s basketball teams for early non-conference games of the 2016-17 season, according to the UAA. O’Connell 
to continue renovations
THIS IS THE SECOND YEAR 
IT’S BEING HELD.
By Spencer Harvey
Alligator Contributing Writer
    
Gainesville residents can celebrate the 
middle of the week today with free chicken and sweet tea.
Starting 6 p.m. today, The Coop, located at 1620 W. University Ave., will offer each customer a glass of sweet tea, three chicken tenders and a choice of dipping sauce for the second year in a row. While scheduled to end at 9 p.m., the event will last until supplies run out.
“It’s something to get the new freshmen, 
the new people in town who haven’t tried our food yet, to try our food for free and to get their foot in the door,” said Darren Kay, The Coop’s owner. He said second helpings are al-lowed, as long as customers go to the end of the line. In preparation for the event, Kay said they ordered 40 cases of chicken, which each contain roughly 200 chicken tenders.
Brian Turney, an 18-year-old UF health 
science freshman, said he thought many 
freshmen would become regular customers 
after the event.
“I think that it is a good idea,” said Tur-
ney, who ate at The Coop for the ﬁ  rst time Tuesday. “Free food is always a good idea.” The Coop to oﬀ  er free chicken, sweet tea UF’s rank increased
CAMPUS
Sikes
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015
T oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will celebrate the 
heroes in our lives — both real 
and fantasy — Friday from 
8 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Reitz Union. The event will feature a rock 
wall, four-person tumbler, vid-
eo games and the Multicultural Greek Council Showcase: Nourishing the Roots of our Culture. GatorNights will also 
host the movie “Avengers: 
Age of Ultron” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end 
with free BBQ during Midnight 
Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 cards. Attendees must be current students to par-
ticipate. Students may bring a 
maximum of one guest to the event.
Source Program
The Source Program is a mul-tidisciplinary clinic at the UF Levin College of Law that serves victims of domestic, 
dating and sexual violence. 
The program provides free and confidential legal representa-tion, mental health counseling 
and case management. Legal 
interns litigate issues such as immigration and restraining orders for protection against domestic violence. The pro-
gram also has a social worker 
who specializes in intimate partner violence and provides counseling to clients. Lastly, 
the program’s victim advocate 
helps with navigating the legal system and providing valuable community resources. If you or anyone you know wish to 
contact the clinic, please call 
352-273-0805 or email drake@law.ufl.edu.
Biking Thru Addiction Bike 
RideRegister for the Biking Thru Addiction Fun Bike Ride to raise awareness of recovery in 
our community and support 
Metamorphosis of Alachua County, a community-based, residential treatment program.  
The ride begins Sept. 19 at 
9 a.m. at Boulware Springs Nature Park and will utilize the beautiful, 10-foot-wide, 
paved Gainesville-Hawthorne Trail. While the trail is 32 
miles round trip, you can ride 
whatever distance you’re com-
fortable with. Remember, this is a fun ride. Packet pickup will start at 8 a.m. at Boulware Springs.
There will be prizes, food and 
drinks, sponsor booths and more once the cyclists return to Boulware Springs. Use cou-
pon code “alligator” to save 
$10 during registration.
SCREAM Theater Performance
SCREAM (Students Challenging 
Realities and Educating 
Against Myths) Theater from Rutgers University is a peer- educational, interactive pro-
gram that uses improvisational 
theater to educate on inter-personal violence. The belief behind this method is that by creating a conversation about 
campus sexual assault, we can 
create safer communities and prevent these crimes from ever occurring. SCREAM Theater 
focuses on bystander interven-
tion, which urges all members of the community to get in-volved when they know some-thing is wrong. There will be 
a SCREAM Theater program on 
Sunday from  2 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Gator Wesley Center, 1380 W. University Ave. It will 
include a skit on the issue of 
sexual assault as well as an “in”-and “out”-of-character Q&A with audience.
UFIC Study Abroad Fair
The UF International Center 
invites students and faculty 
to learn about current stud 
abroad programs Sept. 16 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the Plaza 
of the Americas. At the UF 
study abroad fair, students can 
learn more about the array of 
study abroad options available to them. The UFIC staff will 
be available to explain the ap-
plication process and help stu-
dents find the right program 
for them. For additional information 
about the study abroad fair, 
visit ufic.ufl.edu or contact 
Alexis Weisman at aweis-
man@ufic.ufl.edu.
Workshop on Academic 
Engagement with Cuba
The UF Center for Latin 
American Studies, UF Cuba Program, UF International Center and the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences invite you to attend a work-shop on academic engage-ment with Cuba on Sept. 29 from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. at the UF International Center. The workshop is free and open to the public but registration is required. To reserve your seat, please visit EventBrite.com (search: Workshop on Academic Engagement with 
Cuba).
The 2015 Global Culture 
Photography Competition
UF students, faculty, staff and alumni who traveled abroad, 
or UF international students 
or scholars, are eligible to en-ter the 2015 Global Culture Photography Competition. First-prize winners will each 
receive $100, second-prize 
winners will receive $50 and third-prize winners will re-ceive $25. Total prizes will 
equal $525.
The submission period ends Oct. 9. For more information, please visit ufic.ufl.edu/PD/photocontest.html or email 
mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to afigueroa@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-
mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In a story published Tuesday titled "Santa Fe singers, lo-cal choir perform with Tony-
award winner," the last song 
in the performance was “Lean On Me.” The Alligator initially reported otherwise.VOLUME 110 ISSUE 12
HIGH  90° LOW  72°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Alyssa Fisher, aﬁ  sher@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org  
Managing Editor / Online Jordan McPherson, 
jmcpherson@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 University Editor Ansley Pentz, apentz@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Graham Hall, ghall@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Ariana Figueroa, Alyssa Fisher
  Jordan McPherson, Zach Schlein  
 Photo Editor Nicole Gomez, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Danielle Veenstra, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
 Blogs Editor Jordan McPherson, 
  jmcpherson@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mary Grace Henley, Grace Hudgins
 Copy Editors T aylor Bello, Kristine Janata, 
  Shari Linn, Melissa Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Eric Koblick, Christian Mayorga,   
  Ana Puyana, Eva Sailly,    
  Nadine Rae Saladino, Makayla Thomas,   
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
Editorial Production Staff Lauren Johnson, Rebecca Kravetz, 
  Vanessa PuelloWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   3
 Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff 
Jamie Harshman, a 21-year-old UF business and mechanical engineering senior, walks his bicycle to the 
bike rack located at the entrance of Yon Hall Tuesday. The newly renovated building will have its grand opening on Friday at 9 a.m. 
IT WAS ORIGINALL Y 
BUILT IN 1966. 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
Students in the College of Health 
and Human Performance will soon 
have a new space to perform re-search, take classes and study.
Although Yon Hall was con-
structed in 1966, the space has been renovated so the college is celebrat-ing its grand opening at 9 a.m. Fri-day, said Michael Reid, dean of the College of Health and Human Per-formance.
“The ﬁ  nished work and the walls 
and the layout and the academic purpose of that ﬂ  oor is completely 
new,” he said. “It’s a grand opening 
in a lot of ways.”
New research and classroom 
space for all three Health and Hu-man Performance departments — health education and behav-ior, tourism recreation and sport management, and applied physiol-ogy and kinesiology — are part of 
the $1.4 million renovation, wrote 
Christine Coombes, the director of communications for HHP, in an email.
Concerns including structural is-
sues, leaking pipes, problems with the electrical system and asbestos came up during renovation.
These issues have been taken 
care of, Reid said.
He said the college has been un-
able to recruit at the national level because of the state of its facilities. 
“[Yon Hall] gives us a chance to 
really grow our research program,” Reid said.
The department of tourism, rec-
reation and sport management will house its Laboratory for Athlete and Athletics Development and Research in Yon Hall, and applied physiology and kinesiology will have additional 
research space for the Applied Neu-
romechanics Lab, Coombes said.
UF applied physiology and ki-
nesiology senior Nicole Vesely said she often researches in the neuro-mechanics lab. She said she’s look-ing forward to doing her research at Yon Hall.
“I think it’ll be really beneﬁ  cial 
for students and faculty alike to have that extra space,” the 21-year-old said. Yon Hall opening adds more space for HPP students 
LOCAL
By Chelsea Stromfeld
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hunting season is approaching, and bears 
are the primary target.
The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conserva-
tion Commission recently approved a quota 
for the upcoming bear hunt in four parts of the state from Oct. 24 to Oct. 30. Hunters will be allowed to kill up to 320 animals in the East Panhandle and in North, Central and South areas of Florida.Gainesville and Ocala, which are part of 
the central section, will most likely see hunt-
ers in October because of the large bear pop-
ulation in Ocala.
“One of the biggest (areas) is Ocala, 
North Ocala National Forest toward Lake 
City,” said Matt Bledsoe, the assistant park 
manager at Paynes Prairie.
According to the Florida Fish and Wild-
life Conservation Commission’s most recent 
survey in 2014, the Ocala and St. Johns ar-eas had an average of 1,297 bears that year compared to the 1,025 bears in 2002, a 27 percent increase.
Some students are not looking at the 
FWC’s decision as a positive one.
“As we push forward in the future being 
a so-called ‘eco-friendly’ age, we need to 
be adaptive in all aspects of the nature that 
is around us, not against it,” said Melissa 
Franklin, a 20-year-old UF biomedical engi-
neering junior.
However, Will Rembert, 21, said he be-
lieves the population of black bears is in-creasing so rapidly that they will soon push 
into cities like Gainesville unless people hunt them. After a black bear wandered into his friend’s backyard 30 minutes from Gainesville, Rembert said he thought bears might seem cute, but are not animals to mess with.
“Someone has got to do it,” the Santa Fe 
forestry freshman said. “Populations need to be controlled. The only way to control them is to allow people to kill them. ”  FWC allows hunters to kill 320 bears this season4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gators now have a new place for 
their Swamp-decor needs.
Kirkland’s, a chain home-decor store, opened Sept. 1 in Butler Plaza. 
The new location replaced half of the building that belonged to Barnes and Noble until it closed nearly two years ago.
“Kirkland’s is a unique store be-cause we pride ourselves on making the customer feeling welcome,” said David Malta, a store manager.
The store opened Sept. 1 for a 
family-and-friends event, announced through word of mouth, but it will host a grand opening on Saturday.
The event, which will run from 9 
a.m. to 3 p.m., will feature a raffle for gift cards, snacks and refresh-ments, and coupons valid only for that day.
“So far, from the time between 
the soft opening and the grand opening, we’ve had a wide range of customers from college students 
to senior citizens,” Malta said. Dur-
ing this period, management trained new employees and improved the store’s layout for the grand opening.
The store will soon add more 
orange-and-blue items to accommo-date the Gator spirit in apartments and dorms.
“Specifically for Gainesville, we 
have Lake Wauburg artwork (for sale),” Malta said. “I expect we are going to get more University of Flori-da theme-type merchandise.”
For some students, the grand 
opening will be a chance to add to their new college rooms.
“I am so excited to make my 
dorm room look incredible, and 
I’m looking forward to getting new 
decorations at the grand opening,” said Merin Thomas, 18, a UF biology freshman.
The store also offers employment 
opportunities for students. Aurora Lillard, a Kirkland’s sales associate and UF English junior, said she felt the management at Kirkland’s ap-
preciates her academic workload.
“I like working here,” Lillard, 21, 
said. “Because it’s a new store, it is 
more tight-knit. We all built up the store together.”
Andrea Cornejo / Alligator Staff
The new Kirkland’s home decor store opened in Butler Plaza on 
Sept. 1. Its grand opening will take place on Saturday.
New store offers more Gator decor
HE IS NOW A DISTIN -
GUISHED ALUMNI 
PROFESSOR.
Priscilla Osorio
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hartmut Derendorf flew all 
the way from Germany in 1981 
for two years of teaching experi-
ence at UF. Little did he know, 
he’d be a Gator for more than three decades.
Derendorf, a professor of bio-
pharmaceutics, pharmacokinet-ics and clinical pharmacokinet-ics, has recently been awarded the Distinguished Alumni Pro-fessor Award, which gives him 
an extra title of UF Alumni As-
sociation distinguished alumni professor.
“I was very, very honored,” 
he said. “This is a very presti-gious position, and I like to do the best I can to promote the university, so I was very, very happy.”
Derendorf has been published 
in more than 440 scientific publi-cations and given more than 850 national and international pre-
sentations within his field.
Tim Walsh, assistant vice 
president of Alumni Affairs, said 
Derendorf will serve as a non-voting member of the Alumni 
Association board of directors 
for the next two years.
“We can tell by his presen-tation that he will connect with our alumni and friends during the next two years while he’s the 
distinguished alumni professor,” 
Walsh said.
Shannon Sumerlin, the senior 
director of constituency engage-
ment at UF, is another board 
member who contributed in awarding Derendorf.
“One of the very unique 
qualities that Dr. Derendorf has 
is that he is a Gator through and 
through, and he has a really unique Gator story himself,” Su-merlin said.
Amelia Deitchman, a third-
year UF doctoral student in phar-maceutical sciences, is one of Derendorf’s former interns and students, and she is now one of 
his teaching assistants.
Deitchman, 25, said Deren-
dorf is an easygoing, positive 
professor. He’s responsive and 
attentive to his students, despite 
having a lot of responsibilities.
“Dr. Derendorf, I would say, 
is probably the best mentor any-body can ask for in their Ph.D.,” 
Deitchman said.UF prof awarded by 
Alumni AssociationBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
The final day of qualifying and slating, 
where students chose to run with a Student 
Government political party, had the highest turnout.
UF Supervisor of Elections Sam Book wrote 
in an email that 278 students chose to run with Impact Party, 63 with Access Party and none chose to run as an independent for the Fall 2015 SG elections.
Students were not able to run with major-
ity party, Swamp Party, because the party did not register to run candidates for the upcoming elections.
Rick Garcia, 19,  ran with Access in Spring 
and is running with it again for Fall to represent District B. He said he chose Access because it stands for transparency and accountability.
“You can’t give up just because you don’t 
win once,” the public relations sophomore said.
David A. Rodriguez chose to run with Im-pact because of his fraternity.
“A lot of the brothers were involved in Im-
pact,” the biology freshman said.  
Both parties will notify candidates if they 
have been chosen by Thursday.
Students must prove their residency on 
Thursday by providing either certified mail de-
livered by postal service, an Alachua County 
voter registration card, an original copy of their lease, an original copy of utility or cable bill prior to qualifying, an original copy of a prom-issory note or lease from a fraternity or sorority house, an original copy of their homeowner’s insurance, or an original copy of a warranty deed.Last day of SG slating sees largest student turnout
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
 A debate was sparked when senators 
suggested changing the name of the Reitz Union North Lawn to “Global Garden” at Tuesday night’s UF Student Senate meet-
ing.
The resolution would encourage UF to 
consider renaming the North Lawn, but it 
would not change the name of the lawn yet.
Sen. Jason Richards (District C, Impact) 
spoke on behalf of the bill’s author, Sen. Uttam Gaulee.
Sen. Dwayne Fletcher (Springs, Access) 
proposed waiting to discuss the bill until the author was present, but this was voted down.
“His idea is not only for this to be a 
symbol but get artifacts from different na-
tions,” Richards said.
The idea is to reach out to global embas-sies to get artifacts donated, Richards said.
Some senators asked Richards how ar-
tifacts would be protected and where they 
would be displayed on the North Lawn.
Although Richards did not have the an-
swers to these questions, he encouraged senators to pass the resolution to show the university that the Senate supports it.
Minority Party leader Michael Christ 
(Graduate, Access) agreed.
“It sounds really amazing,” he said. “It 
sounds better than the North Lawn.”Another hot topic was whether Infinity 
Hall should have its own district senator.
Christ opposed the Fall 2016 Reappor-
tionment, which would include Infinity Hall in District A’s representation.
Because Infinity has an on-campus zip 
code, it should have on-campus represen-tation in the Senate, Christ said
Sen. Charlie Brown Jr. (Agriculture, 
Swamp) supported having Infinity repre-
sented in District A.
Both resolutions passed after debate.Student Senate passes resolution to rename Reitz lawn“This is a very prestigious 
position, and I like to do 
the best I can to promote the 
university, so I was very, 
very happy.”
Hartmut Derendorf
biopharmaceutics professorSlating by the Numbers
579 students have qualified
468  chose to run with Impact
109 chose to run with Access
Two  chose to run as independents
CAMPUSParties will choose by Thurs.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   5
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
Stinky Situation
Gainesville Regional Utilities workers repair a collapsed sewage line at the intersection of North-
west Sixth Street and Northwest Seventh Avenue. “It’s pretty boring stuff, ” one of the workers said. 
CRIME
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Gsabella@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a Bre-
vard man Monday night after he re-
portedly caused a four-car accident while under the inﬂ  uence of alcohol.
About 9 p.m. Monday, Brandon 
S. Dees, 34, reportedly hit a car while traveling north on 13th Street, causing a chain reaction, according to a police report. Dees reportedly switched lanes from left to right and hit another car, according to the re-port.
He reportedly 
caused $5,000 in damages to the car and another $8,000 in dam-ages to his own 
car, according to 
the report. 
The car that 
Dees reportedly hit was pushed for-ward, causing two more cars to col-lide and another $5,250 in damages, according to the report. Dees, sitting in the driver’s seat, reportedly said “I’m f*****d” several times while refusing medical services and trying to move the car’s gears, according to the report. Dees reportedly leaned against the car to walk from the driver’s side door to the back pas-senger’s side door, according to the 
report. He reportedly refused to take 
a breath test several times. Police ar-rested Dees on a charge of DUI with damage to property and another for refusal to take a DUI test. 
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains without bond.
 GPD arrest Brevard man for DUIHE  HAS WORKED WITH 
BUGS FOR 40 YEARS. 
By Alexandra Fernandez
Alligator Staff Writer
afernandez@alligator.org
After getting up-close and per-
sonal with cockroaches, termites, ﬂ  eas and other household pests for 40 years, UF entomology professor Philip Koehler is being granted the 
biggest honor in the pest manage-
ment industry.
Koehler will be inducted into 
the Pest Management Professional Hall of Fame on Oct. 19 at a black-tie event in Nashville, Tennessee.
“It’s kind of an afﬁ  rmation of 
what we’ve been doing has been extremely important for the pest-
management industry world-
wide,” he said. “You don’t think about it, but the industry here in Florida is extremely important.”
He said he doesn’t take full 
credit for the honor and instead 
sees it as an accomplishment by 
his students.
Heather Gooch, managing edi-
tor of Pest Management Profes-sional magazine, said the induc-tion committee chose Koehler because of his research contribu-tions and excellent student men-toring.“I think when they started look-
ing at his four decades of teaching and helping and mentoring and so forth,” she said, “they realized that he has really brought forth a lot of other big names in the en-tomology industry from University of Florida.”
After spending time as a U.S. 
Navy entomologist, Koehler came 
to UF in 1975, where he branched 
out to studying cockroaches, ants, termites and ﬂ  eas — “all the things that people don’t want to have around their house,” he said.
His wide range of interests is 
something rare in the entomology community, said Brittany Camp-bell, a UF doctoral entomology 
student studying bedbugs. She has 
worked with Koehler for about a year.
“A lot of people focus on one or 
two insects,” the 27-year-old said. “He’s a well-rounded entomolo-gist.”
Despite being a world-re-
nowned entomologist, Campbell 
said Koehler is still willing to help 
his students in stressful situations.
“He can empathize with you,” 
she said. “He has a good men-tality about handling things and can turn anything into a joke and make you feel like it’s going to be OK.”
Koehler said he has helped al-
most 100 students achieve mas-ter’s and doctorate degrees.
“I think [being inducted into 
the hall of fame] will encourage students to understand that what they’re doing is extremely impor-tant,” he said. UF entomology pro-
fessor inducted into bug Hall of Fame 
Dees
““A lot of people focus on one 
or two insects. He’s a well-
rounded entomologist.”
Brittany Campbell
UF doctoral entomology studentThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Polarization of 
police politics is no 
excuse for violence
On Sunday, two police officers in Las Vegas were 
shot at with a semi-automatic handgun while sit-ting at a stoplight. Thankfully, both officers made 
it out alive, with one suffering only a bullet to the 
hand. The suspect was apprehended, although no 
motive has been released to the public.
Sunday’s incident has been the latest in a string of un-
provoked cop killings. In August, Darren Goforth, a sher-iff’s deputy in Harris County, Texas, was executed while pumping gas. More recently in Fox Lake, Illinois, Police Lt. Charles Joseph Gliniewicz was shot and killed in a remote area while on duty.
The Alligator has not been shy about publishing its res-
ervations over modern policing techniques. Although the deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garner last year served as the proverbial straws that broke the camel’s back, this is a 
debate that has been stewing in the U.S. for a long time and 
seems to reach a fever pitch every decade or so.
Concerns over modern policing have even reached 
Gainesville. In April, Lucas Jewell, a 23-year-old Alachua County resident who ran in the Gainesville City Commis-
sion election in March, was pulled over by an armored po-
lice vehicle after purportedly flicking them off. Regardless of whether he did it, there is no justifiable reason for using an armored police vehicle to corner and interrogate a non-
violent private citizen.
Likewise, no matter how much police have drawn the ire 
of many in this country, there is no scenario where wanton 
murder is a reasonable response to public grievances. These crimes have only served to further heighten the tensions 
that currently exist between this country’s police officers 
and its citizens. 
Just as many citizens fear what may happen to them 
if they irritate the wrong police officer, these high-profile 
cases have given police officers even more reason to view 
every citizen as a potential threat. This creates a feedback loop of aggravation, violence and hate that brings the U.S. no closer to remedying the very real issues that lie at the core of how police officers conduct themselves.
It is easy to categorically demonize an entire occupation 
of people, especially when many who belong to that occu-pation have brought about tragedy and engaged in patently criminal behavior. However, doing so would deny police 
officers their humanity. 
Darren Goforth did not choke Eric Garner. Charles Jo-
seph Gliniewicz did not brutalize Freddie Gray. These were 
men who were murdered doing their jobs, and they deserve the same respect as any individual who suffered a needless 
death.
Violence begets violence: It’s an aphorism as old as time 
itself, and there is no reason why it shouldn’t hold true 
today.Multilingualism is not as scary as the GOP thinks
In a recent interview with CNN, Carly Fiorina stated that despite admiring Jeb Bush’s mul-tilingualism, English is the official language 
of the U.S. She seems to have forgotten that 
there are many cultures and languages repre-
sented within the U.S., each deserving to be un-derstood and valued. While English is undoubt-
edly the default language, that doesn’t mean it is 
the official one.
Some members of the Republican Party take 
Fiorina’s views even further, believing that bilingualism is bad for American society. It takes a certain amount of cul-
tural arrogance to believe that children in the U.S. shouldn’t 
have to learn foreign languages. While students in other countries start learning foreign languages as early as age 6, many students in our country do not start to learn a foreign 
language until high school. 
Even those who receive good grades in those classes of-
ten end up with little to no proficiency in the language over 
the long term.
Learning languages promotes cultural understanding 
across the board. Speaking only one language narrows the amount of media one can consume, allowing for a skewed and one-sided understanding of the world. Learning about language and culture often go hand in hand, and it is often 
hard to understand the nuances of culture without speaking 
the language. For example, take the media coverage of the animosity between Russia and Ukraine. None of the major networks distinguished between ethnic Russians who speak Russian, Ukrainians who speak Russian, and Ukrainians 
who speak Ukrainian. These were important distinctions to 
make in this instance, as there were a number of ethnic Rus-sians in Crimea who wanted to be annexed into Russia. 
Those who speak, or at least learn, some Spanish under-
stand that every country that speaks Spanish possesses its own unique words and phrases. Anyone who has taken a Spanish class probably knows this, even if they are not fluent. Often Spanish speakers get lumped into one group, although not all Spanish-speaking 
cultures are the same.
If English were to be made the official lan-
guage of the U.S., it would take away resources 
from individuals whose English proficiency is 
lacking. They would be disconnected from what 
goes on in their children’s schools or their gov-ernment.
The “us vs. them” mentality that would be imposed by 
making English the official language is also extremely coun-
terproductive. Like it or not, people who don’t speak English 
live in the U.S., and learning a new language as an adult is hard. Children who go to American schools will learn English, but their parents might not. Yes, their lives would 
be much easier if they knew English, and they deserve ac-
cess to resources that would help them learn English if they chose to do so, but in the meantime, two-way communica-tion is still necessary. Those who have limited proficiency in English still deserve access to health care, education, forms 
and contracts in their native language. Not knowing what is 
going on when they receive a letter from their child’s school because it is in a language they do not understand only serves to frighten and alienate people, not “motivate” them 
to learn more English.
Multilingualism should be encouraged. Discouraging the 
learning of other languages makes English seem like the su-
perior language, feeding into anti-immigrant ideologies. The truth is there are people with limited English proficiency 
who live in the U.S., and they make valuable contributions 
to society. Offering resources in languages other than Eng-lish is an essential first step towards enabling those commu-nities to become even more valuable.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column usually appears on Mondays.
Alyssa Fisher
EDITORAriana Figueroa
Jordan McPherson
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   7
As we take pause Friday 
to reﬂ  ect on the horrors of terrorism and to com-
memorate the victims 
of the Sept. 11 attacks, 
our outrage and grief are morally obliged to cross national boundar-
ies. The tragedies of Sept. 11 pro-
vide an opportunity for us to reﬂ  ect on human cruelty, as well as the role the U.S. plays on a geopolitical scale.  
In America, Sept. 11, 
2001, brought terror and terrorism to the forefront of our national dialogues 
and even our personal 
fears. But many citizens of the Global South were already acquainted with terrorism, and the men-
tion of Sept. 11 for them 
recalls a different tragedy that oc-curred 28 years prior.
On Sept. 11, 1973, with the 
backing of the U.S. under President Richard Nixon, then Commander in Chief of the Chilean Army Au-gusto Pinochet staged a coup d’état, resulting in the ﬁ  rebombing 
of the presidential palace and even-
tual death of Chile’s democratically elected President Salvador Allende.
Pinochet quickly consolidated 
power and ruled Chile with an iron ﬁ  st for 17 years. 
His regime is infamous for 
widespread intimidation, torture, “disappearing” and frequent as-
sassinations of both political op-
ponents and civilians. Though the horror of Pinochet’s dictatorship was acknowledged throughout the 
world, he enjoyed the moral and 
political support of important allies like the U.S. and Great Britain.
Former British Prime Minister 
Margaret Thatcher, a classic icon 
of conservatism, told Pinochet 
even after he had been deposed, “it is you who brought democracy to Chile,” and former U.S. President 
Ronald Reagan did not sever rela-
tions with his brutal dictatorship until 1986.
The historical memory of 9/11 
in Chile, and by extension the 
Global South, indicates the extent 
to which Americans remain igno-rant of regional history or perhaps just morally unconcerned by atroc-
ities conducted with the blessing of 
their country.
For as atrocious as Pinochet’s 
terror was, the aftermath of Sept. 11, 2001, proved even grimmer, 
though this has been covered up 
in plain sight. Neither Pinochet nor those who attacked the U.S. on Sept. 11 could ever have aspired to 
wage slaughter on the scale per-
petrated by former U.S. President George W. Bush and his cronies in Iraq.
When we look at the numbers 
and the casualties, it is clear that the so-called ‘War on Terror’ un-leashed terror and destroyed in-nocent lives by measures that even 
the most sadistic terrorist organiza-tions are incapable of.
When we stop to critically con-
sider these two historical episodes, we see how diplomatically unﬁ  t 
the U.S. is in the modern era. 
We also see how inappropriate 
and lacking our concept of terror-
ism is.
It’s one thing to make a dra-
matic pronouncement and try to 
incite terror with words 
as groups of deranged 
radicals are wont to 
do, but it is something more wholly monstrous to proclaim peace while 
destroying entire sec-
tors of humanity, as our country did in Iraq and Vietnam. Addition-ally, to provide military 
and political support 
to countless autocrats while they 
torture innocent populations, as the U.S. has done before, is as in-
sidious a form of terrorism as I can 
conceive.
Furthermore, in our climate 
where multinational corporations clamp down on poor economies 
and literally starve people to death, 
the control these faceless entities have over the poor of the world no doubt constitutes a form of terror-
ism.
As Leon Trotsky wrote, “Their 
[the bourgeois class] entire state 
apparatus with its laws, police, and army is nothing but an apparatus 
for capitalist terror!”
The Reagans, Nixons, Thatch-
ers and Pinochets of the world are 
responsible for quantities of hu-
man misery that al-Qaida could 
never have achieved. Despite the terror generated by these individu-als, we never seem to acknowledge the barbarity and human suffer-
ing that came about as a direct 
result of their machinations. Sept. 11 is a very sobering episode for Americans, though most are whol-
ly ignorant of 1973 and morally 
nonplussed by our military’s mis-adventures in Iraq.
With the commemoration of 
any tragedy, we remember and 
honor the memory of those who 
fell victim to terrorism, but in light of America’s history, we should not be duped by propaganda and 
think that, as a diplomatic entity, 
the U.S. has solely played the role of the victim.
Rather, per an honest analysis 
of our history, we can grasp that 
the traditional portrayal of terror-
ism as a function of crazed rebel groups is fragmented, in that some of the most horriﬁ  c acts of terror 
have emanated from politicians 
and generals who operated within the structure of the law. History will not absolve them.
May all victims of terrorism rest 
in peace.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-
year UF linguistics master’s student. His column appears on 
Wednesdays.Reﬂ  ection on 9/11 and terror                                                                                      Column
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org
It can be difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd perspective 
within the myriad of obligations one faces as a student, combined with the 
sheer amount of information the aver-
age person is inundated with on a dai-
ly basis. This is enough to make anyone feel overwhelmed as the semester picks up 
speed going into the autumn months.
How can we get a grip on our lives when 
there’s so much going on in our worlds? 
One strategy I ﬁ  nd useful when I feel swamped by 
school work, life events and the like is to examine 
my actions in relation to the big picture, the grand 
scheme of things. Adopting this view is useful, in 
my opinion, because it helps individuals size-up the impact of their decisions on the physical and mental aspects of their lives and determine what it is most important to them long-term. Considering 
one’s actions in this light is not only helpful, but it is 
also important in practice because even the smallest actions in a short-term window by individuals can have effects that last far longer.
Take the issue of guns and other ﬁ  rearms in 
America, for example. Weapons sales in the U.S. have been shown to spike after violent shooting events and calls for increased gun control. Many news agencies noted dramatic increases in weapons 
and ammunition sales after President Obama took 
ofﬁ  ce and spoke about gun control, after the New-town shooting and again recently after the multiple high-proﬁ  le shootings around the country that oc-
curred in August. Whether motivated by fear for 
one’s own safety or the potential impairment of the ability to purchase weapons, the point is that these sales’ booms occurred due to individuals’ reactions to short-term events without considering the per-
spective of the long-term situation.
When examined from a big-picture perspective, 
many people – including myself – might be sur-prised to know that crime in the U.S. has dropped 
by more than half in the past 25 years, according to reports from the FBI, and that violent crime is cur-rently at its lowest levels since the 1970s. 
Granted, it is easy to be subject to worry and fear 
when modern news cycles can be dominated with coverage of violent events, but a focus on the long-term factors can help clear short-term distractions that obscure the overall truth of a situation.
This adherence to the big picture can also be useful in saving oneself undue stress or emotional exertion from over-scrutinizing things in their environment that may be 
out of their control. For example, when-
ever the plaza on campus is visited by “religious advocates,” many students have strong reactions to their displays, be 
it personal offense or annoyance. These 
plaza preachers often draw crowds of hecklers and curious bystanders as they 
passionately expound their beliefs, but unless we 
have a student population burgeoning with curios-
ity of extreme viewpoints on morals and personal 
conduct, the spectacle is not worth anyone’s energy. 
With the exception of plaza guests who slander 
students or those who illicit violent reactions, the 
plaza preachers are largely ignored by a majority of campus, and their behavior only has as much of an 
effect as we allow it to on a personal level.
This is perhaps the biggest takeaway from this 
monologue: Everyone constantly makes choices on 
an individual level – how to think, how to feel, how 
to act – based on the innumerable amount of inter-
actions one has with other people and sources of information in his or her world. Regardless of how collective any person, group or culture may seem, the chief focus of everyone falls to the self on some level. With this in mind, it is easier to remember 
that you are the sole judge of how much anything 
or anyone in your environment may affect your de-cision-making on a personal level. It is up to you to fulﬁ  ll yourself as you see ﬁ  t through whatever means inspire you most, and keeping an eye on the 
big picture can help you maintain internal balance 
as you strive to do so.
A version of this column by Sean Kennedy origi-
nally ran in the Rocky Mountain Collegian.Stick to the big picture when facing diﬃ   cultiesUWire
Sean Kennedy
UWire
“Reguardless of how 
collective any person, group 
or culture may seem, the 
chief focus of everyone falls 
to the self on some level.”8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015TOP LEFT:
University Police Officer Chad 
Holway, 32, talks with a student about campus safety precau-tions and different UPD self-defense programs outside of Li-brary West on Tuesday. Holway had a family barbeque to bring in the Labor Day holiday.
TOP RIGHT:
Research assistant H. Andrew Lassiter works on a Real-Time Kinematic survey, a tech-nique that enhances GPS, near Weimer Hall on Tuesday. Las-siter said he spent Labor Day grading papers after the rain cut his outdoor research short.
MIDDLE LEFT:
AJ Coons, a 34-year-old Skan-ska employee, directs a heavy-machinery driver removing debris from the Reitz Union construction site Tuesday. Coons said he hung out with his family and ate barbeque during 
his Labor Day holiday.
BOTTOM RIGHT:
Alyssa Vocelka, a 21-year-old 
UF accounting senior, leads her Cycle fitness class at the Stu-dent Recreation and Fitness Center. Vocelka had Labor Day weekend off and spent it fish-ing in her hometown of Stuart, Florida. “I caught a giant Snook on the beach, ” she said.
Eric Heubusch / AlligatorAshley Jolicoeur / Alligator 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Eric Heubusch / AlligatorAfter a long 
weekend, 
it’s time to go
BACK 
TO WORKWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   9
STATE
By Esther Khoudari
Alligator Contributing Writer
To celebrate St. Augustine’s 
450th birthday, UF archaeologists 
are revisiting the excavation site of the oldest stone mission church in colonial Spanish Florida.
Over the course of 40 years, 
UF researchers have been sifting through the Cathedral Basilica of 
St. Augustine, said Julie Waters, 
an exhibit developer at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History.  But from Aug. 24 until Friday, UF re-searchers are revisiting the exca-
vation site, which is open to the 
public.
Any new ﬁ  ndings will be 
bagged and analyzed later, said Paul Ramey, the museum’s assis-
tant director of marketing and pub-lic relations.
An exhibit that features some of 
the church artifacts, called “First 
Colony: Our Spanish Origins,” 
is currently on display in St. Au-gustine at Government House, lo-
cated at 48 King St., until Sunday. 
The exhibit will be on display in 
Gainesville at the Florida Museum 
from Oct. 17 to April 17, said Kait-
lin Gardiner, marketing and public 
relations coordinator for the mu-
seum.
“The exhibit’s focus is to edu-
cate and inform the public about the ﬁ  rst enduring European settle-
ment — St. Augustine in 1565,” 
she said.
In addition to the artifacts from 
the church, the exhibit will include documents, utensils, pottery and 
tools from the period, Waters said.
“We hope people walk away 
with a new appreciation of learning 
and history,” she said. “Our coun-
try is much older than what people 
think.”UF researchers uncover 
St. Augustine church
“The exhibit’s focus is to 
educate and inform the public 
about the irst enduring 
European settlement — St. 
Augustine in 1565.” 
Kaitlin Gardiner
marketing and public relations 
coordinatorNicole LaReau
Alligator Contributing Writer
Queen Victoria will be strutting 
through the Gainesville Woman’s 
Club — or at least a model dressed like her will.
On Thursday, Climb for Cancer, 
a nonproﬁ  t that fundraises for on-cology programs, will host a time-period-based fashion show at the Gainesville Woman’s Club, located at 2809 W. University Ave., from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.  
The fashion show will feature 
historical medical ﬁ  gures, said Dianne Farb, the organization’s co-founder. The lineup includes Elizabeth Blackwell, America’s 
ﬁ  rst female doctor; Queen Victoria, 
who endorsed medical programs; and the wife of William Shands, the namesake of UF Health Shands Hospital.  
Farb said the organization 
hopes to raise at least $5,000 for UF Health’s oncofertility programs, which provide guidance about fer-
tility after chemotherapy. 
Farb said her friend Dr. Alice 
Rhoton-Vlasak, the head of UF 
Health’s oncofertility programs, came to her with the fashion-show fundraiser idea.
UF sustainability studies fresh-
man Abigail Vlasak, Rhoton-Vla-sak’s daughter, said she is excited 
to model a few of the 31 outﬁ  ts.
“It’s almost like dress-up,” the 
18-year-old said.
Tickets are $60 and can be pur-
chased on Climb for Cancer’s web-
site.UF Health to fundraise with fashion
IT ASKED IF PEOPLE SHOULD BE 
RESPONSIBLE FOR UNKNOWN BIASES.
By Meaghan Hanley
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF psychology doctoral student Liz Redford re-
cently published a study that found that being un-
aware of one’s racial bias is no excuse for a person’s negative actions.
The goal of the study was to determine if people 
should be held accountable for biases they’re un-
aware of. Redford said she worked with UF psychol-
ogy professor Kate Ratliff, and it was published in the British Journal of Social Psychology.
“The participants in my study seem to think that 
people have certain obligations to manage their 
mental states, like beliefs and awareness,” Redford said.
She said she believes people have a moral obliga-
tion to become aware of their racial biases because they can inﬂ  uence behavior.
UF Black Student Union president and UF tele-
communications senior Phillip Wells said he be-lieves if racial bias didn’t exist, the rate for police-brutality-related deaths would decline.
“We live in a world where ignorance can no lon-
ger be an excuse,” Wells, 21, said.UF study: Racial bias isn’t excusableMedical igures featuredWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-9-73-1
1/1 Available, in a 4 Bed, 4 Bath Condo,
Designed for college students!!$400.00 Month, utilities included. We do semester leasing. Call Frances352-375-8787 Rent Florida Realty     12-3-15-95-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1 bd in 2/1 w/ a female student. Studious at-mosphere. $425/mo includes high speed in-ternet & electric. $300 dep. Bus lines 34, 35, 36, 38. 352-631-0737    9-11-15-12-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished 
condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa and 
fitness room. $395/room, includes $50 utility 
allowance per/room. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com   9-30-15-20-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo1BR COTTAGE $495/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-9-15-73-2
●● ELLIE’S HOUSES ●●
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-11-14-169-2 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF throu gh-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
9-30-15-27-2
ALLIGATOR ALLEY
Newly Renovated 4/3 apt. home
Starting at $2,200. Parking included.
Steps to UF & Stadium.
Now leasing for Fall.
For info. call 352-872-4644.
alligatoralley@cmcapt.com
12-9-15-73-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   9-30-15-29-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.ATTENTION: VET STUDENTS, NURSING, MED STUDENTS. Close to campus, 3BR/2.5BA, new up-grade, 2-car garage + storage shed. $1300/mo. 1259 SW 21st Ave.  352-378-1221 / 352-871-4252    9-9-15-5-2
● HOUSE FOR RENT - 2927 SW 1st Ave ●
Directly across from UF Golf Coursel
4-5BR/3BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Only $1,775/month
No application fee, all pets ok.
352-258-0025
9-11-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE NOW
No deposit needed. Sublease in Fox Hollow, 
1BR/1BA, $530/mo. through Feb. Call 
Renea @ 352-318-7498    8-29-15-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-9-73-5Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BED - QUEEN - $120 ORTHOPEDICPillow-top, mattress & box. Name brand, new, still in plastic. Call 352-372-7490 can deliver.     12-10-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT - $400Brand new still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can deliver. Retail $1600. 352-372-7490        12-10-169-6
BED - KING - $200 PILLOWTOP
mattress & box springs. Orthopedic rated. Name brand, new, never been used, in plas-tic with warranty. Call 352-372-8588. Can deliver.  12-10-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-9-15-73 -10
 Goats for Sale &
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925      12-9-73-10
● 20 PIECE WILD TURKEY DECANTER 
COLLECTION (3 miniatures go with col-
lection for free.) $1500. ● VALUABLE 
PLAYBOY MAGAZINES - 2000 - 2012 . $1500.  Call Lloyd at 352-262-4390.    9-10-
5-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-9-15-73-11
●●● NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ●●●
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
12-9-15-73-11
●●●SCOOTER REPAIR ●●●
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
12-9-15-73-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified9 Bicycles 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real EstateWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2014 "GENUINE SCOOTERS",
125 CC, "BUDDY 125", NEW COST $2,750, ONLY 900 MILES, ASKING $1,750.CALL 352-401-0077            9-21-15-14-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
12-9-73-12
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     12-9-73-12SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
WE BUY CARS!1
DOES NOT HAVE TO RUN
ANY CONDITION!!
352-338-1999                  12-9-73-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 12-9-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13
98 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL $190095 PONTIAC BONNEVILLE $130088 HONDA CIVIC $125000 CHEVY CAVALIER $1250352-338-1999                           12-9-73-12
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
2007 HYUNDAI ENTOURAGELike new, 6-cyl, Front-wheel drive, gas, 115,800 mi, gold, clean title. Nice, extra clean, ready to go! Leather, sunroof, DVD, full capt chairs, running-board, loaded. $6500. 352-226-7251    9-10-5-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-9-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Candice Jones
at (352) 378-9079 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191       9-30-15-27-13ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   12-9-15-73-14
SBSG is a financial transcription company
offering part-time work.
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive Production-Based Pay
- Close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 65wpm
Apply Online: www.sbsgnv.com     12-11-14-
165-14
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
LEASING AGENT - PT
Friendly, organized, motivated, outgoing
person with good communication skills
& computer knowledge.
Must be avail. weekends.
Hourly & bonus. Great benefit pkg.
Apply in person at Hunters Crossing Apts.
 4830 NW 43rd Street      DFWP
12-9-15-73-14MULTIMEDIA SUPPORT for online course 
creation. Audio and video recording and ed-iting. Some graphic manipulation. Requires use of PowerPoint, Photoshop, Premiere and other software. Ability to learn new soft-ware and meet deadlines required. OPS or workstudy pay starts at $12.50/hr. Contact Jennifer Smith jksmith@ufl.edu    9-14-15-12
ABA Associates is seeking
graduate or undergraduates in
Psych, Special Ed, or related field
to work with individuals with developmental
disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis,
diet or exercise is a plus.
Please email Mark at lister@me.com
for more information.
9-16-15-7-14
P/T cleaner needed for offices,apartments, and homes. Must have own transportation and be able to pass a background/reference/drug test..weekly pay and hrly rate of 8.25/hr..if interested please call 352-214-0868    9-10-5-14
UF Health Shands Rehab Hospital
is a 40-bed acute rehab hospital for patients 
who have suffered strokes, traumatic brain
and spinal cord injuries, amputations, burns
or major joint replacements.
PRN & Part-time RN- requires graduation
from an approved nursing program, current
FL RN license and 1 year of RN exp. BSN
and professional nursing board certification
preferred. Job #30279 PRN,
Job #34464 part-time.
Student Patient Care Assistant positions
that are PRN (or as needed). Nursing
student currently enrolled in an approved
program for preparation of professional
nurses or licensed practical nurse - upon
successful completion of the didactic and
clinical portion of a fundamentals nursing
course. Job ID# 33389.
EOE, M/F/D/V
Apply on line at
http://jobs.ufhealth.org/careers/
9-15-10-15-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"ACROSS
1 “Hardball” station
6 McCain’s org.
9 Mardi Gras
mementos
14 São __, Brazil
15 Body spray brand
16 Baseball Hall of
Famer Murray orMathews
17 Arrange ahead of
time
18 Irish actor Stephen19 Jeans accent20 *Competition won
by a knockout?
23 Magazine fig.25 Easily led sorts26 Seminary subj.27 Kerfuffles29 Easily roused
crowd
32 Single33 Highest North
American peak,
to natives
36 *Certain cutlet
41 Not quite boil
42 Grammar class
subject
43 Slide subject46 Common motel
prohibition
47 Turned on
48 With no affection
52 Corp. bigwigs
53 *Nonviolent
revolution
57 First name on a
1945 bomber
58 SoCal team, on
scoreboards
59 Athenian with
harsh laws
62 Race with batons
63 Clean one’s plate64 Respected
church member
65 Deuce beaters66 Recently retired
NCAA footballranking system,and, as a plural,a hint to theanswers tostarred clues
67 Pitcher’s arm,
say
DOWN
1 U.S. Army cops
2 Encl. with a
manuscript3 Type of ale
4 *Dressing with
Buffalo wings
5 Nightclub of
song
6 Brooks of C&W
7 Daisy variety
8 Flower child’s
parting word
9 Swiss capital
10 Revise text
11 Sooner or later12 Semi-filling liquid13 Come to terms21 Pearl Harbor’s
__ ArizonaMemorial
22 Personality with
an online bookclub
23 Carp family fish
24 Prefix with
sphere
28 Go off-script
30 2005 Bush
Supreme Courtnominee
31 *Arm-
strengtheningreps
33 Mil. award34 L.A.-to-Tucson
dir.
35 ATM giant37 Phishing medium
38 Rollerblading
safety gear
39 José’s “this”40 Loch near
Inverness
43 Angels’ slugger
Pujols
44 Martin of “Adam-
12”
45 “Lawrence of
Arabia” Oscar
nominee46 1785-’90 U.S.
capital
49 Star50 Newton
associated with
apples, not figs
51 Exams for future
J.D.s
54 Nivea rival
55 Diary pages56 Old Greek theaters60 Average grade61 Food scrap
By Pawel Fludzinski and Amy E. Hamilton©2015 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/09/1509/09/15ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 9, 2015
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. GEOGRAPHY: In what country is 
the city of Sao Paulo located?
2. MUSIC: What singer made the 
song “Mack the Knife” famous?
3. HISTORY: When were the anar -
chists Sacco and Vanzetti executed for 
crimes that they may not have com-
mitted?
4. LITERATURE: Who wrote the 
children’s book “Charlotte’s Web”? 
5. EDUCATION: Which field of 
study has been described as “the dis-
mal science”?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which pres-
ident’s nickname was “Old Hickory”?
7. MATH: What is the decimal 
equivalent of the fraction 3/4?
8. MOVIES: What film features the 
theme park “Walley World”?
9. ASTRONOMY: In which constel-
lation is the Big Dipper located? 
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What does a sphygmomanometer measure?
Answers
1. Brazil2. Bobby Darin3. 1927  4. E.B. White5. Economics
6. Andrew Jackson
7. 0.758. “National Lampoon’s Vacation”9. Ursa Major10. Blood pressure
© 2015 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 7, 2015 King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015
Opus Coffee
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The 
ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 40 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr. 
To apply, go to our website, 
www.opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab on the bottom right, and follow the directions.    9-18-15-9-14
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!w
352 Inc. is looking for a rockstar admin to work 20-25 hrs/week Mon-Fri. in a fun and creative working environment. Looking for someone who is proactive, reliable and hardworking. If interested please send re-sume and schedule to lclifton@352inc.com.    9-14-15-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  12-9-15-73-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-9-15-
73-15
Horse boarding $375/mo. From GV/UF 10 minutes. Dressage. stadium. X-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout. Rider housing available. Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent. For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm. 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com. Visitors always welcome   10-30-15-69-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgYour roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE DANCE CLASS - CARDIO-A-GO-GOThis Thursday, Sept 10th, 6pmThe Lingerie Co. - 2614 SW 34th St. Calltoday to reserve your spot 352-335-4814    9-10-15-4-21
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
10-24-17-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015
www.alligator.org/sports
Becky Burleigh and the UF 
soccer team are working on staying focused following their victories. Read the story on pg. 14Follow us for updates
Follow us on Twitter at @alligatorsports or online at www.alligator.org/sportsfor updates on UF athletics. By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Florida coach Jim McElwain 
might have an easy-going per-
sonality, but he doesn’t have the 
same mindset when it comes to 
discipline.
The ﬁ  rst-year Florida coach 
has already levied out four sus-
pensions this season — safety 
Duke Dawson for the ﬁ  rst half of the season opener, and defensive lineman Alex McCalister, wide re-ceiver Latroy Pittman and safety 
Marcus Maye for the entire con-
test.
And now, star receiver Demar-
cus Robinson has been dropped to the third team on the depth chart, reportedly for skipping a team meal.
McElwain did not address the 
cause of the demotion directly, but he alluded to it while empha-sizing the importance of doing the little things right.
“It’s about continually taking 
a path and understanding the de-tails to help you be successful,” McElwain said. 
“And that means don’t over-
look missing a meal. That’s im-portant. 
“And yet, sometimes we en-
able people. ‘Oh, that’s OK. Don’t 
worry about it. That’s just him.’ 
Well as soon as we enable that act, then what happens 10, 20, 30 years down the road? So there are lessons to learn in everything 
we do. And in our case, we’ve got 
to detail everything we do to get better.”
McElwain did add that Rob-
inson will play on Saturday and that depth charts shouldn’t be an-alyzed too closely, but it’s clear that a message is being sent.
Throughout his short time at 
Florida’s helm, the coach has continually preached about doing what’s right, on and off the ﬁ  eld.
After a 61-13 rout in his de-
but Saturday, McElwain said he was most proud of the fact that the team played “fast, physical 
but clean,” earning only one pen-
alty in the entire game while not sacriﬁ  cing any aggression in the 
process.That’s the type of attitude he 
wants his team to have off the 
ﬁ  eld, too. 
And while his players appreci-ate that McElwain is a laid back guy in many situations, they un-derstand that addressing bad de-cisions is not one of them.“He doesn’t put up with any-
thing, no matter if you’re the star player or scout team player,” de-
Florida volleyball players capture SEC honors
Florida volleyball players Rhamat Alhassan and Mackenzie Dagostino have 
been honored by the Southeastern Conference for their performances at the VERT challenge. Alhassan was named the SEC Offensive Player of the Week, while Dagostino was named the SEC's Setter of the Week. Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
UF wide receiver Demarcus Robinson runs with the ball during Florida's 61-13 win against New 
Mexico State on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
Florida emphasizing togetherness through discipline
THE GATORS HAVE REPEATEDL Y 
ALTERED THEIR IN-GAME 
FORMATIONS.
By Ryan Summers
Alligator Writer
@RyanSummers18
There is one huge element of the Florida 
Gators soccer team being overlooked. 
The two topics of discussion surround-
ing the team have included coach Becky 
Burleigh’s 15 player freshmen class and the offensive ability of two-time All-American Savannah Jordan. 
What isn’t receiving any attention is the 
defense.
Burleigh said team defense is an impor-
tant part of the game. The Gators need to work together to not only set up the forma-
tion but also dictate the ﬂ  ow of the match. 
The forwards are the ﬁ  rst line of defense 
for the Gators and are important in estab-
lishing how the team will defend. This allows the lines behind them to win 
the ball. 
“I think team defense is just the mental-
ity of everyone, having a team defensive mindset,” Burleigh said. 
“You don’t have to be a defender to de-
fend, everybody can do that. ...We like to think about double-teaming, triple-teaming, anything we can to put the other team un-der pressure.” 
Heading into Thursday night’s home 
game against No. 6 Texas A&M, Burleigh said she doesn’t want to sound like a bro-ken record, but wants to see the team’s de-fense improve. 
“The end goal is to really maximize the 
talent of this group,” Burleigh said. “We’re UF soccer ﬁ  nding success 
through defensive mindsetAIR JORDAN
Jim McElwain didn’t need 
the game ball Saturday.
The 61-13 win against 
New Mexico State to usher in the McElwain 
era of Florida football was great, but once the clock hit 
zero, McElwain already had a 
bigger prize in sight, one that had everything and nothing to do with the game of football.
As he hugged his wife Karen and three 
kids following the victory, none of the in-tricacies of the game mattered.
To McElwain, seeing his family all in 
one place meant the world. To McElwain, 
that was and will always be the most im-
portant victory that came out of his ﬁ  rst game in The Swamp.
“Them being at this ballgame, even 
though they’re all over the country now, 
that was something that was really special 
to Karen and I,” he said Monday.
In a profession that has taken McEl-
wain to all corners of the country over the 
past 30 years — from Eastern Washington and Colorado State to Ala-
bama and now Florida — op-portunities for the whole fam-
ily to be together were not as 
frequent as McElwain desires, especially now that all of his children are out of the house, 
living their own lives.
“You know, we go through 
a lot of things as coaches, 
where we’re not there every 
day for our kids,” he said. “We’re there, 
but maybe not in person.”
On Saturday, they were all in The 
Swamp.
After the celebration of the win ended 
and the craziness began to subside, McEl-
wain reached into his pocket, pulling out ﬁ  ve sticks of gum, each with a name writ-ten on it.
The ﬁ  rst three bore the names of his 
children: Johanna, Elizabeth and Jerrett.
The fourth was for Karen.The ﬁ  fth read the name Frank, for 
McElwain’s father who died in 2009.For McElwain, family comes ﬁ  rst
SEE DEFENSE,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
“I think team defense is just the 
mentality of everyone, having a team 
defensive mindset”
Becky Burleigh
UF soccer coachFour suspensions issued14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015The Associated Press
The Erie County District At-
torney has postponed grand jury 
proceedings into a sexual assault 
allegation against Chicago Black-
hawks star forward Patrick Kane, a person familiar with the inves-
tigation confirmed to The Associ-
ated Press.
Evidence was scheduled to be 
presented to jurors on Tuesday but the hearings were postponed 
for about two weeks, the person 
said.
The person did not provide a 
reason for the postponement, and 
spoke only on condition of ano-
nymity because District Attorney Frank Sedita and Hamburg police have not revealed any details of the case since announcing they 
had launched an investigation 
last month. 
Sedita did not respond to a re-
quest seeking comment.
Kane is accused of sexually assaulting a woman in her 20s at the player’s offseason home overlooking Lake Erie outside of Buffalo, a second person familiar with the investigation told AP, also on the condition of anonym-ity because police have not re-vealed the nature of their inves-tigation.
Kane has not been charged. 
The Buffalo News first reported the postponement earlier in the 
day.
In his only public comments, 
Hamburg Police Chief Gregory 
Wickett said last month that the investigation involved some-
thing that may have happened at 
Kane’s home outside of Buffalo on Aug. 2. 
Wickett said police were gath-
ering information and awaiting results of forensic tests.
Last month, a Freedom of In-
formation Act request made by The AP to obtain information re-
garding the investigation was de-
nied by Hamburg police because the investigation was still being conducted.
The latest development comes 
less than two weeks before the Stanley Cup champion Black-hawks open training camp on Sept. 18.The NHL is aware of and mon-
itoring the investigation but has not taken any disciplinary ac-tion against Kane, an eight-time 
20 goal-scorer and one of the 
league’s most recognized players.
Kane is from Buffalo and was 
selected by Chicago with the No. 1 pick in the 2007 draft. 
He has since helped the Black-
hawks win three Stanley Cup titles in six years, including this past June, when Chicago defeated 
Tampa Bay in a six-game series.
The alleged assault occurred a 
week before Kane was scheduled 
to host the Cup. 
As a result of the investigation, 
Kane canceled plans to parade the trophy around Buffalo.
 He instead held a private par-
ty at his home.
Last month, the police inves-
tigation prompted EA Sports to drop Kane from promoting and appearing on the cover its NHL 16 video game.By Kyle Brutman
Alligator Writer
@KBrut13
Following last week’s introduction of 
the orange oar, symbolizing that the team 
needs to “row” together to move forward, 
Florida soccer coach Becky Burleigh in-
troduced another motivational prop this week.This time, she presented a wilted flower.
After an upset victory at home over 
then-No. 1 Florida State on Aug. 30, Bur-leigh gave each player a yellow rose.
After a short amount of time, the flow-
ers will wilt.
Burleigh used this process to teach the 
No. 10 Gators a lesson about the fleeting 
nature of a win.
“When that rose starts to wilt, it’s time for us to really get back to work and get 
focused.” Burleigh said.
The UF head coach said she got the idea 
of using the flower as a symbol from Anson 
Dorrance, who, like Burleigh — Florida’s 
coach for 21 years — has been coaching his 
program for the entirety of its existence, as 
he enters his 37th year as the coach of the 
North Carolina Tar Heels.
Burleigh said when she asked the team if they work harder after a win or a loss, 
they said the latter because the players un-
derstood there was something that needed 
to be fixed.
That has been the case for the Gators 
the past three years.
Since the start of the 2012 season, Flor-
ida has lost two games in a row just twice, 
and both times the Gators bounced back 
with winning streaks of nine and three 
games, respectively.
But big wins, like the one against the 
Seminoles, can have consequences.
“Having a win in a big game can be det-
rimental to your progress.” Burleigh said.
The Gators lost focus early on against 
Oklahoma State, giving up a goal to the Cowgirls just two minutes into the contest.
But Florida was resilient. UF eventually won the game 3-2 in 
overtime on the heels of a brace by Brooke 
Sharp. 
Her second goal served as the game-
winner, coming with less than 20 seconds 
left in the first overtime period.
While winning the game is an incentive 
in itself, Gators assistant coach Alan Kirk-up has a system in place to reward players who contribute to the game.
Kirkup calls it his “gold star list.”Players earn gold stars by playing a role 
in the build-up of goals.
Although junior forward Savannah Jor-
dan, arguably the team’s best goal scorer, did not get a goal or an assist last game, 
Burleigh said Jordan received gold stars for 
her role in the creation of goal-scoring op-
portunities.
Even redshirt junior goalkeeper Valerie 
Tysinger earned a spot on the list, doing so with key saves throughout the match.
Burleigh sees the gold stars as a form of 
thanks to everyone involved in an impact 
play, even if some of those players don’t 
end up making it into the box score.
“It’s kind of a unique way to recognize 
the contribution of people,” Burleigh said 
“despite the fact that it might not show up on a stat sheet.”
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh puts her arm around defender Rachelle Smith (81) following Florida’s 3-2 win against 
Florida State on Aug. 30 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
AP Photo
Chicago Blackhawks right wing Patrick Kane celebrates after scoring a goal in Game 2 of an NHL Western Conference playoff series.
Gators working on staying focused following victoriesSOCCER
Grand jury proceeding in Patrick Kane case postponednowhere near that, which is a good 
thing. But I think for us it’s about taking little steps forward everyday 
whether it’s in training or whether 
it’s in games.”
Senior defender Claire Falknor 
thinks the country as a whole has 
so much interest in accumulating 
scoring and points on the final stat sheet that the importance of de-fense is easily overlooked.
“I just feel like we live in a so-
ciety, or at least the United States, 
we focus on like football it’s about 
scoring and other sports like bas-ketball it’s all about the high scor-ing,” Falknor said. 
“I even ask people like my 
friends, ‘Why don’t you like soc-cer?’ They’re just like ‘well there’s not much scoring and it’s boring.’” 
Falknor said the team has been 
working on a total defensive effort instead of relying solely on those playing defensive positions. 
“I think it’s crucial that ev-
eryone plays a role in defense,” Falknor said. 
“Even though it doesn’t get re-
warded in social media and like in-
terviews are all about the offense, I 
think defense is a key.”
With senior defensive midfield-er Lauren Smith making her season debut last Friday against Oklahoma State, Falknor was able to push the 
ball into an attacking position — a 
crucial element of Florida’s offense. “I feel confident back there, 
she knows what she’s doing and it helps,” Falknor said. 
“Especially when we play the 
3-5-2 it allows me to go forward which I love because I was recruit-ed as a forward and would like to go back to my roots.” 
Burleigh said switching between 
formations has demonstrated the depth of the team and its fluidity in all three systems. 
It’s something that has stuck 
out to her about the team through the first three weeks of the season.
Junior midfielder Liz Slattery is 
right in the middle of those forma-
tion changes and noted that being 
comfortable during transitions is one of the most important aspects of being a midfielder.
“Usually when we change for-
mations it’s right in the middle of the game,” Slattery said. 
“Most of the changing is hap-
pening in the midfield and so mak-ing sure that each player knows 
their role in the middle of the field 
and knows where to go and how to work with each other in each dif-ferent system is important.”
The Gators’ team defense will be 
tested Thursday night when they take on the reigning Southeastern Conference champs in Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium. 
“Every single time we play Tex-
as A&M it’s always going to be a 
battle, kind of how FSU is,” Slat-tery said. 
“I think they’re our biggest ri-
vals in the SEC so every single time we play them we want to bring our best and make sure they bring their 
best.” “Just wish he could’ve been here to see 
it,” McElwain said, his voice starting to break after a brief pause.
It’s a tradition McElwain has held since 
his oldest daughter Johanna was born and 
he was serving as the quarterbacks and 
wide receivers coach at Eastern Washing-
ton.
Holding on to those sticks of gum each 
game symbolizes the strength and close-ness of his family regardless of the physi-
cal distance that might separate them. 
No matter what happens, his family is 
always with him.
“It’s me remembering every day, when 
we go into those games, writing their 
names on a stick of gum ... why I do this,” he said. 
“Hopefully, (it) has helped them know 
I do this for them.”
But on Saturday, his whole family was 
together again, embracing the win and the time spent together.
That’s all McElwain could ask for.
And while fans will remember McEl-
wain’s UF debut for what happened on 
the field — the energized offense, the 61 points, the blasts of fireworks that lit up The Swamp after each of Florida’s eight 
touchdowns — it all takes a back seat in 
McElwain’s eyes.
The win was great, but family comes 
first.
And after each game, regardless of the 
outcome, McElwain will pull out those five sticks of gum and share a moment with his family.
With his wife and kids by his side, 
McElwain will always feel like a winner.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015   ALLIGATOR   15  
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain and his wife Karen embrace following UF's 61-13 win 
against New Mexico State on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida senior defender Claire Falknor runs after the ball during UF's 3-2 overtime win against Oklahoma State on Friday at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
fensive lineman Bryan Cox, Jr., said. 
“If you violate the team rules, you’re not going to play 
or you’re not going to start at least. He’s right in what he 
does.” 
McElwain wants his players to make the right choice 
for themselves rather than be told what to do and blindly 
follow orders. 
“His whole thing is you have freedom of choice but not 
freedom of consequence,” Cox added. 
“So he’s not mad, but obviously you made that deci-
sion or whatever decision you had. If it was wrong, you 
don’t have the choice of what the punishment is going to be.”
McElwain talked about the same philosophy when he 
addressed Maye’s first-half suspension against New Mex-ico State.
“It was his choice,” he said about the redshirt junior’s 
undisclosed violation of team rules. 
“I mean, right? So, we all have choices, right? So, and 
that’s the case in everything that you do. Nothing against him, he’s a good player.” 
But like Cox said, even good players have to answer for 
their decisions under McElwain.FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Dawson was held 
out of first half for missing a meeting
DEFENSE,  from pg 13Gators have used halftime adjustments to puzzle opponentsCOLUMN,  from pg 13
“His whole thing is you have freedom of choice but not 
freedom of consequence. So he's not mad, but obviously 
you made that decision.”
Bryan Cox, Jr. 
UF defensive lineman 16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2015
